A partly submerged glacier cave on Perito मोरेनो Glacier.
The ice facade is लगभग 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis glacier cave
A हिमानी गुफा is a cave formed within the ice of a glacier.
Glacier caves are often called ice caves, but this term is properly used to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice.
In physics, circular motion is a movement of an object साथ the परिधि of a circle or rotation along a circular path.
It can be uniform, with constant angular rate of rotation ( and निरंतर speed ), or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation.
the रोटेशन around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its parts.
the equations of गति describe the गति of the बीच of द्रव्यमान of a body.
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height, a stone which is tied to a rope and is being swung in circles, a car turning through a curve in a race track, an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field, and a gear turning inside a mechanism.
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction, the moving object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal फ़ोर्स in the direction of the center of rotation.
Without this acceleration, the object would move in a straight line, according to Newton 's laws of motion.
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World.
he थी निभाई by कार्ल weathers.
Creed had अनेक nicknames, सहित The Master of Disaster, The King of Sting, The Dancing Destroyer, The Prince of Punch, The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto.
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed, a बयान of belief used in Christian churches.
All of Apollo 's championship fights were scheduled for the 15 round distance.
चैंपियनशिप fights did not convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987.
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red, white, and blue trunks ; पंथ थी the पहला man to पहनें them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white, as seen in Rocky II.
Balboa 's signature colors were black and gold—colors he used in the latest movie.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in Article II of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter, acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, and district judges of the United States district courts.
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the संघीय government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` संघीय judges '' ; however, they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate, and their power derives from Article I instead.
See Article I and Article III tribunals.
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by beretta in Italy.
Production began in late 1984, solely in the Beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek, मेरीलैंड.
It is a further विकास of the Beretta Model 20, whose production ended in 1985.
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of life insurance that builds a cash value.
In a VUL, the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate accounts, similar to mutual funds, and the चुनाव of जिससे of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner.
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose values vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets.
The 'universal ' घटक in the नाम refers to the लचीलापन the मालिक रै in बनाना प्रीमियम भुगतान.
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums पारिभाषित by the Internal Revenue Code for life insurance.
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan feature, or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ).
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance, because the death benefit will be paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy.
साथ सबसे if नहीं सब vuls, नापसंद पूरे जीवन, वहीँ is no endowment आयु ( the आयु at जिससे the नकदी मान बराबरी the मौत लाभ राशि, जिससे लिये पूरे जीवन is typically 100 ).
This is yet another कुंजी advantage of VUL over Whole Life.
With a typical whole life policy, the death लाभ is सीमित to the face amount specified in the policy, and at endowment age, the face amount is all that is paid out.
Thus with either death or endowment, the insurance company keeps any cash value built up over the years.
However, some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time.
If investments made in the पृथक accounts out-perform the general account of the insurance company, a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life.
The combination over the years of no endowment age, continually increasing death benefit, and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy, this could result in higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums.
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to interior buildings.
A mound of Girl Scout कुकीज़.
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as एक of इसके प्रमुख fundraisers for local Scout units.
Members of the GSUSA have महरूम selling cookies since 1917 to raise funds.
Girls who participate can earn prizes for their efforts.
There are also unit प्रोत्साहन if the unit as a whole does well.
As of 2007, बिक्री यहूद अनुमानित at परिचय 200 लाख बाक्स प्रति साल.
University Hall
Purdue University, located in West Lafayette, Indiana, is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system.
Purdue was founded on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly, taking advantage of the Morrill अधिनियम, स्वीकृत a दान of जमीन and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science, technology, and agriculture in his name.
The first classes were held on September 16, 1874, with six instructors and 39 students.
Today, Purdue is a member of the Big Ten Conference, and is a well known world-class research institution.
purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the fourth largest international student population of any university in the United States.
Purdue offers both undergraduate and ग्रैजुएट कार्यक्रम in over 211 प्रमुख क्षेत्रों of study, and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula.
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation, having established the first college credit offered in flight training, the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation, and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ).
Purdue 's aviation प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम remains one of the most competitive aviation-specific programs in the world.
In the mid-20th century, Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving rise to Purdue 's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts, including Gus Grissom ( one of the असली पारा सात astronauts ), neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ), and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles, by definition, neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst.
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, white, semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is not sebum, but keratin.
Furthermore, under the microscope neither entity contains sebaceous glands.
in अभ्यास, however, the terms are often used interchangeably.
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or, if multiple, as steatocystoma multiplex.
Modern pointe जूते.
The edge of the toe pad, which is inserted between the foot और toe box for cushioning, can be seen on the right foot.
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when performing pointe work.
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time.
They are normally worn by female dancers, though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella, Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's सपना, or मेन performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva.
They are manufactured in a variety of colors, सबसे commonly in shades of light pink.
This tablespoon has a capacity of about 15 ml.
Measuring spoons
In the US and भाग of कनाडा, a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl.
In the UK, Europe and most Commonwealth countries, a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving.
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon, the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the मिठाई चमचा or the soup spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the capacity of one tablespoon, is commonly used as a माप of volume in cooking.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation.
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL.
In Australia one tablespoon ( मापन unit ) is 20 mL.
Harry कुम्हार is a series of seven fantasy novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling.
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard, Harry Potter, and his friends Ronald Weasley and Hermione ग्रेंजर, सब of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The main story चाप चिंताएं Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort, whose aims are to become immortal, conquer the wizarding world, subjugate non-magical people, and destroy all those who stand in his way, especially Harry Potter.
चूंकि the रिलीज of the पहला अनोखा हैरी कुम्हार और the पारस 's स्टोन on 30 जून 1997, the किताबे have gained immense लोकप्रियता, नाजुक acclaim और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी विश्वव्यापी.
The श्रेणी रै also had some share of criticism, including concern for the increasingly dark tone.
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies, making it the best-selling book series in history, and has been अनूदित into 67 भाषाएं.
The last four books consecutively नियत रिकॉर्ड as the fastest-selling books in history.
A series of many genres, सहित fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery, thriller, adventure, and romance ), it has many cultural meanings and references.
According to Rowling, the main थीम is death.
There are also many अन्य themes in the series, such as prejudice and corruption.
The initial major प्रकाशक of the books were Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States.
The books have since been published by many publishers worldwide.
The books, with the seventh book split into two parts, have been made into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of all time.
The श्रेणी also originated much tie-in merchandise, making the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion.
Also due to the success of the books and films, Harry Potter has been used for a theme park, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of एडवेंचर.
RS-68 being tested at NASA 's Stennis Space Center.
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants, hydrogen and oxygen )
viking 5C rocket engine
A rocket engine, or simply `` rocket '', is a jet engine that uses only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet.
प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन हैं प्रतिक्रिया इंजन और obtain thrust in accordance साथ न्यूटन 's तीसरा विधि.
Since they need no external material to form their jet, rocket engines can be used for spacecraft propulsion as well as स्थलीय uses, such as missiles.
Most rocket engines are internal combustion engines, हालांकि non-combusting forms also exist.
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities, are by far the lightest, but are the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a song by American recording artist Britney Spears.
It served as Spears 's डेब्यू single and title track from her debut studio album,... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ).
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami, ``... Baby One More समय '' थी released on September 30, 1998, by Jive Records.
After recording and sending a demo tape with an unused song from Toni Braxton, Spears signed a multi-album deal साथ jive.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop song that refers to a girl who regrets breaking up साथ उसके boyfriend.
the सोंग प्राप्त generally favorable reviews from critics, who praised its composition.
``... Baby One More Time '' attained global success, reaching number one in every country it charted.
It also received numerous certifications around the world, and is one of the best-selling singles of all time, with over 10 million copies sold.
An accompanying music video, निर्देशित by Nigel Dick, portrays Spears as a student from a Catholic high school, who starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the school, while watching her love interest from afar.
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ), where Spears 's fictional बेटी is वेश साथ a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her hair.
In 2010, the music video for ``... Baby One More Time '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music, in a poll held by Jam !.
Spears has performed ``... baby एक अधिक समय '' in a number of live appearances and in all of her concert tours.
It was the encore of the... baby एक अधिक समय दौरे ( 1999 ) और सपना भीतर a सपना दौरे ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स भी performed remixed संस्करण of the सोंग दौरान the उफ़ !...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ), The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ), The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ), The Circus Starring britney स्पीयर्स ( 2009 ), and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ).
``... Baby एक अधिक समय '' थी मनोनीत for a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, and has been included in lists by Blender, Rolling Stone and VH1.
It has been noted for redefining the sound of late 1990s music.
Spears has named ``... Baby One More Time '' as one of her पसंदीदा गीतों from her career.
It was also the final song to be played on the बीबीसी 's music programme Top of the Pops.
Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
The main लक्षण are watery diarrhea and vomiting.
हस्तांतरण occurs primarily by पीने जल or खाने खाना कि रै महरूम contaminated by the मल ( बर्बाद उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित व्यक्ति, सहित एक साथ no apparent लक्षण.
The severity of the अतिसार and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte imbalance, and death in some cases.
The प्राथमिक उपचार is oral rehydration therapy, typically with oral rehydration solution, to replace water and electrolytes.
If this is not tolerated or does not provide improvement fast enough, intravenous fluids can also be used.
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with severe disease to shorten इसके अवधि और गंभीरता.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 million people and causes 100,000–130,000 मौतों a year.
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological विधि.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar वाइल्ड, appearing as the lead story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890, printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine.
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as submitted, so they censored roughly 500 words, without Wilde 's knowledge, before publication.
But even साथ कि, the स्टोरी थी स्टिल greeted साथ आक्रोश by अंग्रेजों reviewers, कुछ of जिसको सुझाया कि वाइल्ड चाहिए be prosecuted on moral grounds, अग्रणी वाइल्ड to बचाव the अनोखा aggressively in अक्षर to the अंग्रेजों दबायें.
Wilde later revised the story for book publication, making substantial alterations, deleting controversial passages, adding नई अध्याय और सहित an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right.
The amended version was published by Ward, Lock and कम्पनी in अप्रैल 1891.
Some scholars believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a यंग man named Dorian Gray, the subject of a painting by artist Basil Hallward.
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him, believing his सौंदर्य is responsible for a new mode in his art.
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton, a friend of Basil 's, and becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view.
espousing a नई hedonism, रब हेनरी suggests the तभी बाते लायक pursuing in जीवन हैं सौंदर्य और fulfilment of the होश.
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade, Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell his soul to ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he.
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery, the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each act has upon his soul, with each sin प्रदर्शित as a disfigurement of his form, or through a sign of aging.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a work of क्लासिक गोथिक fiction with a strong Faustian theme.
Sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ), known as Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ), is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies, on Broadway, and occasionally on टेलीविज़न.
गैबर was also a socialite.
She began her stage career in Vienna at age 15, and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936.
वो emigrated to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1941 और became a sought-after अभिनेत्री साथ `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर और स्टाइल '', साथ a व्यक्तित्व कि `` exuded charm and grace ''.
Her first फिल्म भूमिका was as supporting actress in Lovely to Look At.
She later acted in we 're Not Married !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ), directed by John Huston, who described उसके as a `` creditable '' actress.
Besides her film and television appearances, she is best known for having nine husbands, including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders.
She once stated, `` Men have always liked me और I have always liked men.
But I like a mannish man, a man who knows how to talk to and treat a woman – not just a man with muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial artist, actor, martial arts instructor, philosopher, and फिल्मकार.
The founder of Jeet Kune Do, Lee was the son of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely considered by commentators, critics, मीडिया और अन्य martial कलाकारों to be one of the most influential martial artists of all time, and a pop culture icon of the 20th century.
He is often credited with helping to change the way Asians were presented in American films.
Lee was born in चाइनाटाउन, सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 November 1940 to parents from Hong Kong and was raised in Kowloon with his family until his late teens.
He was introduced to the film industry by उसके father and appeared in several films as a child actor.
Lee moved to the संयुक्त राज्य at the आयु of 18 to receive his higher education, and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts.
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a new level of popularity and acclaim, sparking a surge of interest in चाइनीज martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong Kong and the rest of the world.
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ), directed and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ), both directed by Robert Clouse.
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world, विशेषकर among the Chinese, as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films.
he initially प्रशिक्षित in wing chun, लकिन बाद अस्वीकृत well-defined martial आर्ट शैलियाँ, favouring बजाय the उपयोग of तकनीकों इससे विभिन्न स्त्रोत, in the स्पिरिट of उसके निजी martial कला दर्शनशास्त्र, जिससे he उतावले जीत kune do ( the रास्ता of the Intercepting Fist ).
Lee held डुअल citizenship of Hong Kong and the United States.
He died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32.
दीर्घकालिक obstructive pulmonary बीमारी ( copd ), भी ज्ञात as दीर्घकालिक obstructive फेफड़ों बीमारी ( ठंडा ), दीर्घकालिक obstructive airway बीमारी ( coad ), दीर्घकालिक airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) और दीर्घकालिक obstructive respiratory बीमारी ( cord ), is the occurrence of दीर्घकालिक ब्रोंकाइटिस or emphysema, a जोड़ी of commonly co-existing रोगों of the फेफड़े in जिससे the एयरवेज़ सीमित over समय.
This limits airflow to and from the lungs, causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ).
In clinical practice, COPD is defined by its characteristically कम airflow on lung function tests.
In contrast to asthma, this limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively worse over time.
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas, most commonly from tobacco smoking, which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung.
The diagnosis of COPD requires lung function tests.
Important management strategies are smoking cessation, vaccinations, rehabilitation, and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ).
Some patients go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung प्रत्यारोपण.
Worldwide, COPD ranked as the sixth अग्रणी कारण of death in 1990.
It is projected to become the fourth leading cause of death worldwide by 2030, due to an increase in धूम्रपान rates and demographic changes in many countries.
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S., and the economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity.
Annelies `` ऐनी '' मारी फ़्रैंक (, ?, ; 12 जून 1929early कूच 1945 ) is एक of the सबसे discussed यहूदी पीड़ितों of the holocaust.
Her diary has been the basis for several plays and films.
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany, she lived most of her life in or near एम्सटर्डम, in the नीदरलैंड्स.
Born a German national, Frank lost her citizenship in 1941.
She gained international fame मरणोपरांत after her diary was published.
it दस्तावेज़ उसके अनुभवों छुपाना दौरान the जर्मनी occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स in संसार युद्ध ii.
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933, the year the Nazis gained कंट्रोल over Germany.
By the beginning of 1940, they were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands.
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942, the family went into hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father, Otto फ़्रैंक 's, दफ्तर भवन.
After two years, the group was betrayed and transported to concentration शिविरों.
Anne Frank and her sister, Margot, were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where they died of typhus in March 1945.
Otto Frank, the only survivor of the family, returned to Amsterdam after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved, and his efforts led to its publication in 1947.
It was translated from its original Dutch and first published in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young लड़की.
It has since महरूम translated into many languages.
The diary, which was given to Anne on her 13th birthday, chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944.
Kurt 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( फ़रवरी 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) was an American musician and artist, best known as the lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
कोबेन formed निर्वाण साथ krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene, having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of Nevermind, Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often subject to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its फाइनल स्टुडियो album In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled with heroin addiction, illness and अवसाद.
He also had difficulty coping with his कीर्ति and public image, and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife, musician Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at उसके घर in सिएटल, the शिकार of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The circumstances of his मौत at आयु 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
Since their debut, Nirvana, with Cobain as a songwriter, has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 million विश्वव्यापी.
Radial इंजन timing and cam mechanism.
Click for full resolution एनिमेशन.
Radial इंजन of a biplane
Master rod ( upright ), slaves and balances from a two-row, fourteen-cylinder pratt & व्हिटनी Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel.
It resembles a stylized star जब viewed इससे the सामने, and is called a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages.
The radial configuration was very commonly प्रयुक्त in वायुयान इंजन before turbine engines became predominant.
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom, created by Susan Harris, that originally aired on NBC from September 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
Starring Bea Arthur, Betty White, Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty, the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami, Florida.
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions, in association with Touchstone Television, and Paul Junger Witt, Tony Thomas, और हैरिस परोसा as the original executive producers.
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards, including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice.
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy.
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the series ' run and had multiple nominations.
The श्रेणी भी ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of its seven seasons.
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas खोजी और उत्पादन in depths of more than 500 feet.
By this definition, there are approximately 600 deepwater कुएं in the Gulf of Mexico.
it रै महरूम economically infeasible लिये अनेक सालो, लकिन साथ उठती आयल कीमतें, अधिक कंपनियाँ हैं निवेश in इस क्षेत्रफल.
Major companies working in this sector include Diamond Offshore, TransOcean, and Baker Hughes.
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs और drillships.
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a फ्लोटिंग spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform.
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not सब आयल is accessible on जमीन or in उथले जल.
You can find some आयल deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.”... Using sonic equipment, oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil.
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling unit ( मोदू ) to dig the initial well.
Some units are converted into production rigs, meaning they switch from drilling for oil to capturing oil once it 's मिला.
Most of the time, the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rig to capture oil.”... The MODU 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits.
The भाग of the ड्रिल that extends below the deck and through the water is called the riser.
The riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the floor and the rig.
Engineers lower a ड्रिल स्ट्रिंग -- a series of pipes designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater खुदाई ट्रेंड is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“the कारण for the resumption of such drilling, analyst say, is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come with deepwater drilling in order for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives.
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would विस्तार इससे इसके 2011 स्तर of 1.3 million barrels a day, still nearly a quarter of total domestic production, to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater drilling affects the environment in both ऋणात्मक and positive ways.
हालांकि Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is still a hazardous possible outcome.
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering संयंत्र जीवन leaving मछली without food and shelter to survive.
On the other hand deepwater drilling effects the environment in a धनात्मक ways too.
in समय एकबार the deepwater आयल खूब is नहीं in उपयोग anymore पौधे होगा grow on और around the खूब बनाना a गुफा or cavern जैसे आश्रय आदर्श लिये पशु to thrive in.
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the depths of the ocean मंजिल that are hardly ever seen.
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of rare fish that are in there natural habitat, giving वैज्ञानिक a dekh at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ). ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President विधेयक Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra,, ( December 12, 1915 – May 14, 1998 ) was an American singer and film actor.
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey, Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943.
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released his first album, The Voice of फ़्रैंक Sinatra in 1946.
His पेशेवर करियर था stalled by the 1950s, लकिन it थी पुनर्जन्म in 1953 बाद he जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting कर्ता लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in इससे यहाँ to शाश्वत.
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small घंटों, Songs for Swingin ' Lovers !, Come Fly with Me, Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ).
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label, Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !, Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ), toured internationally, was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen, including John F. Kennedy.
सिनात्रा turned 50 in 1965, अंकित the retrospective सितंबर of my सालो, स्ट्रक्चर in the एमी -winning टेलीविज़न खास फ़्रैंक सिनात्रा : a man और उसके म्यूज़िक, और scored हिट्स साथ `` अजनबी in the रात्रि `` और `` my रास्ता ``.
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in several poorly received films, Sinatra रिटायर्ड for the first time in 1971.
Two years later, however, he came out of retirement and in 1973 recorded several albums, scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York, New York `` in 1980.
using उसके लास वेगास shows as a घर आधार, he toured दोनो भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और internationally, जबतक a छोटी समय before his death in 1998.
Sinatra also forged a highly successful career as a film कर्ता.
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953, he also garnered a nomination for Best Actor for The Man with the Golden Arm, and critical acclaim for his performance in The Manchurian Candidate.
He also starred in such musicals as High Society, Pal Joey, यारों and Dolls and On the Town.
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997.
He was the प्राप्तकर्ता of eleven Grammy Awards, including the Grammy Trustees Award, Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling artists of all time, having sold more than 150 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
ठेठ cornhole board
Cornhole, also known as bean bag toss, corn toss, baggo or bags, is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at a raised platform साथ a छेद in the far end.
A bag in the hole scores 3 points, while one on the platform scores 1 point.
Play continues until a team or player reaches the स्कोर of 21.
The American Gold Eagle is an official gold bullion सिक्का of the United States.
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985, it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986.
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s.
All Bikram योग वर्ग run for 90 minutes and consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises.
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to 105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 %,.
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor, comedian and rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101.
Massey रै received many awards and nomination including a Young Artist Award and Emmy Awards nominations.
He is also known for appearing in several commercials in the early 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon made of stainless steel.
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument, as well as a unit of मापन of volume in some countries and customs.
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the वनस्पति समूह ज्ञात as pteridophyta.
नापसंद mosses, they have xylem and phloem ( making them vascular plants ).
They have stems, leaves, and roots like other vascular plants.
Ferns reproduce via बीजाणुओं और have neither seeds nor flowers.
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, but ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( see classification section below ).
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the जल्दी cretaceous ( बाद flowering plants came to dominate many environments ).
Ferns are not of प्रमुख आर्थिक importance, but some are grown or gathered for food, as ornamental plants, for remediating contaminated soils, and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air.
Some are significant weeds.
They also play a भूमिका in mythology, medicine, and art.
Flat roofs in Israel
Flat roof in लॉस Angeles
A flat roof is a type of covering for a भवन.
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof, a flat roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases, so the pitch is said to increase ).
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually known as a membrane and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system.
जल इससे कुछ चपटा roofs ऐसे as on गार्डन sheds sometimes बहती freely बंद the किनारे of a छत, हालांकि gutter प्रणालियों हैं of लाभ in keeping दोनो दीवारें और मूलाधार शुष्क.
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the ground, or better, into a specially made soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area.
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool, usually for aesthetic उद्देश्य, or for rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs exist all over the world and each area has its own tradition or preference for materials used.
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur, many flat roofs are simply built of masonry or concrete and this is good at keeping आउट the ऊष्मा of the सूर्य और सस्ती and easy to build where timber is not readily available.
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak, or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of बर्फ as it फ़ॉर्म ) ये roofs हैं नहीं उपयुक्त.
Traditionally most flat roofs in the western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat, UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it इससे cracking or blistering and degradation.
छत अलंकार is usually of plywood, chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board, also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness.
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid, heated in a tar kettle, or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' चिपके down and sealed together at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled, the gravel is spread evenly over it.
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing, thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in.
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar.
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands, tarpaper variants are produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection.
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results.
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them, however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable.
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability.
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it.
This can lead to expensive damage from the rot which प्रायः develops और if बाएँ can weaken the roof structure.
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point.
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen.
Thus it is not easy to see where it is leaking in order to repair it.
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further संग्रहण or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact disc which contains data.
The name is an acronym which stands for `` कॉम्पैक्ट Disc Read-only memory ``.
Computers can read CD-ROMs, but can not write on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer तन्त्र, सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया applications, though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player, while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats, the Yellow Book, created by Sony and Philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the format to hold any form of data.
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 July 1965 ), pen name J. K. रोलिंग, is a British novelist, best known as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series.
The Potter किताबे have gained worldwide attention, won multiple awards, and sold more than 400 million copies.
They have become the best-selling book series in history, and been the basis for a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history.
रोलिंग था overall approval on the scripts as well as maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment.
Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, Rowling थी working as a शोधकर्ता and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990.
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother, divorce from her first husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the last, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to the series.
In 2012, Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the रूप of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership, entitled The Casual Vacancy.
Rowling has said she is फिलहाल working on दो books—one aimed for adults, the other for children younger than the Harry Potter audience, and she expects the latter to be published first.
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story, in which she progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status within five years.
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling author since records began, with sales in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at £560 million ( $ 798 million ), ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom.
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007, and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up for its 2007 व्यक्ति of the साल, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fans.
In October 2010, Rowling was named the `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine सम्पादक.
She has become a notable philanthropist, supporting such charities as Comic Relief, One Parent Families, Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ).
Auburndale is a city in polk County, Florida, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,032 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005, the नगर था a population of 12,381.
it is part of the Lakeland – Winter Haven Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space स्टेशन.
The eye, eyewall, and surrounding rainbands, विशेषताएँ of tropical cyclones, are clearly visible in this view from space.
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain.
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water काफूर इससे the ocean is released as the saturated air rises, resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air.
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters, European windstorms, and polar lows.
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at any height in the atmosphere, the center of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems.
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems, which usually form in tropical regions of the globe, and to their formation in maritime tropical air masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature, with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere.
The opposite direction of the wind flow is a result of the Coriolis force.
Depending on its location and strength, a tropical cyclone is referred to by names ऐसे as hurricane (, ), typhoon ( ), tropical storm, cyclonic storm, tropical depression, and simply cyclone.
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely शक्तिशाली winds and torrential rain, they are also able to produce high waves, damaging storm surge, and tornadoes.
They develop over large bodies of warm water, and lose their strength if they move over land due to increased सतह घर्षण and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source.
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone, while inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can produce significant बाढ़ inland, and storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to from the coastline.
Although their effects on human populations can be विनाशकारी, tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions.
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes, which makes them an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism.
As a result, tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the Earth 's troposphere, and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide.
Many tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a weak disturbance in the माहौल हैं अनुकूल.
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles और पैटर्न such as the Madden-Julian oscillation, El Niño-Southern Oscillation, and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation.
Others form when other types of cyclones acquire tropical विशेषताएँ.
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable, the tropical disturbance intensifies, and can even develop an eye.
On the other end of the spectrum, if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall, the system weakens and eventually dissipates.
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of ये systems with current technology.
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; December 9, 1916 ) is an American stage and film actor, film producer and author.
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ), Champion ( 1949 ), Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ), The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ), 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ), Lust for Life ( 1956 ), Paths of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the O.K. Corral ( 1957 ), The Vikings ( 1958 ), Spartacus ( 1960 ), Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ), Seven Days in May ( 1964 ), The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ).
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American screen legends of all time, making him the highest-ranked living person on the list.
In 1996, he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a creative and moral force in the motion picture जातियाँ. ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from हॉलीवुड 's `` golden age ''.
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6, 1945 ) is an अमरीकी चट्टान और फेंकें singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist, he performed and recorded as Bob Seger and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s.
By the early 1970s, he had dropped the `` System '' इससे his recordings and continued to strive for broader success with other various bands.
In 1973, he put together The Silver Bullet Band, a group of Detroit-area musicians, with whom he became most successful on the national level with the album Live Bullet, recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit, Michigan.
In 1976, he achieved a national ब्रेकआउट साथ the स्टुडियो album Night Moves.
On his studio albums, he also worked extensively with the alabama-based मांसपेशी Shoals Rhythm Section, which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
A roots rocker with a classic raspy, shouting voice, Seger wrote and recorded songs that dealt with love, women, blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock.
Seger has recorded many hits, including `` Night Moves, '' `` Turn the पेज, '' `` We 've Got Tonight, '' `` Against the Wind, '' and Shakedown that was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock, '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time Rock and Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001.
साथ a करियर spanning पाँच दशकों, seger continues to perform और रिकार्ड आज.
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in Yorba Linda, California.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat Nixon, moved to Washington to work for the federal government in 1942.
He subsequently served in the United राज्य Navy during World War II.
Nixon was elected in California to the House of Representatives in 1946 और to the सीनेट in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, and elevated him to national prominence.
he थी the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served लिये eight years as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy, and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he भागा again for the presidency and was elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the वियतनाम War, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations, and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
domestically, उसके प्रशासन generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred शक्ति इससे वॉशिंगटन to the राज्य.
Among other things, he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs, imposed wage and price controls, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
हालांकि he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
He was re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of his vice president, Spiro Agnew, and a continuing series of खुलासे about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office.
After his resignation, he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
in रिटायरमेंट, निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking अनेक विदेशी यात्राएँ, helped to rehabilitate उसके पब्लिक चित्र.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, and died four days later at the age of 81.
{ { infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused कड़वा contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner.
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner, opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti, became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty, and that men close to the president shared in the corruption.
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from सहायक Secretary of State, Bancroft Davis, that U.S. Naval ships were being used to protect President Báez.
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. Sumner’s suggestion and quite possibly to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session.
President Grant persisted and sent messages to Congress in favor of annexation on March 14, 1870, and May 31, 1870.
In closed session, Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals, noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island, and the risk that the independence of Haiti, recognized by the United States in 1862, would be lost.
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a protectorate was a violation of अंतरराष्ट्रीय law and unconstitutional.
Finally, on June 30, 1870 the treaty थी voted on by the Senate and failed to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage.
The following day, President Grant, feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley, Ambassador to Britain.
By autumn, Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was पब्लिक ज्ञान, और he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned, rather than let Grant have his way.
The two men, friends until then, cooled into bitter enemies.
In December, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow, Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation और babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, President Grant, समर्थित by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, had initiated a campaign to depose Sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '', in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt, Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act, blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury, and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go.
Grant resented Sumner 's superiority of manner, as well.
बताई एकबार कि sumner किया नहीं मानना in the बाइबल, the अध्यक्ष is supposed to have कहा कि he थी नहीं चकित : `` he किया n't लिखें it. ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased, Sumner’s health began to decline.
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4, 1871, Senators affiliated with President Grant, known as ‘’New Radicals’’ voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship.
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment.
It applies to all पहलुओं of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations.
Business ethics has both normative और descriptive dimensions.
As a कॉरपोरेट अभ्यास and a career specialization, the field is primarily normative.
Academics attempting to understand business behavior employ descriptive methods.
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.
ब्याज in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, both within major corporations and within academia.
लिये example, today most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters.
Adam Smith said, `` People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the वार्तालाप ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices. ''
सरकारें उपयोग कानून और regulations to पाइंट कारोबार बर्ताव in कया वे perceive to be फायदेमंद दिशानिर्देश.
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control.
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes.
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat, electricity, रसायन, friction, or radiation.
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ).
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues, such as muscle or अस्थि can be injured in which case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree.
The treatment required depends on the severity of the burn.
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while major burns may require prolonged उपचार in specialized burn centers.
Cooling with tap जल may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may result in low body temperature.
Partial thickness burns may आवश्यकता सफ़ाई साथ soap and water followed by dressings.
फफोले should typically be left unbroken.
Full thickness burns usually require surgical treatments such as skin grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids.
The most common complications of burns हैं सम्बन्धित to infection.
While large burns can be fatal, modern treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes, especially in children and young adults.
Globally about 11 million people seek medical treatment और 300,000 लोगों die from burns.
In the United States, of those admitted to a burn center, approximately 4 % die from उनके चोटों.
The long term outcome is primarily related to the size of burn and the age of the person effected.
The Atlantic समंदर, not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
This video was taken by the crew of Expedition 29 on फलक the ISS.
The pass starts इससे बस north-east of the Island of Newfoundland over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa, over South Sudan.
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the संसार 's oceanic divisions.
With a total area of about, it covers approximately 20 प्रतिशत of the Earth 's surface and about 29 percent of its water surface area.
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology, making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas ''.
The oldest known mention of `` अटलांटिक '' is in the Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt. 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ).
The term Ethiopic Ocean, derived from Ethiopia, was applied to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century.
Before Europeans discovered other oceans, the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic.
The early Greeks believed this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world.
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between यूरेशिया and Africa to the east, and the Americas to the west.
As one component of the interconnected global ocean, it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ), to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
( अन्य परिभाषाएं describe the अटलांटिक as extending southward to अंटार्कटिक. )
The equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean.
Due to their long-term persistence, and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and warnings, tropical cyclones and subtropical cyclones are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ).
The following are lists from which these तीव्र और उपोष्ण cyclone names are derived.
White light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye.
इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण in इस दायरा of wavelengths is पुकारा दृश्य लाइट or बस लाइट.
A ठेठ human eye will respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm.
In terms of frequency, this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
a light-adapted नजर generally रै इसके अधिकतम संवेदनशीलता at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ), in the ग्रीन प्रदेश of the ऑप्टिकल वर्णक्रम ( देखिए : दीप्ति फलन ).
The spectrum does not, however, contain all the colors that the human eyes and brain can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors such as pink, or purple variations such as magenta, are absent, for example, because they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths.
Colors containing only one wavelength are also पुकारा pure colors.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window ``, the region of the electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the धरती 's माहौल.
An example of this phenomenon is that clean air scatters blue लाइट अधिक than red wavelengths, and so the midday sky appears blue.
The optical window is also called the visible window because it overlaps the human visible response spectrum.
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human vision, as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though अन्य animals may experience them.
Many species can see light with बारंबारता बाहर the `` visible spectrum, '' which is defined in terms of human vision.
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet light, which helps them find nectar in flowers.
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive कामयाबी to their appearance in ultraviolet light, rather than how colorful they appear to humans.
पक्षियों, too, can देखिए into the पराबैंगनी ( 300–400 nm ), और कुछ have sex-dependent markings on उनके plumage कि हैं दृश्य तभी in the पराबैंगनी range.
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range, however, can not see रेड लाइट or कोई अन्य reddish wavelengths.
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm, just before the orange wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can see some red wavelengths, but not as many as humans.
zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids ( horse family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes.
Their stripes come in different patterns, unique to each individual.
वे हैं generally social animals that live in small harems to large herds.
Unlike उनके closest रिश्तेदारों, horses and asses, zebras have never been truly domesticated.
There are three species of zebras : the plains zebra, the Grévy 's जेब्रा and the mountain zebra.
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris, but Grévy 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an ass, to which it is closely related, while the former two are more horse-like.
All three belong to the genus Equus, along with अन्य living equids.
The unique stripes of zebras make them one of the animals most परिचित to लोगों.
They occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, woodlands, thorny scrublands, mountains, and coastal hills.
However, various anthropogenic कारकों have had a severe impact on zebra populations, in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction.
Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra are endangered.
While plains zebras are much more plentiful, one subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the late 19th century – though there is currently a plan, called the Quagga Project, that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a प्रक्रम called breeding back.
Barry White, born Barry Eugene Carter ( – ), was an American composer and singer-songwriter.
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image, White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra, crafting many enduring soul, funk, and disco songs such as his two biggest hits, `` You 're the First, the Last, My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe. ''
Along with Isaac Hayes, White is considered by allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s.
During the कोर्स of उसके करियर in the म्यूज़िक कारोबार, White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide, 41 of which also attained platinum status.
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles, with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million, according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan.
His influences included Rev. James Cleveland, Ray Charles, Aretha Franklin plus motown कलाकारों the supremes, the चार Tops and Marvin Gaye.
एंजेलीना जोली (, born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4, 1975 ) is an American actress, film director, and screenwriter.
वो रै प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार, दो स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, और थी नामित हॉलीवुड 's highest-paid अभिनेत्री by फोर्ब्स in 2009 और 2011.
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes, and is noted for her work with शरणार्थियों as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ).
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman, a title for which she has received substantial media attention.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ), but her film career began in earnest a decade बाद साथ the low-budget उत्पादन Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her first leading role in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ).
वो स्ट्रक्चर in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ), and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl, Interrupted ( 1999 ).
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ), and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ).
She जारी उसके कार्रवाई स्टार करियर साथ mr. & mrs. स्मिथ ( 2005 ) और चाही ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated वाणिज्यिक सफलताओं to date—and प्राप्त further नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the dramas a mighty दिल ( 2007 ) और changeling ( 2008 ), जिससे अर्जित उसके a नामांकन लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री.
Jolie made her directorial debut with the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ).
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob थॉर्नटन, जोली अभी जीवनदान with actor Brad Pitt, in a relationship notable for fervent media attention.
Jolie and Pitt have तीन biological children and three adopted children.
A natural arch produced by the erosion of differentially weathered rock in jebel Kharaz, Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes such as wind or water flow, and then transported और deposited in other locations.
While erosion is a natural process, human activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally.
excessive अपरदन कल्याणकारी समस्याएं ऐसे as मरुस्थलीकरण, decreases in agricultural उत्पादकता due to जमीन degradation, sedimentation of जलमार्गों, और ecological पतन due to घाटा of the nutrient समृद्ध अपर मृदा परतों.
जल और हवा अपरदन हैं अभी the दो प्राथमिक कल्याणकारी of जमीन degradation ; संयुक्त, वे हैं जिम्मेदार लिये 84 % of degraded acreage, बनाना excessive अपरदन एक of the सबसे significant वैश्विक पर्यावरणीय समस्याएं.
Industrial agriculture, वनों, सड़कें, anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in regard to their effect on stimulating erosion.
However, there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion, such as terrace -building, no-till agriculture, and revegetation of denuded soils.
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on एमटीवी इससे दिसम्बर 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the United States.
The series follows the lives of eight housemates spending their summer at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami Beach, with ऋतु 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
The fourth season, filmed in Italy, premiered on August 4, 2011.
The show returned for a fifth season, at Seaside हाइट्स on January 5, 2012.
The fifth season finale aired on March 15, 2012.
On March 19, 2012, MTV confirmed that the series होता वापसी for their sixth season.
On August 30, 2012, MTV announced that the series will end बाद the छठे season, which premiered on October 4.
the series finale aired on December 20, 2012.
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette, '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes, and scrutiny from locals because the cast members were not residents of the area.
The series garnered record ratings for MTV, making it the network 's most viewed series telecast ever.
The series ' cast have also been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into American popular culture.
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show.
In 2010, the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list, and the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide.
There are several remakes of the show in other countries, साथ two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore, set in Newcastle upon Tyne, England.
the अन्य is The Valleys, the Welsh equivalent, which is filmed and set in Cardiff.
The only other official remake of the show is gandía shore, set in Gandía, Spain.
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States, including all waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all U.S. Naval vessels.
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign अधिकारों for exploring, exploiting, conserving, and managing its territory.
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to, and under the dominion of, the United States federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes.
The United States कुल territory includes a subset of political divisions.
The U.S. government is a government with delegated powers under the United States Constitution.
`` The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are सुरक्षित to the States respectively, or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment.
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by जोनाथन mostow और अभिनीत Arnold Schwarzenegger, Nick Stahl, Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken.
It is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor पहले her son is born and to kill John himself as a child, it sends back another Terminator, the T-X, in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible.
This शामिल John 's future wife, but not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet.
John 's life is placed in danger when the T-X accidentally finds him.
A cord of लकडी
The cord is a unit of measure of शुष्क आवाज़ used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood.
A cord is the amount of wood that, जब `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned, parallel, touching and compact ), occupies a volume of.
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high, long, and deep ; or any other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume.
The name cord probably comes from the use of a cord or string to measure it.
The, is an 8-bit handheld video game device developed और manufactured by Nintendo.
It was released in Japan on, in North America in, and in Europe on.
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line, and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998, in the form of Game Boy Pocket, and Game Boy Light ( Japan तभी ), क्रमशः.
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series introduced in, and it combined features from both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch.
It was originally bundled with the puzzle खेल Tetris.
As part of the चौथी पीढी of गेमिंग, the Game Boy competed with the Sega Game Gear, Atari Lynx, and the TurboExpress.
Despite these other technologically superior handheld consoles, the Game Boy was a tremendous success.
The Game Boy and its successor, the Game Boy Color, have both combined बेची 118.69 million units worldwide.
Upon its release in the United States, it sold its entire shipment of one million units within weeks.
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings under construction in Lower Manhattan, New York City, United States, replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site.
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers, which opened on April 4, 1973 and were destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001, along with 7 World Trade Center.
The other buildings in the complex were damaged in the attacks, and their ruins were eventually demolished.
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the attacks.
, only one skyscraper has महरूम समाप्त ; the अन्य four are expected to be completed before 2020.
One World Trade Center will be the lead building for the new complex, reaching more than 100 stories at its completion.
It became the tallest building in New York City on April 30, 2012, and is expected to be finished by 2013.
A sixth tower is awaiting confirmation.
At the time of their completion, the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ), known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '', were the tallest buildings in the world.
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott World व्यापार Center ), 4 WTC, 5 WTC, 6 WTC, and 7 WTC.
All of ये buildings were built between 1975 and 1985.
The cost for the construction was $ 400 लाख ( $ in dollars ).
the जटिल थी स्तिथ in the दिल of नई यॉर्क नगर 's शहर वित्तीय ज़िला और contained 13.4 लाख वर्गाकार फीट ( 1.24 लाख m2 ) of दफ्तर स्पेस.
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 and a robbery on, 1998.
In 1998, the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade Center, leasing the buildings to a private company to manage, and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
on the morning of सितंबर 11, 2001, al-qaeda -संबद्धd hijackers उड़ाया दो बोइंग 767 jets into the जटिल, एक into प्रत्येक मीनार, in a समन्वित आतंकवादी आक्रमण.
After burning for 56 minutes, the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour later by the North Tower ( 1 ), with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths.
Falling debris from the towers, combined with fires that the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings, led to the partial or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area.
The process of cleanup and recovery at the संसार Trade Center site took eight months.
Over the following सालो, plans for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form.
The first new building at the site was 7 World व्यापार बीच, जिससे opened in.
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ), established in to oversee the पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम, व्यवस्थित प्रतियोगिताओं to select a site plan and memorial design.
Memory Foundations, designed by Daniel Libeskind, was selected as the master plan, but this went through substantial changes in design.
The new World Trade Center complex होगा शामिल एक संसार व्यापार बीच, तीन अन्य high-rise office towers, and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.
सैन जिबरील kyu
San Bernardino Mountains, with Mt. San Gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background.
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of southern California, in the Pacific Coast Ranges physiographic region in North America.
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties.
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation, making them अनुप्रस्थ to the सामान्य north-south orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains.
Periodic table with electron शेल
An electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus.
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L shell '' ), then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` m शेल '' ), and so on farther and farther from the nucleus.
The shell letters K, L, M,..., used in the X-ray notation, are वर्णमाला.
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st शेल can थाम up to two electrons, the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons, the 3rd shell can hold up to 18, and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on.
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus, an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons.
However, this is not a strict requirement : अणु may have two or even three incomplete outer shells.
( See Madelung rule for more विवरण. )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these shells see electron configuration.
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence शेल.
Each शेल consists of one or more subshells, and each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals.
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( née Hogan ; November 28, 1967 – फ़रवरी 8, 2007 ), known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith, was an American model, actress, and television personality.
Smith first gained लोकप्रियता in Playboy, becoming the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
She modeled for clothing companies, सहित Guess jeans and Lane Bryant.
Smith dropped out of high school and was शादीशुदा in 1985.
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul, J. Howard Marshall, 62 years her senior, resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money, which she denied.
following Marshall 's death, Smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate.
Her case, Marshall v. Marshall, reached the U.S. परम् Court on a question of federal jurisdiction, and again on a question of bankruptcy court authority ( now called Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a Hollywood, Florida hotel room as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs.
Within the final six months of her life, Smith was the focus of a renewed press coverage surrounding the death of her son, Daniel, and the paternity and custody battle over उसके newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
The is one denomination of Japanese yen.
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` new script ``, and were also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters.
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when, due to the much higher value of the yen, they were minted in gold ).
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water, with `` five yen '' written in कांजी ; the वापस is stamped साथ `` जापानी '' और the year of issue, also in kanji, separated by sprouts of a tree.
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries, the key elements of the Japanese first-sector economy.
Around a hole, वहीँ is a gear that represents industry.
It is the only Japanese coin in circulation to lack Arabic numerals on either फेस.
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned R & B, hip hop, soul, funk, and new jack swing.
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins, rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas, the group found unprecedented कामयाबी in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law, each other, and the group 's record label.
Initially, TLC achieved commercial success following the release of their debut एल्बम Ooooooohhh...
On the TLC Tip, which sold 6 लाख copies worldwide.
However, it was their second album, CrazySexyCool, that catapulted the group to superstar status.
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female group, and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide.
Five सालो later, the group released their third album FanMail, which became the group 's first album to debut at number one and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide.
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the highest grossing tour of all time by a female band.
In 2002, Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras.
Seven months later, T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D, which sold 2 million copies worldwide, it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye.
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as one of the greatest musical trios.
Between 1992 and 2003, the band accumulated ten top ten singles, four number one singles, four multi-platinum albums, and four Grammy Awards.
At the end of 1999, TLC was ranked as the seventh most successful act of the 1990s by Billboard.
In 2008, the group was inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the वही magazine, at 56th place.
That year it थी भी सूचीबद्ध as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop कलाकार of the preceding 25 सालो.
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and they are ranked as the second best selling female group of सब समय, और the best selling female R & B group of all time.
In 2012, TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music, being ranked the number one all लड़की समूह on that list.
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics, it is based on the story टार्ज़न of the apes by एडगर राइस बरोज, and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated.
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy, Bob Tzudiker, and Noni White, Tarzan features the voices of Tony Goldwyn, Minnie Driver, ग्लेन बंद, and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed, Lance Henriksen, Wayne Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the time of its release, its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive animated film ever made, until topped by Disney 's अपना $ 140 लाख Treasure Planet in 2002.
It was also the first डिज़्नी animated feature to open at # 1 since Pocahontas.
This was the last major box office success of the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण.
Oil Platform P-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible मंच.
Oil platform Mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform, ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill wells, to extract and process oil and natural gas, and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing.
In many cases, the मंच contains facilities to house the workforce as well.
Depending on the circumstances, the platform may be fixed to the ocean floor, may consist of an कृत्रिम island, or may float.
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections.
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells, or of one or अधिक manifold centres for multiple wells.
Slaughter is the killing of animals, usually that of domestic livestock for food.
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle, water buffalo ( for beef and veal ), sheep, goats ( for lamb and mutton ), pigs ( for pork ), horses ( for horse meat ), और fowl, largely मुर्गियों, turkeys, और ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ).
The White House, the अध्यक्ष 's official residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution, the President of the United States is the head of state और सिर of सरकारी of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole, the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद Forces.
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States संविधान in 1951, no person may be elected President more than twice, and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or removal from office of an incumbent President, the Vice President assumes the office.
The President must be at तनिक 35 years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
For American leaders before this ratification, see President of the Continental Congress.
The list does not शामिल any Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have महरूम 43 लोगों sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding, and फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ), चार यहूद assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first president, was inaugurated in 1789 after a सर्वसम्मत vote of the Electoral College.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years, but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two terms, and a constitutional amendment, affecting presidents बाद हैरी Truman, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners इससे मतदान were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first elected after women gained voting rights in 1920.
History records four presidents – John Q Adams, Rutherford B. Hayes, Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic आस्था, और the वर्तमान president, Barack Obama, is the first president of African descent.
Several firearms with detachable suppressors, from top to bottom : An Uzi, An AR-15, A Heckler & Koch USP Tactical, A Beretta 92FS, and a SIG Mosquito.
Bolt action rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with संलग्न suppressor.
A suppressor, sound suppressor, or sound moderator, is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise, and usually the amount of muzzle flash, generated by firing the weapon.
A suppressor can be प्रयुक्त both with a firearm and with compressed air gun.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile, विशेषकर एक moving faster than the speed of sound, through the air can not be eliminated.
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e. वृहद than 300 meters ) can lessen, or retard, the report at the moment of impact, and create the impression of silence near the target.
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel, though subdued, is not silent at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet.
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of the 20th century by several inventors.
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim, Hiram Percy 's father, and the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun ), is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially कामयाब मॉडल circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ).
Maxim gave his device the trademarked name कहावत silencer.
the मफलर लिये आतंरिक दहन इंजन थी विकसित in समानांतर साथ the firearm suppressor by कहावत in the जल्दी 20th सदी, using अनेक of the वही तकनीकों to provide quieter-running इंजन ( in अनेक यूरोपीय देशों ऑटोमोबाइल mufflers हैं स्टिल पुकारा silencers ).
The word silencer in सन्दर्भ to गन suppressor remains in फैली उपयोग, हालांकि it रै चूंकि गिरे आउट of एहसान साथ कुछ, विशेषकर among the firearms उद्योग, होने replaced साथ the अधिक वस्तुतः सटीक पद ध्वनि suppressor or बस suppressor, क्युकी a `` ध्वनि suppressor '' करता नहीं `` खामोशी '' कोई हथियार, बल्कि it eliminates muzzle फ्लैश और reduces the सोनिक दबाव of a firearm discharging.
Common usage and U.S. विधान language favor the historically earlier term, silencer.
In U.S. law, the terms `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' हैं synonymous.
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United States Office of Strategic Services, who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM.22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II.
OSS Director विलियम Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House.
According to OSS research chief Stanley Lovell, Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office, where Roosevelt was dictating a letter.
While Roosevelt finished his message, Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he had brought with him, announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president.
the अंग्रेजों soe ( खास परिचालन कार्यपालिका ) welrod हत्या पिस्टल साथ an अभिन्न suppressor थी भी प्रयुक्त by the अमरीकी oss on clandestine परिचालन in नाजी occupied यूरोपीय दौरान the Second World War.
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13, 1922 – April 25, 2009 ) was an American actress, comedienne, and singer जिनकी करियर spanned seven decades.
Arthur achieved fame as the अक्षर maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the परिवार और maude, और as डोरोथी zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the सुनहरी लड़कियों, जीतना एमी पुरस्कार लिये दोनो भूमिकाएँ.
A stage actress both before and after her television success, she won the Tony Award लिये बेहतरीन Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 जापानी 3d computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series, produced by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment.
The film premiered in उत्तर अमेरिका by Bandai Entertainment on July 26, 2011, and in Australia on July 27, 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening.
It was released on सितंबर 3, 2011 in Japan.
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22, 2011 for USA, and December 1, 2011 for Japan.
This film was also released on DVD on November 22, 2011 ( 2D Version only ).
The film was additionally included with the PlayStation 3 game, Tekken Hybrid, and the Nintendo 3DS title, Tekken 3D : Prime Edition.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups, see पड़ोस association.
In the United States, a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing, managing, and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision.
It अनुदान the डेवलपर विशेषाधिकार मतदान अधिकारों in शासी the संघ, जबकि allowing the डेवलपर to निकास वित्तीय और विधिक जिम्मेदारी of the संगठन, typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the संघ to the homeowners बाद selling बंद a predetermined क्रमांक of लोट.
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it.
Most homeowner associations are incorporated, and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations.
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal, and mainly takes the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to राज्य.
Some states, such as Florida and California, have a large body of homeowner association law, and some states, such as Massachusetts, have virtually no homeowner association law.
the तीव्रतम growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ), a category that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes, condominiums, and cooperative apartments.
Since 1964, homeowner एसोसिएशन have become increasingly common in the USA.
The Community Associations Institute trade association estimated that HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have been developed since its domestication ca. 5000 BC.
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose, ranging from show breeds with long, flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by science.
From ca. 1200 ad to the स्पेनी conquest of the इन्का Empire in 1532, selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs, which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds.
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food, and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era.
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century, the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets.
To this समाप्त, various competitive breeding organizations were founded by fanciers.
The American Cavy Breeders Association, an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders Association, is the governing body in the United States and Canada.
The अंग्रेजों Cavy Council governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( Australian National Cavy Council ) and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ).
Each club publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for showing.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
Though वहीँ हैं many breeds of Guinea pig, only a few breeds are commonly found on the show table as pets.
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred to be pleasant pets regardless of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection.
The short hair, Abyssinian, Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets, and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs.
In addition to their standard form, nearly all breeds आइये in a Satin variant.
Satins, due to their hollow hair shafts, possess coats of a special gloss and shine.
However, there is growing evidence that the genes responsible for the Satin coat also can cause severe bone problems, including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease.
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy प्रजनक ' एसोसिएशन क्युकी of animal welfare reasons.
All cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the head profile should be rounded, with large eyes and large, smooth ears.
The body should be strong and of compact build.
कोट रंग चाहिए in सब विसंगतियाँ be clearly पारिभाषित और thorough इससे रूट to टिप.
These standards are best met by long established, commonly bred breeds, as their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities.
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds, which have had well established, separate breeding lines for different colours.
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children बगैर charge paid for, in whole or in part, by taxation.
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary education funded, in whole or in part, and overseen by government.
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose sequence is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules.
This is required by all living cells and associated वाइरस.
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the Greek soma, meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ).
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules.
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA, while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain.
Each subunit is रचित of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules and a variety of proteins.
the अनुक्रम of डीएनए एन्कोडिंग लिये a प्रोटीन may be कॉपी अनेक टाइम्स into मेसेंजर rna ( mrna ) जंजीरों of a समान अनुक्रम.
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and use it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein.
Amino acids are selected, collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( trna अणुओं ), which enter one part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain.
The attached amino acids are then linked together by another part of the राइबोसोम.
Once the protein is produced, it can then 'fold ' to produce a specific functional three-dimensional ढांचा.
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein.
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern, while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids.
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA अणु, ये दो subunits split apart.
Ribosomes are ribozymes, because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA.
Ribosomes from bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size, sequence, structure, and the ratio of protein to RNA.
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill जीवाणु by inhibiting their ribosomes, while leaving human ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria and archaea, more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA chain at one समय, प्रत्येक `` पढना '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule.
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many features of those in bacteria, reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria.
Albert Claude, Christian de Duve, and George Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, in 1974, for the discovery of the ribosomes.
The Nobel पुरस्कार in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome.
the सरलीकृत आतंरिक ढांचा of a हरितलवक
Overview of the Calvin साईकिल and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes.
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this process occurs only when light is available.
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night.
वे, instead, release sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, C4 carbon fixation, and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
In mathematics, a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the square of an पूर्णांक ; in other words, it is the product of some integer with itself.
For example, 9 is a square number, since it can be written as.
the usual संकेतन लिये the सूत्र लिये the वर्गाकार of a क्रमांक is नहीं the उत्पाद, लकिन the समतुल्य घातांक, प्रायः सुनाया as `` वर्गाकार ''.
The name square number comes from the name of the shape ; देखिए below.
Square numbers हैं non-negative.
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) number is a square number, is that its square roots are again integers.
For example, = ±3, so 9 is a square क्रमांक.
a धनात्मक पूर्णांक कि रै no पूर्ण वर्गाकार divisors मगर 1 is पुकारा square-free.
For a non-negative integer, the th square number is, with being the zeroth वर्गाकार.
The concept of square can be extended to some other number प्रणालियों.
If rational numbers are included, then a square is the ratio of two square integers, and, conversely, the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
Starting with 1, there are square numbers up to and including, where the expression represents the floor of the number.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United States that reflected a sense of national purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
The era saw the पतन of the federalist पार्टी और an समाप्त to the कड़वा partisan disputes between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System.
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations, साथ the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics.
the काल is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) and his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of the federalist पार्टी as America began to develop after the War of 1812.
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the war with Britain, this era also marks the first उदाहरण of economic troubles in the growing United States.
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay, protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis.
While the term “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with विडंबना क्युकी of the political turmoil, economic factors caused animosity between the North and South.
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive, especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party.
The phrase “Era of शुभ feelings” थी coined by बेंजामिन रसेल, in the Boston Federalist newspaper, Columbian Centinel, on July 12, 1817, following Monroe 's visit to Boston, Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America.
Mariel मार्गरेट `` मिया '' hamm ( born March 17, 1972 ) is a retired American professional soccer player.
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United States women 's national soccer team and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom.
Hamm scored 158 international goals, more than any other player, male or female, in the history of soccer and is the तीसरा सबसे capped मादा खिलाड़ी in सॉकर इतिहास behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone, appearing in 275 international matches.
Hamm was named the women 's फीफा संसार खिलाड़ी of the साल the first two times that award was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ), and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé ).
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and टेक्सास खेल Hall of Fame.
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and Life and appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team.
Washington Post columnist माइकल wilbon पुकारा hamm, `` शायद the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण खिलाड़ी of the पिछला 15 सालो. ''
Hamm takes a corner kick.
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in Harrison, New Jersey, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The team competes in the Eastern Conference of Major लीग Soccer ( MLS ).
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS, having competed in the league since its inception.
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ), but has gone through several name changes.
The team was originally known as the New York/New जर्सी metrostars through 1997.
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season, the team was known as the metrostars.
On March 9, 2006, the team was sold to Red Bull GmbH, leading to the team 's current name.
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have जीती कोई significant ट्रॉफी ( including regular season, playoffs, and knockout competition ) since inception.
The team 's best result in the MLS थी the MLS Cup final in 2008.
In the US Open Cup, the MetroStars reached three semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), before reaching their first final in 2003, losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire.
On August 26, 2000, the Metros ' Clint Mathis set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the डलास Burn.
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese, Tim Howard, Tony Meola, Tab Ramos, Alexi Lalas, Clint Mathis, Jozy Altidore, Michael Bradley, Claudio Reyna, Eddie Pope, Roberto Donadoni, Lothar Matthäus, Adolfo Valencia, Youri Djorkaeff, Amado Guevara, Juan Pablo Ángel, Thierry Henry, Juninho Pernambucano, Jan Gunnar Solli, Rafael Márquez, and Tim Cahill.
The team has also had well-known coaches, including Carlos Queiroz, Carlos Alberto Parreira, Bora Milutinović, Bob Bradley, Mo Johnston, Bruce Arena and Hans Backe.
Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism are one, a painting in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a river stream, 12th century, Song Dynasty.
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world, or in many countries, is मुश्किल due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration.
To begin with, the religious beliefs, practices, and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism, the Chinese folk religion, Daoism, Shinto, and Korean shamanism.
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations, or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge, making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners.
An additional challenge is the hostility of several national governments ( often Communist ones such as China or North कोरियाई ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically.
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence, resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries.
अनुमान of the विश्वव्यापी Buddhist population range from 350 million to over one billion, but cluster nearer to the first figure.
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million.
By major branches, the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism, including East Asian Buddhism, with no fewer than 185 million adherents, and possibly several times that many ( again, depending on definitional issues ).
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, and Vietnam.
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism, with no fewer than 125 million adherents.
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in Cambodia, Thailand, लाओस, श्री Lanka, and Burma.
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism, with लगभग 20 million adherents.
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions, as खूब as in the Himalayas.
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan, and various territories within what is now western China, Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g. Kalmykia, Buryatia ), India ( e.g. Ladakh, Sikkim ), and Nepal ( e.g. Khumbu ).
Vajrayana, भी ज्ञात as तिब्बती buddhism, is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism, but this is imprecise, as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra.
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Burma, Bhutan, and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents, this figure might expand to include अनेक अधिक देशों.
In addition, Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia and Bhutan, and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka.
In northern India and Nepal, the land where Buddhism was born, the religion severely declined during the first millennium.
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of northern India, or to other factors, remains controversial.
See the article Decline of buddhism in India.
James Butler Hickok ( May 27, 1837 – अगस्त 2, 1876 ), बेहतर known as Wild Bill Hickok, was a folk hero of the American Old West.
His skills as a gunfighter and स्काउट, along with his reputation as a lawman, provided the basis for his fame, although some of his reported exploits are fictionalized.
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois, Hickok went west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice, first working as a stagecoach driver, before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska.
He fought for the Union Army दौरान the American Civil War, and gained publicity after the war as a scout, marksman, actor, and professional gambler.
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling, which easily overlapped, Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts.
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood, Dakota territory ( now South Dakota ).
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars.
the रोवर उतरा on मंगल in अगस्त 2012.
A Mars rover is an automated motor गाडी जिससे propels itself आरपार the surface of the planet Mars after landing.
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory, they can be directed to interesting features, they can place themselves in sunny positions to मौसम शीत महीने और they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control.
There have been four successful robotically operated Mars rovers.
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory managed the Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover.
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's active Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit, and, as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission, the जिज्ञासा rover.
A financial audit, or more accurately, an audit of financial statements, is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity, with a view to express an audit opinion.
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance, but not absolute assurance, that the financial statements are प्रस्तुत fairly, in all material respects, and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.
The purpose of an ऑडिट is provide और उद्देश्य स्वतंत्र परिक्षा of the वित्तीय कथन, जिससे increases the मान और विश्वसनीयता of the वित्तीय कथन उत्पादित by प्रबन्धन, यूँ बढ़ाएँ उपयोक्ता विश्वास in the वित्तीय बयान, reduce निवेशकों रिस्क और नतीजतन reduce the लागत of पूंजी of the preparer of the वित्तीय कथन.
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in financial reporting.
The financial audit is one of many assurance कृत्यों provided by accounting firms.
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors, who do not attest to financial reports but focus mainly on the internal controls of the organization.
External auditors may choose to place limited reliance on the work of internal auditors.
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization, therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) जारी by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process.
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a लोकल विभिन्नता of the ISA.
Dollar coins have been minted in the United States in gold, silver, and base metal versions.
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar, although purists insist that a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of that metal.
Silver dollars, the first dollar coin issue, were minted शुरूआत in 1794.
सुनहरा डॉलर and gold-colored dollars have also been produced by the United States.
The Sacagawea and अध्यक्षीय dollars are often referred to as `` golden dollars ''.
In modern times, dollar coins have not been very popular in the United States.
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use, most Americans currently use the one डालर विधेयक rather than dollar coins.
In straight and level flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ).
In a banked turn of 60°, lift equals double the वज़न ( l=2w ).
The pilot experiences 2g and a doubled वज़न.
The steeper the bank, the greater the g-forces.
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the लंबवत g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g.
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers.
It is not a force, per se, but a force per unit mass.
Since such a force is perceived as a वज़न, कोई g-force can be वर्णित as a `` weight per unit mass '' ( see the synonym specific weight ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every ईकाई of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's mass, and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall.
This acceleration experienced by an ऑब्जेक्ट is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move.
The accelerations कि हैं नहीं produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations, and it is only these that are measured in g-force units.
They cause तनावों और strains on objects.
Because of these strains, विशाल g-forces may be destructive.
gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force, even though g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity.
Thus, the standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces.
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground, keeping the object from going into free-fall.
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition, which is the path that the object would follow जब falling freely toward the Earth 's center.
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, feel no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' शर्तें अंदर a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ), or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
These are examples of निर्देशांक acceleration ( a change in velocity ) without a sensation of weight.
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is produced, is synonymous with weightlessness.
In the absence of gravitational fields, or in directions at right कोण to उन्हें, उचित और निर्देशांक accelerations are the same, and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration.
An example here is a rocket in free space, in which simple changes in velocity are produced by the engines, and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers.
An augur holding a lituus, the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
the augur was a priest and official in the classical world, especially ancient Rome and Etruria.
His main role was to interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they are flying in groups or alone, what noises they make as they fly, direction of flight and what kind of birds they are.
इस थी ज्ञात as `` लेने the auspices. ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters of war, commerce, and religion.
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city was founded only after taking the auspices, that everything in war and in peace, at home and abroad, was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan.
It is the second largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan.
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit and is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor.
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United States, as well as in the state of Michigan.
In 2010, the area ranked as the 30th safest city in America.
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses, Farmington and Farmington Hills are often thought of as the वही जातियाँ.
Features of the community include a recently renovated downtown, boutiques, a vintage cinema, numerous restaurants, exotic car dealerships, art galleries, and public parks सहित विरासत Park.
There are several historical sites including the Longacre House and the Governor Warner Mansion.
Both cities are served by Farmington पब्लिक Schools.
Farmington Hills serves as a major business center लिये the वृहद Detroit area.
present-day छाप of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town मुहर ( matrix ) of Náchod from 1570
A seal is a device for making an impression in wax, clay, paper, or some other medium, including an embossment on paper, and is also the impression thus made.
The original purpose was to authenticate a document, a wrapper for one such as a modern envelope, or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects.
The sealing process is essentially कि of a mould, with the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making device is also referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or, more rarely, the sealing ).
If the छाप is बना purely as a राहत resulting इससे the वृहद दबाव on the पेपर जहाँ the ऊँची भाग of the मेट्रिक्स टच, the मुहर is ज्ञात as a शुष्क मुहर ; in सब अन्य मामले a द्रव or liquified मीडियम ( ऐसे as स्याही or मोम ) is प्रयुक्त, प्रायः in another रंग than the पेपर.
For legal purposes, the definition of a seal may be extended to include rubber stamps, or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S. `` ).
In the United States, the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ), which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings, on flags, or on official letterheads.
Thus, for example, the Great Seal of the United States, among other uses, appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags.
In Europe, although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals, the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics.
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag, Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on इस दिन, तब वसन्त होगा आइये जल्दी ; if it is sunny, the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow, and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks.
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog उभरते from its burrow.
In southeastern Pennsylvania, Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge, social events in which food is served, speeches are made, and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event, and those who speak English pay a penalty, usually in the form of a nickel, dime, or quarter per word spoken, with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table.
The largest Groundhog Day celebration is held in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
Groundhog Day, already a widely recognized and popular tradition, received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day, which was set in Punxsutawney, pa ( हालांकि फिल्माया primarily in Woodstock, IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil.
ऊँची रेज़ोल्यूशन चित्र of tampa खाड़ी प्रदेश
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen Cfa ), with warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms और drier सर्दियों साथ जमने temperatures occurring every 2–3 years.
The area experiences a significant गर्मियाँ गीला ऋतु, as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in the months of June through September.
The area is listed by the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10, which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown.
Highs प्रायः दायरा between 65 and 95 °F ( 18 and 35 °C ) year round.
Though known for hot ग्रीष्म, Tampa 's official high has never reached 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ).
St. Petersburg 's all-time रिकार्ड high is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ).
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico, and much of the city of tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay.
This proximity to large लाशें of जल both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere.
In general, the local समुदायों farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges, both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the year.
A आरेख of the electromagnetic spectrum, showing various properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies प्रयुक्त लिये आधुनिक radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the प्लांक length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ).
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
a प्रबल नेता of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और the तभी अमरीकी अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित to अधिक than दो शर्तें, he निर्मित a नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932, as उसके घरेलू नीतियों पारिभाषित अमरीकी उदारतावाद लिये the मध्य तीसरा of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme, FDR defeated incumbent रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट हूवर in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing optimism and सक्रियता contributed to a renewal of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet सामान्य Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of कार्यक्रम designed to उपज राहत ( सरकारी jobs for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a deep मंदी.
The bipartisan रूढ़िवादी गठबन्धन कि formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, except for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange आयोग, which still exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs include the Federal जमा बीमे निगम, which was created in 1933, and Social Security, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong diplomatic and वित्तीय support to चीन और Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which होता supply munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional approval, provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` date which will live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis शक्तियां और the विकास of the world 's first atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians.
बेरोजगारी dropped to 2 %, राहत कार्यक्रम largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve years of his presidency, but also for दशकों afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions, big city machines, श्वेत ethnics, African Americans and rural white Southerners.
He also influenced the later creation of the United Nations and bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents, along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a little left of center. ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a कमेटी बना up of सदस्यों of both chambers of a bicameral legislature.
in अन्य contexts, it refers to a कमेटी साथ सदस्यों इससे अधिक than एक संगठन.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the संघीय सरकारी ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of public order crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at one time considered to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
तभी 8 counties currently contain active brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ), Washoe County ( which contains Reno ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The अन्य काउंटी theoretically allow brothel prostitution, but some of these counties currently have no active brothels.
Street वेश्यावृति, `` pandering, '' और जीना बंद of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि, as elsewhere in the देश.
As with other countries, वेश्यावृति in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The national flag of the United राज्य of अमेरिका, प्रायः बस referred to as the अमरीकी ध्वज, consists of तेरह बराबर horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '', `` बूढ़ा महिमा ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
इण्डिया is a संघीय संघ of राज्य comprising twenty-eight राज्य और सात संघ territories.
The states and territories are further subdivided into districts and so on.
Congressional districts for the 113th United States Congress
2010 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, starting in 2013, as a result of the 2010 census.
2000 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, from 2003 to 2013, as a result of the 2000 census.
This is a complete list of congressional districts for representation in the United States House of Representatives.
The quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of districts are determined after each census, although in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census.
This list includes the 435 current and over 200 obsolete जिले.
For example, since the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, Nebraska has had three districts, but it used to have as many as six.
In the first decade of the twenty-first century, Texas had 32 जिले, लकिन रै चूंकि added four due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census.
Other states have lost districts since the number of congressional seats has been set at 435 by statute.
Also included here are non-voting delegations : six current and four obsolete.
The boundaries of जिले often shift with each redistricting.
Over time, the region and demographics represented in a district can change substantially.
furthermore, districts sometimes retain the same boundaries while changing their district numbers.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, record producer, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with Boyz II Men, spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which time Carey had separated from Mottola.
Carey left Columbia in 2000, and signed a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract साथ वर्जिन रिकॉर्ड.
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized लिये कठोर exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of her recording contract for $ 50 लाख, जिससे led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, and after an unsuccessful period, returned to the top of music चार्ट साथ the emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second सिंगल `` we belong साथ `` became उसके सबसे कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s, और थी बाद नामित `` सोंग of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey has sold more than 200 million records worldwide, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all समय.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards.
Carey was also named the best-selling female कलाकार of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of America, she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States, अधिक than कोई other solo artist.
In 2012, Carey was ranked second on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey has won five Grammy Awards, 17 World Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World Records, she is famed for her five-octave vocal range, power, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology, a बादल is a दृश्य द्रव्यमान of द्रव droplets or frozen crystals बना of जल or विभिन्न रसायन निलंबित in the माहौल ऊपर the सतह of a ग्रहीय देह.
These निलंबित particles are also known as aerosols.
Clouds in Earth 's atmosphere are studied in the cloud भौतिकी शाखा of meteorology.
Two processes, संभवतः एक्टिंग साथ, can lead to air becoming saturated ; cooling the air or adding water vapor to the air.
In general, precipitation will fall to the surface ; an exception is virga, which evaporates before reaching the surface.
The international cloud classification system is based on the fact clouds in their most basic forms can show free-convective upward growth like cumulus, appear in non-convective layered sheets such as stratus, or लो the रूप of पतला तंतुमय wisps, as in the case of cirrus.
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in these basic forms or to बताएँ मध्य or high altitude ranges.
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers, cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to heavy precipitation, alto- for middle clouds, and cirro- for high clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure.
Whether or not a बादल is कम, middle, or high level depends on how far above the ground its base forms.
Cloud types with significant vertical extent can form in the कम or मध्य ऊँचाई सीमाएँ depending on the moisture content of the air.
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the popular adaptation of Luke Howard 's cloud categorization system, which began to spread in popularity during December 1802.
Synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to record and report the types of tropospheric cloud visible at each scheduled observation time based on the height and physical appearance of the बादल.
While a majority of clouds form in Earth 's troposphere, there are occasions when clouds in the stratosphere और mesosphere can be observed.
These three main layers of the atmosphere where clouds may be seen are collectively known as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere, which together make up the heterosphere that marks the transition to outer space.
Clouds have been observed on other planets and moons within the Solar System, but, due to their different temperature characteristics, they are composed of other substances such as methane, ammonia, and sulfuric acid.
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas within the Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown metropolitan area.
As of the 2010 census, the population was 291,309.
Its county seat is galveston.
लीग नगर is the largest नगर in galveston काउंटी in शर्तें of जनसांख्यिकी ; url_http between 2000 और 2005 it surpassed galveston as the county 's largest city.
Galveston काउंटी was founded in 1838.
nassau
Freeport, बहामा
This is a सूची of cities in the Bahamas.
The following table lists the city or town name, the geographic coordinates, the जनसांख्यिकी as of the 1990 census, an estimate of the population as of 2009, and the island name.
The Big Ten Conference, formerly Western Conference and Big Nine Conference, is the oldest Division I college athletic conference in the United States.
Its twelve सदस्य संस्थानों ( which are primarily flagship research universities in their respective states, well-regarded academically, and with relatively large student enrollment ) are located primarily in the Midwest, stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east.
The conference competes in the ncaa 's प्रभाग i ; इसके फ़ुटबॉल टीमों compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ), formerly known as Division I-A, the highest level of NCAA competition in that sport.
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or, in two cases, their parent university systems ) also are members of the Committee on Institutional सहयोग, a अग्रणी शैक्षणिक and research consortium.
Despite the conference 's name, the बिग टेन actually consists of 12 schools, following the addition of The Pennsylvania State University in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the conference will expand to 14 members with the additions of the University of मेरीलैंड, कॉलेज पार्क और rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.
It is not to be confused with the Big 12 Conference, which has only ten schools and represents a different region of the country.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland using a pot still distillation process at a single distillery, with malted barley as the only grain संघटक.
As with any Scotch whisky, a single malt Scotch must be distilled in स्कॉटलैंड and matured in oak casks in Scotland for at least three years ( most single malts are matured longer ).
`` Malt '' indicates that the whisky is आसुत इससे a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of grains can be malted ( for example, barley, rye and wheat are all grains which can be malted ) ; however, in the case of single malt Scotch, barley is always the only grain used.
`` सिंगल '' indicates कि सब the malts in the बोतल आइये इससे a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी.
Bottlings containing malt whisky from multiple distilleries are called `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of whisky that contained a mixture of both barley and non-barley grain whisky, but this is no longer the case.
Under the terminology established by the SWR 2009, a `` blended malt Scotch whisky '' is a mixture of single malt Scotch whiskies, not a mixture of malted barley whisky and non-barley whisky ; those are called `` blended Scotch whisky '', without the word `` malt ''.
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' used under the prior labelling conventions.
The age statement on a बोतल of सिंगल malt Scotch is the number of years the whisky spent maturing in cask.
As very few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the age statement reflects the age of the youngest malt in the मिक्सर.
A texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely दृष्टिकोण the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, for example, the beautiful 'northern lights ' chord..., in a very interesting distribution of pitches, produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to more traditional musical textures, sound mass composition `` minimizes the importance of individual pitches in preference for texture, timbre, and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact. ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and spread to orchestral writing by the late 1950s and 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
Techniques which may create or be used साथ sound mass include extended techniques such as muted brass or strings, flutter tonguing, wide vibrato, extreme ranges, and glissandos.
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb, Pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns for chorus ( 1961 ), Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ), and Nancy Van de Vate.
Beecroft `` blurs individual pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of vocal and instrumental क्लस्टर, choral speech, narrator, and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ), where chaos is represented by a gradually cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
A later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's String Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) जबकि more recently Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example.
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and Edgard Varèse often carefully scored individual instrumental parts so that they would fuse into एक ensemble timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the fifties and sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) and György Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers with works using this technique include Henryk Górecki, Karel Husa, Witold Lutosławski, Kazimierz Serocki, and Steven Stucky.
Sound mass techniques also appear in the music of George Crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
Students attending a लेक्चर on रैखिक बीजगणित at the Helsinki University of Technology
Pupils in rural सूडान, 2002
A student is a learner, or someone who attends an educational institution.
In some nations, the English term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved for those who attend university, while a schoolchild under the age of eighteen is called a pupil in English ( or an equivalent in other languages ), although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student.
in इसके widest उपयोग, छात्र is प्रयुक्त लिये anyone जो is सीखना.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया is a महाद्वीप comprising मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया, तस्मानिया, नई गिनी, seram, संभवतः timor, और neighbouring आइलैंड्स.
The continent is sometimes known in technical contexts by the names Sahul, Australinea or Meganesia, to distinguish it इससे the Australian mainland.
It is the smallest of the seven traditional continents in the अंग्रेज़ी धारणा.
New Zealand is not part of the continent of Australia, but of the separate, submerged continent of Zealandia.
Zealandia and Australia are both part of the wider regions known as Australasia and महासागरीय.
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas which divide it into several landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres Strait between mainland Australia and New गिनी, and Bass Strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania.
When sea levels were lower during the Pleistocene ice age, including the last glacial maximum about 18,000 BC, they were connected by dry land.
During the past ten thousand years, rising sea levels overflowed the lowlands and separated the continent into today 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania.
Geologically, a continent extends to the edge of its continental shelf, so the now-separate islands are considered part of the continent.
Due to the spread of animals, fungi and plants across the single Pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related biota.
Central Park is nearly twice as big as the world 's second-smallest country, Monaco.
Historically its reservoirs were important components of the city 's water supply.
Environmental issues in New York City are affected by the city 's size, घनत्व, abundant public transportation infrastructure, and location at the mouth of the Hudson River.
नई यॉर्क 's जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व रै पर्यावरणीय फायदे और ठग.
It facilitates the highest mass transit use in the United States, but also concentrates pollution.
Gasoline consumption in the city is at the rate the national औसत थी in the 1920s, और ग्रीनहाउस gas emissions are a fraction of the national average, at 7.1 metric tons per person per year, below San Francisco, at 11.2 metric tons, and the national average, at 24.5 metric tons.
New York City accounts for only 1 % of United राज्य ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions while housing 2.7 % of its population.
In September 2012, New York was named the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City, '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey that rated the environmental quality of 35 prominent शहरों in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of and the most populous city in the U.S. state of Georgia, with an estimated 2011 population of 432,427.
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area, home to 5,457,831 people and the ninth largest metropolitan area in the United States.
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton County, and a small portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County.
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad lines, and the city rose from the ashes of the Civil War to become a national center of commerce.
In the decades following the Civil Rights Movement, during which the city earned a reputation as `` too busy to hate '' for the progressive views of its citizens and leaders, Atlanta attained international prominence.
अटलांटा is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United States, via highway, railroad, and air, with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world 's busiest airport since 1998.
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) world city, '' and, with a gross domestic product of US $ 270 billion, Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world शहरों and sixth in the nation.
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse, dominant sectors include logistics, professional and business services, media operations, government administration, and higher education.
topographically, अटलांटा is marked by rolling hills and dense tree coverage.
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods, initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics, has intensified in the 21st century, altering the city 's demographics, politics, and culture.
A 1947 propaganda comic book published by the Catechetical Guild Educational Society raising the specter of a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of disloyalty, subversion, or treason without proper regard for evidence.
It also means `` the practice of making unfair allegations or using unfair investigative techniques, especially in order to restrict dissent or political criticism. ''
The term has its origins in the period in the United States known as the Second Red Scare, lasting roughly from 1950 to 1956 and characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents.
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of Republican U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy of विस्कॉन्सिन, `` McCarthyism '' soon took on a broader meaning, describing the excesses of similar efforts.
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless, unsubstantiated accusations, as well as demagogic attacks on the character or patriotism of political adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists or communist sympathizers and became the subject of aggressive investigations and questioning before government or private-industry panels, committees and agencies.
The primary targets of such suspicions were government employees, those in the entertainment industry, educators and union activists.
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence, and the level of threat posed by a person 's real or supposed वामपंथी एसोसिएशन or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated.
Many people suffered loss of employment and/or destruction of their careers ; some even suffered कारावास.
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts later overturned, laws that would be declared unconstitutional, dismissals for reasons later declared illegal or actionable, or extra-legal procedures that would come into general disrepute.
The most famous examples of McCarthyism include the speeches, investigations, और hearings of सीनेटर मैकार्थी खुद ; the Hollywood blacklist, associated with hearings conducted by the House Un-American Activities Committee ( HUAC ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover.
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural phenomenon that affected all levels of society and was the source of a great deal of debate and conflict in the United States.
Napoleon is a fictional character and the main antagonist in George Orwell 's Animal Farm.
While he is at first a common farm pig, he gets rid of Snowball, another सुअर जिससे साझा the power.
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their masters to eventually become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm, '' which he turns into a dictatorship.
वरुण logo
the वरुण Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world.
Along with its sister project, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a unique दृष्टिकोण to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their research, while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler.
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s, initially the division 's highest trim line but, starting in 1955, the lowest trim line.
In the 1960s, the नाम थी transferred to Dodge 's mid-size entry.
ARM9 is an ARM वास्तुकला 32-bit RISC CPU family.
Commonwealth is a traditional English term for a political community founded for the common good.
Historically, it has sometimes been synonymous with `` republic ``.
More recently it has been used for fraternal associations of some sovereign nations.
Most notably, the Commonwealth of Nations, an association primarily of former members of the British Empire, is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth ''.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, were crashed into the North and South towers, respectively, of the World Trade Center complex in नई यॉर्क City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the wtc complex, as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ), leading to a आंशिक पतन in इसके पश्चिमी side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C., but crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers सवार the four planes.
suspicion quickly fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin Laden, initially denied any involvement, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the हमले.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
the संयुक्त राज्य responded to the हमले by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक और आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान, जिससे था harbored al-qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and विस्तारित विधि enforcement powers.
Having evaded capture for years, bin Laden was located and मारे by u.S. शक्तियां in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and अन्य गुण caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets.
क्लीनअप of the World Trade Center site was completed in May 2002, and the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York, the Pentagon Memorial, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the One World व्यापार Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Crater Lake National Park is a United States National Park located in southern Oregon.
Established in 1902, Crater Lake National पार्क is the पांचवां oldest national park in the United States and the only one in the state of Oregon.
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater Lake, a remnant of a destroyed volcano, Mount Mazama, and the surrounding hills and forests.
The lake is deep at its deepest point, which makes it the deepest झील in the संयुक्त राज्य, the second deepest in North America and the ninth deepest in the world.
Crater Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world, but this former listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake Vostok in Antarctica, which resides under nearly of ice, and the recent रपट of a अधिकतम गहराई लिये झील O'Higgins /San Martin, located on the border of Chile and Argentina.
However, when comparing its average depth of to the average depth of other deep lakes, Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world.
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago during the violent climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range.
The caldera rim ranges in elevation from.
The United States geological Survey benchmarked elevation of the lake surface itself is.
This नेशनल Park encompasses.
Crater Lake has no स्ट्रीम flowing into or out of it.
All water that enters the झील is eventually lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage.
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue, and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct precipitation in the form of snow and rain.
The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court in the United States.
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and over राज्य अदालत मामले involving issues of federal law, and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases.
The Court, which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington, D.C., consists of a chief justice and eight associate justices who are nominated by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate.
Once appointed, justices have life tenure unless they resign, retire, or are removed after impeachment.
Conroe is the सीट of Montgomery County and falls within the metropolitan area.
It is located about north of Houston.
As of July 2011, the city population was 58,973, up from 36,811 in 2000.
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement, which adherents believe contains writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to ad 421.
It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph Smith as The Book of Mormon : An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and also according to the book 's narrative, the Book of Mormon थी originally लिखा in वरना unknown characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates.
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book, a man named Moroni, buried it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to earth in 1827 as an angel, revealing the location of the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and disseminate it as प्रमाण of the बहाली of मसीह 's true church in the latter days.
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such as the fall of Adam and Eve, the nature of the Atonement, eschatology, redemption from physical and spiritual death, and the organization of the latter-day church.
The pivotal event of the book is an appearance of Jesus Christ to the Americas shortly after his resurrection.
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the Latter Day Saint movement, the denominations of which typically regard the text not only as scripture but also as a historical record of God 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas.
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books, titled after the individuals named as primary authors and, in most संस्करण, divided into chapters and verses.
It is written in English, very similar to the Early Modern English linguistic style of the King James Version of the Bible, and has since been fully or partially translated into 108 languages.
An enlisted rank ( also known as an आयोजिक ग्रेड or आयोजिक रेट ) is, in most militaries, any rank below that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer.
The term can also be inclusive of non-commissioned officers.
In most cases, enlisted service personnel perform jobs specific to their own occupational specialty, as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers.
`` कया a अद्भुत संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा by bob thiele ( as `` जार्ज डगलस '' ) और जार्ज दाउद वेइस.
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong और released as a single in 1967.
Thiele और वेइस यहूद दोनो prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
The प्रकाशन लिये this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
1908 poster advertising Gaumont 's sound films.
The Chronomégaphone, designed for large halls, employed compressed air to amplify the recorded sound.
A sound फिल्मी is a गति picture with synchronized sound, or sound technologically coupled to image, as opposed to a silent film.
The first known public प्रदर्शनी of projected sound films took place in Paris in 1900, but decades would pass before sound motion pictures were made commercially practical.
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve with the early sound-on-disc systems, and amplification and recording quality were also inadequate.
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the पहला commercial screening of short motion pictures using the technology, which took place in 1923.
The primary steps in the व्यावसायीकरण of sound cinema were taken in the mid- to late 1920s.
At first, the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '', or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length movies with recorded sound included only music and effects.
The first feature film originally प्रस्तुत as a talkie was The Jazz Singer, released in October 1927.
A major hit, it was made with Vitaphone, the leading brand of sound-on-disc technology.
sound-on-film, however, होता जल्द become the मानक लिये talking तस्वीरें.
By the early 1930s, the talkies were a global phenomenon.
In the United States, they helped secure Hollywood 's position as one of the world 's most शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial systems ( see Cinema of the United States ).
In Europe ( and, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers and critics, who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema.
In Japan, where the popular film tradition integrated silent movie and live vocal performance, talking pictures were slow to take root.
In India, sound was the transformative element that led to the rapid expansion of the nation 's film industry—the most productive such उद्योग in the संसार चूंकि the जल्दी 1960s.
African people are natives or निवासियों of Africa and people of African descent.
The Australian Recording Industry Association Music Awards ( commonly known as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is an annual series of awards nights celebrating the Australian music industry, put on by the Australian रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग Association ( ARIA ).
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( these are what is usually being referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ), आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और aria हॉल of कीर्ति – आयोजित separately from 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, ARIA introduced public voted awards for the पहला time.
Winning, or even being nominated for, an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist, and usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005, for example, after Ben Lee won three awards, his album जाग is the नई Sleep jumped from No. 31 to No. 5 in the ARIA Charts, its highest position.
For-profit education ( also known as the education services industry or मालिकाना education ) refers to educational institutions operated by private, profit -seeking businesses.
There are तीन types of for-profit schools.
One type is known as an educational management organization ( EMO ), and these are primary and secondary educational institutions.
EMOs work with स्कूल districts or charter schools, using public funds to finance operations.
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 sector in America function as EMOs, and have grown in number in the mid-2000s.
The other major category of for-profit schools are post-secondary institutions which operate as व्यवसायों, receiving fees from each student they enroll.
A third type of for-profit schools, जिससे is कम प्रचलित in the United States, are K–12 schools which operate as businesses.
emos फलन differently इससे charter schools created in order to carry out a particular teaching pedagogy ; most charter schools are mission-oriented, while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented.
जबकि supporters argue that the profit motive encourages efficiency, this arrangement has also drawn controversy and criticism.
Kevin Carey, director of the education policy program of the New American Foundation said in a 2010 column in The Chronicle of Higher Education that `` For-profits मौजूद in large part to fix educational market failures left by traditional institutions, and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore. ''
He also noted that `` वहीँ 's no doubt that the worst for-profits are ruthlessly exploiting the commodified college degree.
But they did n't commodify it in the first place. ''
Amendment XXII in the नेशनल अभिलेख
The Twenty-second Amendment of the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution sets a term limit for election to the office of President of the United States.
Congress passed the amendment on March 21, 1947.
It थी ratified by the requisite number of states on February 27, 1951.
इस is an episode guide for the anime series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
This list encompasses every episode, beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi, followed by the title used in the English dubbed version airing in the United States on Cartoon Network.
A short summary will follow, introducing the episode and referring to कुछ of the gags, but not giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
All names and some of the references will be the ones प्रयुक्त इससे the English-language version to avoid confusion.
Japanese names may be प्रस्तुत बाद the dub name in parentheses.
इस आलेख is परिचय the पब्लिक पार्क in नई यॉर्क City.
For other uses, see Central Park ( disambiguation ).
सेंट्रल Park is a public park at the center of Manhattan in New York City.
The park initially opened in 1857, on of city-owned land ( it is 843 acres आज ).
In 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux won a design competition to improve and expand the park with a plan they हकदार the Greensward Plan.
निर्माण began the वही साल, जारी दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध, और थी समाप्त in 1873.
Central Park is the most visited urban park in the United States.
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, the park is currently managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the नगर सरकारी.
The Conservancy is a non-profit संगठन that contributes 83.5 % of Central Park 's $ 37.5 million annual budget, and employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff.
TracFone Wireless, Inc. is a prepaid wireless service provider operating in the United States including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands and is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider, América Móvil.
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ), TracFone Wireless holds multiple agreements with the US largest wireless telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide service including those of Verizon, AT & T, Sprint, and T-Mobile.
tracfone बेतार offers इसके बेतार उत्पाद अंतर्गत अनेक ब्रांड्स जिससे प्रत्येक भी प्रस्ताव distinctive सेवा योजनाएँ, the ब्रांड्स शामिल tracfone, net10 बेतार, सीधा बात, safelink बेतार, telcel américa और सरल मोबाईल.
A पकड़ें dredge
Dredging is an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at least partly underwater, in shallow seas or fresh water areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of उन्हें at a different location.
This technique is often used to keep waterways navigable.
It is also used as a way to replenish sand on some public beaches, where बालू रै महरूम खोया क्युकी of coastal erosion.
Dredging is also used as a technique for fishing for certain species of edible clams and crabs, see fishing dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the Americas ) is any device, machine, or vessel that is used to excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of water.
For example, a scoop attached to the end of a rope or pole by which a man can चित्रण sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger.
Developing this idea further, a motorized crane equipped with a drag bucket or clamshell ( grabber ) कि is प्रयुक्त to स्कूप सामग्री इससे the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger.
the क्रेन could be स्तिथ on the बैंको, or शायद आरोहित on a barge.
If the crane is mounted on a barge, the entire vessel is referred to as a dredger.
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ), which are carried away from the dredged area.
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or अन्य उद्देश्य ( प्रायः construction-related ), and has also historically played a significant role in gold mining.
Dredging can create disturbance in जलीय ecosystems, often with adverse impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the International Space Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or crust, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the सतह.
Volcanoes are generally मिला जहाँ tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by अभिसारी tectonic प्लेटों coming साथ.
By contrast, volcanoes are usually not created where two tectonic plates slide past एक another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the East African Rift, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
This प्रकार of volcanism falls under the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has also been explained as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, हैं postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can pose अनेक जोखिमों, not only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic famines.
Benedict Arnold ( June 14, 1801 ) was a general during the American Revolutionary War who originally fought for the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army.
While a general on the American side, he obtained command of the fort at West Point, New York, and planned to surrender it to the British forces.
After the plan was exposed in September 1780, he थी commissioned into the अंग्रेजों Army as a brigadier general.
Born in Connecticut, अर्नाल्ड थी a merchant operating ships on the Atlantic Ocean when the war broke out in 1775.
After joining the growing army outside Boston, he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and bravery.
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775, defensive and delaying tactics despite खोने the बैटल of valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776, the Battle of Ridgefield, Connecticut ( after which he was promoted to major general ), operations in relief of the Siege of Fort Stanwix, and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777, in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years.
Despite अर्नाल्ड 's सफलताओं, he was passed over for promotion by the Continental Congress while other officers claimed credit for some of his accomplishments.
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of corruption or अन्य malfeasance, but most often he was acquitted in formal inquiries.
Congress investigated his accounts and found he was indebted to Congress after spending much of his own money on the युद्ध प्रयत्न.
Frustrated and bitter, Arnold decided to change sides in 1779, and opened secret negotiations with the British.
in जुलाई 1780, he थी offered, जारी to pursue और थी awarded कमांड of वेस्ट पाइंट.
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the fort to the British was exposed when American forces captured अंग्रेजों Major John André carrying papers that revealed the plot.
Upon learning of André 's capture, Arnold fled down the Hudson River to the British sloop-of-war Vulture, narrowly avoiding capture by the forces of George Washington, who had been alerted to the प्लाट.
Arnold received a commission as a brigadier general in the British Army, an सालाना pension of £360, and a lump sum of over £6,000.
He led British forces on raids in Virginia, and against New London and Groton, Connecticut, before the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown.
In the winter of 1782, Arnold moved to London with his second wife, Margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold.
He was well received by King George III and the Tories लकिन खीझ upon by the Whigs.
In 1787, he returned to the merchant business with his sons Richard and Henry in Saint John, New ब्रंसविक.
He returned to London to settle permanently in 1791, where he died ten years later.
क्युकी of the way he changed sides, his name quickly became a in the United States for treason or betrayal.
His conflicting विरासत is recalled in the अस्पष्ट प्रकृति of कुछ of the memorials कि have महरूम लगाई in उसके सम्मान.
Curtis Montague Schilling ( born November 14, 1966 ) is a former American Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer.
He helped lead the Philadelphia Phillies to the World Series in and won World Series championships in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red Sox.
Schilling retired with a करियर postseason record of 11–2.
His.846 postseason winning percentage is a major-league record among pitchers with at least 10 decisions.
After retiring, he founded ग्रीन Monster Games which was renamed 38 Studios.
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012, but just three months later, Schilling laid off his entire staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted in the कम्पनी लापता payroll the previous week.
Star Wars is an अमरीकी epic space opera franchise centered on a film series created by George Lucas.
The film series has spawned a media franchise outside the film series called the Expanded ब्रह्मांड including books, television series, computer and video games, and comic books.
ये पूरक to the film trilogies have resulted in significant development of the series ' fictional universe.
These media kept the franchise क्रियाशील in the अंतरिम between the film trilogies.
The franchise portrays a galaxy that is वर्णित as दूर, far away in the distant past.
It commonly portrays Jedi as a representation of good, in conflict with the Sith, their दुष्ट बंटवारा.
Their weapon of choice, the lightsaber, is commonly recognized in popular संस्कृति.
The fictional universe also contains many themes, especially influences of philosophy and धर्म.
The पहला फिल्मी in the series was originally released on May 25, 1977, under the title Star Wars, by 20th Century Fox, and became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon, followed by two sequels, released at three-year intervals.
Sixteen years after the release of the trilogy 's final फिल्मी, the पहला in a नई prequel trilogy of films was released.
The three prequel films were also released at three-year intervals, with the final film of the trilogy released on May 19, 2005.
In October 2012, The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced that it would produce three new films, with the first film, Star Wars Episode VII, planned for release in 2015.
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies, owning permanent rights for the original film Episode IV : A New Hope, while holding the rights to Episodes I–III, V and VI until May 2020.
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive, with the last film being considered the weakest, while the prequel trilogy received a more mixed reaction, with most of the praise being for the final movie, according to most review एग्रीगेटर वेबसाइटों.
सब छह of the main films in the series were also nominated for or won Academy Awards.
All of the main films have been box office successes, with the overall box office revenue generated by the Star Wars films ( including the theatrical Star Wars : The Clone Wars ) totalling $ 4.49 अरब, making it the third-highest-grossing film series.
The success has also led to multiple re-releases in theaters for the series.
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, though these names are rarely used ) is the process of collecting thrombocytes, more commonly called platelets, a component of blood involved in blood clotting.
The term specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets, which is performed by a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in blood donation that separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor.
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating serious complications from bleeding and hemorrhage in patients who have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction.
This process may also be used therapeutically to treat disorders resulting in extraordinarily ऊँची platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis.
in कंप्यूटर नेटवर्किंग, a बंदरगाहों is an application-specific or process-specific तन्त्र construct सेवारत as a संचार endpoint in a कंप्यूटर 's मेजबान ऑपरेटिंग system.
A port is संबद्ध with an IP address of the host, as well as the type of protocol used for communication.
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a single computer and thereby enable them to share a single physical connection to a packet-switched संजाल जैसे the अंतरजाल.
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport Layer protocols, such as the Transmission Control Protocol ( TCP ) and the User Datagram Protocol ( UDP ) of the अंतरजाल Protocol Suite.
A port is identified for each address and protocol by a 16-bit number, commonly known as the port number.
The port number, added to a computer 's IP address, completes the destination address for a communications session.
That is, data packets are routed across the network to a specific destination IP address, and then, upon reaching the destination computer, are further routed to the specific process bound to the destination port number.
Note that it is the combination of IP address and port number together that must be globally unique.
Thus, different IP addresses or protocols may use the same port number for communication ; e.g., on a given host or interface UDP and TCP may उपयोग the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक, or on a host with two interfaces, both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number.
Of the thousands of enumerated ports, about 250 well-known पोर्ट हैं सुरक्षित by convention to identify specific service types on a host.
In the client-server model of application architecture, ports are used to provide a multiplexing service on each server-side port number that network clients connect to लिये सेवा दीक्षा, बाद जिससे संचार can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers.
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in उत्तरपश्चिम अरकंसास, सहित the cities of Fort Smith, Fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the second, third, fourth, eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state, respectively.
It was created in 2002 in a split from area code 501.
Area code 479 serves Benton, Carroll ( split with area code 870 ), Crawford, Franklin, Johnson, Logan, Madison, Polk, Pope, स्कॉट, सेबेस्टियन, वॉशिंगटन and Yell Counties in Arkansas.
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges against him or her.
In response to arraignment, the accused is अपेक्षित to डालें a plea.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include `` guilty '', `` not guilty '', and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no contest ) and the `` alford plea `` are allowed in some circumstances.
In England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Australia, arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a criminal trial, and involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment.
The defendant is asked whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty to each charge.
In संघीय न्यायालयों of the United States, arraignment takes place in two stages.
the पहला is पुकारा the आरंभिक arraignment और जरूर लो प्लेस भीतर 48 घंटों of an व्यक्तिगत 's गिरफ़्तार, 72 घंटों if the व्यक्तिगत थी गिरफ्तार on the वीकेंड और नहीं समर्थ to go पहले a न्यायधीश जबतक सोमवार.
During this arraignment the defendant is informed of the pending legal charges and is informed of his or her right to retain counsel.
The presiding judge also decides at what amount, if कोई, to set bail.
During the second arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or PIA, the defendant is allowed to enter a plea.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ), known as the Father of English literature, is widely considered the greatest English poet of the Middle Ages and was the first poet to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
While he achieved fame during his lifetime as an author, philosopher, alchemist and astronomer, composing a वैज्ञानिक treatise on the astrolabe for his ten year-old son Lewis, Chaucer also maintained an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat, courtier and diplomat.
Among his many works, which include The Book of the Duchess, the House of Fame, the Legend of Good Women and Troilus and criseyde, he is बेहतरीन ज्ञात today for The Canterbury Tales.
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the देशी, मध्य अंग्रेज़ी, at a समय जब the प्रबल साहित्यिक languages in England were French and Latin.
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard that affected northern Illinois and northwest Indiana, U.S. on January 13 – January 14, 1979.
of snow fell on January 13 alone, setting a new रिकार्ड लिये snow in one calendar day.
By the end of January 14, of snow had गिरे.
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system.
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses, quickly overwhelming capacity, resulting in usual बस commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours.
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets, the overcrowded बसें were obliged to take numerous detours, adding additional time to the commute.
deployment of plows was significantly delayed and when they finally appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall.
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 months, causing ongoing public transit delays and significant problems with कचरा collection.
The city 's inadequate response to the blizzard was blamed primarily on mayor Michael bilandic, जो था assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley.
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne, Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic primary ( who had previously worked with Bilandic in the Daley administration and been fired by Bilandic when the two could not get along ), capitalized on this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 primary.
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day are divided into two periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem, meaning `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem, `` बाद midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 hours numbered : 12 ( acting as शून्य ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour क्लॉक थी विकसित over time from the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th century AD.
स्वास्थ्य बिता प्रति capita, in $ US PPP-adjusted, with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations.
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health परवाह systems before Canada reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada, on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita spending for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., us $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in कनाडा was financed by government, versus 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have come to different conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending.
a 2007 पुनर्विलोकन of सब अध्ययन comparing स्वास्थ्य outcomes in कनाडा और the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल मिला कि `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन मतभेद हैं नहीं सतत. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality रेट is निम्नतर than कि of the U.S., but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of उपलब्धि in the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य, the वितरण of health, the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of service for individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining which healthcare system is superior.
the जो 's study methods were criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some हाल आंकड़ा and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy and very large arachnids belonging to the Theraphosidae family of spiders, of which approximately 900 species have been identified.
This article only describes members of Theraphosidae, although some other members of the same suborder हैं commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most species of tarantulas are not dangerous to humans, and some species have become लोकप्रिय in the exotic pet trade.
The ton is a unit of measure.
It has a long history and has acquired a number of meanings और उपयोग over the years.
It is प्रयुक्त प्रधानतया as a unit of weight, and as a unit of volume.
It can also be used as a माप of energy, for truck classification, or as a colloquial term.
It is derived from the tun, the term applied to a barrel of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 L ), which could weigh around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of स्पेस.
In the United Kingdom the ton is defined as ( avoirdupois pounds ).
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric units, including the tonne ( metric ton ), a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg.
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use for trade many units and terms, including the ton and the term `` metric ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the United States and formerly कनाडा a ton is defined to be.
Where confusion is possible, the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the टन is विशिष्ट by its spelling, but usually pronounced the same as ton, hence the US term `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` मीट्रिक ton '' when it is necessary to make the distinction.
Where accuracy is required the correct term must be used, but for many purposes this is not necessary : the मीट्रिक and long tons differ by only 1.6 %, and the short ton is within 11 % of both.
The ton is the अधिकतम unit of weight referred to in colloquial speech.
The term `` ton '' is also used to refer to a number of units of volume, ranging from in capacity.
It can भी be प्रयुक्त as a ईकाई of उर्जा, expressed as an समतुल्य of कोयले जले, टीएनटी detonated, or in प्रशीतन, बर्फ melted.
In Britain, ton is used in slang in several contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
As a cost or a speed, a ton is widely understood to be £100 or 100 mph.
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship trophy awarded annually to the National Hockey League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of Preston, then- Governor General of Canada, who awarded it to Canada 's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club, which the entire Stanley family supported, with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game.
The first Cup was awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the two professional ice hockey organizations, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association ( PCHA ), reached a gentlemen 's agreement in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup.
बाद a series of league mergers and folds, the Stanley `` Presentation Cup '' was established as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947.
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the original bowl of the `` Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup '', the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '', and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame.
The NHL has कायम प्रभावी कंट्रोल over both the trophy itself and its associated trademarks.
Nevertheless, the NHL does not actually own the trophy, but instead uses it by agreement with the two Trustees of the Cup.
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup, हालांकि the लीग 's सही to outright own trademarks associated with a trophy it does not own has been disputed by some legal experts.
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three major professional sports leagues of North America, a new Stanley Cup is not made each year ; winners keep it until a new champion is पहनाया.
it is असामान्य among ट्राफियां, in कि it रै the names of सब of the जीतना खिलाड़ी, कोच, प्रबन्धन, और क्लबों स्टाफ engraved on इसके chalice.
Initially, a new बैंड added प्रत्येक साल caused the trophy to grow in size, earning the nickname `` Stovepipe Cup ''.
In 1958 the आधुनिक one-piece Cup was designed with a five-band barrel which could contain 13 winning teams per band.
To avoid the Stanley Cup from growing, when the bottom band is full, the oldest band is removed and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame, and a new blank band added to the bottom.
It has been referred to as The Cup, Lord Stanley 's Cup, The Holy Grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug.
the स्टेनली Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and traditions, the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the cup by the winning team.
The original bowl was made of silver and is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 inches ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter.
The current स्टेनली कप, अव्वल साथ a copy of the original bowl, is made of a silver and nickel alloy ; it has a height of 89.54 centimetres ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
Since the 1914–15 season, the Cup has been won a combined 94 times by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams.
Prior to that, the challenge कप थी आयोजित by nine different teams.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times and are currently the last Canadian-based team in the NHL to win the cup after winning it in 1993.
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 1919 क्युकी of a Spanish flu epidemic, and in 2005, as a consequence of the NHL lockout.
The अनानास ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced berries, and the most economically significant plant in the Bromeliaceae family.
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown cutting of the fruit, possibly flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months.
अनानास करता not ripen significantly post-harvest.
Pineapples are consumed fresh, cooked, juiced, and preserved, and are found in a wide array of cuisines.
In addition to consumption, in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are used to produce the textile fiber piña - employed as a component of wall paper and furnishings, amongst other uses.
In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a data type which represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers.
Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may not be अनुमत to contain negative values.
integers are commonly represented in a computer as a group of binary digits.
The size of the grouping varies so the set of पूर्णांक sizes available varies between different types of computers.
Computer hardware nearly always provides a way to represent a processor register or memory address as an integer.
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a large hydro facility, with an installed capacity of.
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to विद्युत generated by hydropower ; the production of electrical power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water.
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy, accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010, and is expected to increase about 3.1 % प्रत्येक साल for the next 25 years.
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the asia-pacific प्रदेश generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010.
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010, representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use.
वहीँ हैं अभी तीन hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW : the Three Gorges Dam in China, Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border, and Guri Dam in Venezuela.
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low, making it a competitive source of renewable विद्युत.
The औसत cost of electricity from a hydro plant larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be ramped up and down very quickly to adapt to changing energy demands.
However, damming interrupts the flow of rivers और can harm local ecosystems, and building large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife.
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the project produces no direct waste, and has a considerably lower output level of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants.
वाइन लड़के at a Greek symposium
The history of वाइन spans हज़ारों of सालो और is closely intertwined साथ the इतिहास of कृषि, भोजन, सभ्यता और मानवता itself.
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known wine production occurred in what is now the country of Georgia around 7000 bce, साथ अन्य notable साइट in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
The world 's oldest known winery ( dated to 3000 BCE ) was discovered in Areni-1 cave in a mountainous area of अर्मेनिया.
URL_http.
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates that domestication of the grapevine took place during the Early Bronze Age in the Near East, Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE.
Evidence of the earliest wine production in Balkans has been uncovered at archaeological sites in northern Greece ( Macedonia ), dated to 4500 BC.
These same साइट also contain remnants of the world 's earliest evidence of crushed grapes.
in मिश्र, वाइन became a भाग of अंकित इतिहास, playing an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in प्राचीन ceremonial जीवन.
Traces of wild wine dating from the second and first millennia BCE have also been found in China.
Moroccan wine Kasher लेबल 1930
The Jewish tradition and use of kosher wine is dating back to biblical टाइम्स.
The long history of the use and production of वाइन throughout ancient Israel is backed up by archeological evidence.
Within the Jewish diaspora communities all around the globe, the traditional and religious use of कोषेर wine continued to this day.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus, was common in ancient Greece and Rome, and many of today 's major wine-producing regions of Western Europe were established with Phoenician and, later, Roman plantations.
Winemaking technology improved considerably during the time of the Roman Empire : many grape varieties and cultivation techniques were known ; the design of the वाइन दबायें उन्नत ; और barrels यहूद विकसित for storing and shipping wine.
Rashi, a medieval French rabbi and called the `` father '' of all commentaries that followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh, earned his living as a vintner.
following the मनाही of रोम और इसके industrial-scale वाइन उत्पादन लिये निर्यात, the ईसाई गिरिजाघर in मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय भी became a कड़ समर्थक of वाइन, जरुरी लिये जश्न of the कैथोलिक द्रव्यमान. whereas वाइन थी हराम in मध्यकालीन इस्लामी संस्कृतियों, इसके उपयोग in ईसाई libation थी widely tolerated.
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the distillation of wine for Islamic medicinal and industrial उद्देश्य ऐसे as परफ्यूम.
Wine production धीरे increased, with consumption burgeoning from the 15th century onwards.
Wine production survived the devastating Phylloxera louse of 1887 and eventually spread to numerous regions throughout the संसार.
जिले of West Bengal
The Indian state of West Bengal borders with Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and the Indian राज्य of Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Sikkim.
The Himalayas lies in the north of the state and the Bay of बंगाल is at the south.
In between them, the river Ganges flows eastwards and its main distributary, the Hooghly River, बहती दक्षिण to पहुँचें the खाड़ी of Bengal.
The Siliguri Corridor, which connects north-east India with rest of the India, lies in the North Bengal region of the state.
Geographically, West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill region, Terai and Doors region, North Bengal plains, Rarh region, Western पठार और ऊँची lands, coastal plains, Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta.
In 1947, when India gained independence, the state of West Bengal was formed with 14 districts, as per partition plan of the then Bengal province of British India.
the पूर्व princely राज्य Koch Bihar joined as a district in 1950, and the former French enclave Chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954.
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia district to the state and to enlargement of West Dinajpur district.
Later, larger districts such as West Dinajpur, 24 Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated.
West Bengal is now divided into nineteen जिले under three divisions.
Districts are administered by ज़िला magistrates, और विभाजन हैं administered by Divisional Commissioners.
कोलकाता, the capital of the state, constitutes the Kolkata district.
Other districts are further divided into प्रशासनिक units such as subdivisions and blocks, administered by SDO and BDO, respectively.
the पंचायती राज रै a three-tier ढांचा in the राज्य.
The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat, which is the Panchayat organization for a collection of villages.
The block-level organizations are called Panchayat samiti, और the district-level organizations are named Zilla Parishad.
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a region that consists of the Caribbean Sea, its islands ( some surrounded by the Caribbean Sea and some bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean ), and the surrounding coasts.
The region is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico and the North American mainland, east of Central America, और उत्तर of South America.
Situated largely on the Caribbean Plate, the region comprises अधिक than 700 islands, islets, reefs, and cays.
( See the list. )
These islands generally रूप द्वीप arcs कि delineate the पूर्वी और उत्तरी किनारे of the caribbean समुद्र.
The Caribbean islands, consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ), are part of the somewhat larger West इंडीज समूहीकरण, जिससे भी शामिल the lucayan द्वीपसमूह ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea.
In a wider भाव, the mainland countries of Belize and Guyana – historically and culturally part of the British West Indies – may be included.
Geopolitically, the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North America and are organized into 30 territories including sovereign states, overseas departments, and dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to May 31, 1962, there was a short-lived country called the संघ of the West Indies composed of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories, all of which were then UK dependencies.
The West Indies cricket team continues to represent many of those nations.
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 cities in the U.S. state of New Hampshire.
For each town/city, the table lists the county to which it belongs, its date of incorporation, इसके population according to the 2010 census, its form of government, and its principal villages.
शहरों are indicated in boldface.
Cities and towns are treated identically under state law.
Cities are just towns whose form of government थी बदला by a special act of the New Hampshire legislature.
However, towns currently are able to change their form of government by simple voter approval of a new municipal charter, साथ several of the more populous towns having already done so.
The main slave routes in मध्यकालीन Africa.
This article discusses systems, इतिहास, and effects of slavery within Africa.
See Arab slave trade, Atlantic slave trade, Maafa, and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` Slave transport in Africa ''.
Europeans usually did not enter the interior regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many centuries, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were आम in many parts of the continent, as they were in much of the ancient world.
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began, many of the local slave systems changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of अफ़्रीकी.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, and criminal slavery were all practiced in विभिन्न parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions, slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and अटलांटिक ).
स्लेव practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the fourth game of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to आठ प्रभाग championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC Championship Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, most career pass attempts, most career interceptions thrown, सबसे लगातार starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a quarterback, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
he is भी referred to by his nickname `` The Gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprise software company headquartered in San Francisco, California.
Though best known for its customer relationship management ( CRM ) product, Salesforce has also expanded into the `` social enterprise arena '' through acquisitions.
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in America by Forbes magazine, as well as number 27 in Fortunes magazine 's 100 Best Companies to कार्य लिये in 2012.
As of अप्रैल 2013, the company is ranked sixth in providing services in marketing and customer service automation.
It is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the S & P 500 index.
Seahorse is the title given to 54 प्रजाति of marine fish in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos अर्थ `` घोड़ा '' और kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
Earth is the third planet from the Sun, and the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System.
It is also the largest of the सौर System 's four terrestrial planets.
It is sometimes referred to as the world or the Blue Planet.
Earth formed approximately 4.54 billion years ago, and life appeared on its surface within its पहला billion years.
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions, which enabled the proliferation of organisms as well as the formation of the ozone layer, which together with Earth 's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land.
The physical properties of the Earth, as well as its geological history and orbit, have allowed life to persist.
Estimates on how much longer the planet will be able to continue to support life range from, to as long as.
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid segments, or tectonic plates, that migrate आरपार the सतह over periods of many millions of years.
परिचय 71 % of the सतह is covered by salt water oceans, with the remainder consisting of continents and islands which together have many lakes and other sources of water that contribute to the hydrosphere.
Earth 's poles are mostly covered with ice that is the solid ice of the Antarctic ice sheet and the sea ice that is the polar ice packs.
The planet 's interior remains active, with a solid iron inner core, a liquid outer core that generates the magnetic field, and a thick layer of relatively solid mantle.
Earth gravitationally interacts साथ अन्य वस्तुएँ in space, especially the Sun and the Moon.
During one orbit around the Sun, the Earth rotates about its own axis 366.26 times, creating 365.26 solar days, or one sidereal year.
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular of its orbital plane, producing seasonal variations on the planet 's surface with a period of one tropical year ( 365.24 solar days ).
The Moon is Earth 's only natural satellite.
It began orbiting the Earth about.
The Moon 's गुरुत्वाकर्षक बातचीत साथ धरती stimulates ocean tides, stabilizes the axial tilt, and gradually slows the planet 's rotation.
The planet is घर to millions of species of life, including humans.
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products of the biosphere योगदान संसाधन कि are used to support a global human population.
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 independent sovereign states, which interact through कूटनीति, travel, trade, and military action.
Human cultures have developed many views of the planet, including its personification as a planetary deity, its shape as flat, its position as the center of the universe, and in the modern Gaia Principle, as a single, self-regulating organism in its own right.
The Magician from the waite-smith tarot, who is depicted using the same tools that modern Wiccans use.
In the neopagan religion of Wicca, a range of magical tools are used in ritual practice.
Each of these tools has different uses and associations, and are used primarily to direct magical energies.
They are used at an altar, अंदर a magic circle.
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca, the tools are often divided into personal tools, which are for use by, and owned by, an individual Wiccan, and आउटटेक टूल्स, प्रयुक्त collectively by the coven.
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as the use of the Square and Compasses ), from which Wicca draws some material, and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
The latter made much use of material from medieval grimoires such as the Key of Solomon, which has many illustrations of जादुई टूल्स और निर्देश लिये their preparation.
Typical eukaryotic cell.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of जीवों to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the कुंजी तरीके a कोशिका gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is considered an exothermic redox प्रतिक्रिया.
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the देह, most of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell.
This difference is because it occurs in अनेक पृथक steps.
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction, no single reaction that comprises it is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar, amino acids और वसीय acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
A stored-pressure fire extinguisher made by Amerex
a अंग्रेजों आग extinguisher with ID sign, call point and fire action sign
A fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or simply an extinguisher, is an क्रियाशील fire protection device used to extinguish or control small fires, often in emergency situations.
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire, such as one which has reached the ceiling, endangers the user ( i.e., no escape route, smoke, explosion hazard, etc. ), or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical pressure vessel containing an agent which can be discharged to बुझा a fire.
In the United States, fire extinguishers, in all buildings other than houses, are generally required to be serviced and inspected by a Fire Protection service company at least annually.
Some jurisdictions require अधिक बारंबार service for fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the type of service performed ( annual inspection, recharge, new आग extinguisher ) and when.
There are two main types of fire extinguishers : stored pressure and cartridge-operated.
In stored pressure units, the expellant is stored in the same कक्ष as the firefighting agent itself.
Depending on the agent used, different propellants हैं used.
With dry chemical extinguishers, nitrogen is typically used ; water and foam extinguishers typically use air.
Stored pressure fire extinguishers are the most common type.
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a separate cartridge that is punctured prior to discharge, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
This type is not as common, used primarily in areas such as industrial facilities, where they receive higher-than-average use.
They have the advantage of simple and prompt recharge, allowing an ऑपरेटर to discharge the extinguisher, recharge it, and return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time.
Unlike stored pressure types, these extinguishers use compressed carbon dioxide instead of nitrogen, although nitrogen cartridges are used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models.
Cartridge संचालित extinguishers हैं उपलब्धियाँ in शुष्क रासायनिक और शुष्क चूर्ण प्रकार in the u.S. और in जल, wetting एजेंट, झाग, शुष्क रासायनिक ( वर्ग एबीसी और b.c. ), और शुष्क चूर्ण ( क्लास d ) प्रकार in the बाकी of the संसार.
Fire extinguishers हैं further divided into handheld and cart-mounted, also called wheeled extinguishers.
हैंडहेल्ड extinguishers तौल इससे 0.5 to 14 गामा ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ), और हैं hence, easily पोर्टेबल by हाथ.
Cart-mounted units typically weigh 23+ kilograms ( 50+ पाउंड ).
These wheeled models are most commonly found at construction sites, airport runways, heliports, as well as docks and marinas.
Native Americans in the United States are the indigenous peoples in North America within the सीमाएँ of the present-day continental United States, Alaska, and the island state of Hawaii.
They are composed of numerous, distinct Native American tribes and ethnic groups, अनेक of जिससे survive as intact political communities.
The terms used to refer to Native Americans have been controversial.
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews, most of the respondents with an expressed preference refer to themselves as American इंडियंस ( or simply Indians ), and this term has been adopted by major newspapers and some academic groups ; however, this term does not typically include Native Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives, such as Aleut, Yup'ik, or Inuit peoples.
Since the end of the 15th century, the migration of Europeans to the Americas, and their importation of Africans as slaves, has led to centuries of विरोध और समायोजन between Old and New World societies.
Europeans created most of the early written historical record about Native Americans after the colonists ' immigration to the Americas.
Many Native Americans lived as hunter-gatherer societies and told their histories by oral traditions.
In many groups, women carried out sophisticated cultivation of numerous varieties of staple crops : maize, beans and squash.
The indigenous cultures were quite different from those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, mostly Christian immigrants from western यूरेशिया.
Many देशी संस्कृतियों यहूद matrilineal ; the people occupied lands for use of the entire community, for hunting or agriculture.
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had developed concepts of individual property rights with respect to land that were extremely different.
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant Europeans, as well as shifting alliances among different nations of each culture through the centuries, caused extensive political tension, ethnic violence and social disruption.
The Native Americans suffered high fatalities from the contact with infectious Eurasian diseases, to which they had no acquired immunity.
Epidemics after European contact caused the greatest loss of life for indigenous populations.
Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what today constitutes the U.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 million to 18 million.
After the colonies revolted against Great Britain and established the United States of America, President George Washington and Henry Knox conceived of the विचार of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as with the Choctaw, or forced ) became a consistent policy through American administrations.
During the 19th सदी, the विचारधारा of manifest destiny became integral to the American nationalist movement.
Expansion of European-American populations to the west after the American Revolution resulted in increasing pressure on Native American lands, warfare between the groups, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act, authorizing the government to relocate Native Americans from their homelands within established states to lands west of the Mississippi River, accommodating European-American expansion.
The first European Americans to encounter the पश्चिमी आंतरिक जनजातियों were generally fur traders and trappers.
There were भी जेसुइट प्रचारकों active in the Northern Tier.
As United States expansion reached into the अमरीकी वेस्ट, settler and miner migrants came into increasing conflict with the Great Basin, Great Plains, and other Western tribes.
These were complex nomadic cultures based on horse culture and seasonal bison hunting.
They carried out strong resistance to United States incursions in the decades after the American Civil War, in a series of Indian Wars, which were frequent up until the 1890s, but जारी into the 20th century.
The transcontinental railroad brought more non-Natives into जनजातीय जमीन in the west.
Over time, the U.S. forced a series of treaties and land cessions by the tribes, and established reservations for them in many western states.
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits, but European-American agricultural technology of the time was inadequate for often dry reservation lands.
In 1924, Native Americans who were not already U.S. citizens were granted citizenship by Congress.
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship with the United राज्य because they may be members of nations, tribes, or bands with sovereignty and treaty rights.
Central अमेरिका ( ) is the central geographic region of the Americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North American continent, which connects with South America on the southeast.
When considered part of the unified continental model, it is considered a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven countries : Belize, Costa Rica, El साल्वाडोर, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama.
Central America is भाग of the mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, which extends from northern Guatemala through central Panama.
It is bordered by Mexico to the north, the Caribbean Sea to the east, the North Pacific Ocean to the west, and Colombia to the south-east.
Central America is an area of, or almost 0.1 % of the धरती 's surface.
As of 2009, its जनसांख्यिकी was estimated at 41,739,000.
it रै a घनत्व of 77 लोगों प्रति वर्गाकार kilometer.
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama television series created by Bill Lawrence that aired from October 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on NBC और बाद ABC.
The series follows the lives of employees at the fictional Sacred Heart teaching hospital.
The title is a खेल on surgical scrubs and a term for a low-ranking person because at the beginning of the series, most of the main characters were medical interns.
The series features fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, and surreal vignettes presented mostly as the daydreams of the सेंट्रल अक्षर, dr. John `` J.D. ''
Dorian, who is निभाई by Zach Braff.
Actors starring alongside Braff in the first eight seasons included Sarah Chalke, Donald Faison, Neil Flynn, Ken Jenkins, John C. McGinley और जुडी Reyes.
The series has also featured multiple guest appearances by film actors, such as Brendan Fraser, Heather Graham, and Colin Farrell.
In the ninth season, many new डाल सदस्यों were introduced and the show setting moved from a hospital to a medical school.
Out of the original cast, only Braff, Faison and McGinley became regular cast members, while the others with the exception of Reyes, made अतिथि दिखावे.
Braff appeared in six episodes of the ninth season before departing.
केरी bishé, eliza कूप, डेव फ्रेंको और माइकल mosley became श्रेणी regulars साथ bishé बनने the दिखाएँ 's new narrator.
Scrubs premiered on अक्तूबर 2, 2001 on NBC.
The श्रेणी received a Peabody Award in 2006.
During the seventh season, एनबीसी announced that it would not renew the show.
Shortly after the seventh season finale, ABC announced it had picked up the eighth season of the series, which began January 6, 2009.
The ninth season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
On May 14, 2010, ABC announced it had officially canceled Scrubs.
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine, used in Netherton at the ironworks of M W Grazebrook.
Re-erected on the A38 ( M ) in बर्मिंघम, UK
a भाप इंजन is a ऊष्मा इंजन कि performs mechanical कार्य using भाप as इसके working द्रव.
Using boiling water to produce mechanical motion goes back about 2,000 years, but early devices were not practical.
Since the late 1700s steam engines have become a major source of mechanical शक्ति.
The first applications were removing water from mines.
In 1781 James Watt patented a steam engine that उत्पादित continuous rotative motion.
These 10 hp engines enabled a wide range of manufacturing machinery to be संचालित.
The engines could be sited anywhere that water and coal or wood fuel could be obtained.
By 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible.
Steam engines could also be applied to vehicles such as कर्षण engines and the railway locomotives which are commonly just called steam engines outside America.
The stationary steam engine was a key component of the Industrial Revolution, allowing factories to locate where water power was unavailable.
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the electric power in the United States using a variety of heat sources.
Steam engines are external combustion engines, where the working fluid is separate इससे the combustion products.
Non-combustion ऊष्मा स्त्रोत such as solar power, nuclear power or geothermal energy may be used.
The ideal thermodynamic cycle used to analyze इस process is called the Rankine cycle.
In the cycle, water is heated into steam in a boiler until it reaches a high pressure.
When expanded through pistons or turbines, mechanical work is किया.
The reduced-pressure steam is तब सघन and pumped back into the boiler.
in सामान्य उपयोग, the पद भाप इंजन can refer to either the एकीकृत भाप पौधे ( सहित बायलरों इत्यादि. ) ऐसे as रेल भाप इंजनों और पोर्टेबल इंजन, or may refer to the पिस्टन or टर्बाइन मशीनरी अलोन, as in the बीम इंजन और stationary भाप इंजन.
Specialized devices such as steam hammers and steam pile drivers are dependent on steam supplied from a separate boiler.
A mill engine from Stott Park Bobbin Mill, cumbria, England
A steam locomotive in Germany.This class of engine थी निर्मित in 1942 – 1950 and operated commercially until 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is the third official single from rapper Ludacris ' एल्बम Word of Mouf.
The single features Mystikal and I-20.
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Ludacris 's first top ten hit on the chart, it also reached # 3 on Hot Rap Tracks and # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks.
Puerto Rican reggaeton duo Maicol & Manuel sampled the song on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo.
The song is also featured in episode 2, Series One of अंग्रेजों teen comedy/drama Skins.
The song was also used by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Montel Vontavious Porter during his short stint in Ring of Honor.
It was also used for April Hunter in various स्वतंत्र circuits.
It was featured in the movie ATL starring T.I., and ' Hancock, ' although in the latter, the clean version was used.
A snippet of the सोंग is निभाई दौरान traffic reports on many radio stations, usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
Retired NBA star और now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is featured in the music video.
The song has been covered by चट्टान बैंड प्रारंभ ट्रबल, on उनके एल्बम प्रत्येक समाधान रै इसके प्रॉब्लम.
It was featured on British sitcom The Inbetweeners when the characters Jay and Neil took Will on a 'pussy patrol ' in jay 's red Nissan Micra.
It was sampled by Girl Talk on the first track of his album All दिन, `` oh No ''.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories and dependencies, and head of the 54-member राष्ट्रमंडल of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड and, in some of her realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is फिलहाल the दूसरी longest लिये a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in लंदन और educated privately at home.
उसके पिता acceded to the सिंहासन as जार्ज vi in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai एडवर्ड viii, इससे जिससे समय वो was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom she has four children : Charles, Anne, एंड्रयू, and Edward.
Her coronation service took place in 1953 and was the first to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen प्रमुख constitutional changes in her realms, such as devolution in the United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of her grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major events in the Queen 's शासनकाल have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the Falklands War, wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of प्रिंस फिलिप 's ताऊ, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal परिवार और republican sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
Christianity is the largest religion listed by Australians in the national census.
In the 2011 Census, 61.1 % of australians were listed as Christian.
Australia has no official state religion and the Australian Constitution protects freedom of religion.
The presence of Christianity in Australia began with the arrival of the First Fleet of British convicts in 1788.
The religion grew to account for 96.1 % of the national population at the time of the Federation of Australia in 1901.
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of England in Australia ) remained the largest denomination until 1986, when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia.
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections of the population have diversified the demographics of धर्म in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011, the largest denominations were either Roman Catholic ( 25 % ) or Anglican ( 17 % ), with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia and there are large and growing Pentecostal groups, such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church.
The festivals of Easter and क्रिसमस are public holidays in Australia.
Around a quarter of students attend church schools and Christian organisations are leading non-government providers of health and welfare services through organisations like Catholic Health Australia, Anglicare, UnitingCare Australia, the मोक्ष फौज और st विंसेंट de पॉल समाज.
Historically significant ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Christians have included Rev Dr John Dunmore Lang, Saint Mary MacKillop, Catherine Helen Spence, Pastor David Unaipon, the Reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello Baptist minister and current CEO of World Vision Australia, Frank Brennan, Jesuit human rights lawyer, Cardinal George Pell, Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, Phillip Aspinall the current Anglican Primate and Archbishop of Brisbane, केविन रड, पूर्व मजदूर प्रधान Minister, and Tony Abbott, leader for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party.
Charter creating Collegiate School, which became Yale College, October 9, 1701
Yale University is a private Ivy League research university located in New Haven, Connecticut.
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of Connecticut, the विश्वविद्यालयों is the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States.
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate School '', the institution traces its roots to 17th-century clergymen who sought to establish a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony.
In 1718, the College थी renamed `` Yale College '' to honor a gift from Elihu Yale, a governor of the British East India Company.
in 1861, the ग्रैजुएट स्कूल of कला और sciences became the पहला u.S. संस्था to पुरस्कार the phd. yale became a founding सदस्य of the संघ of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों in 1900.
Yale College was transformed, beginning in the 1930s, through the establishment of residential colleges : 12 now exist and two more are नियोजित.
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to teach and advise about 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate and professional students.
लगभग सब tenured professors सिखा undergraduate पाठ्यक्रम, अधिक than 2,000 of जिससे हैं offered annually.
The University 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion, the second-largest of any academic institution in the world.
Yale 's system of more than two dozen पुस्तकालयों holds 12.5 million volumes.
49 Nobel Laureates have महरूम संबद्ध with the University as students, faculty, and staff.
Yale has produced many notable alumni, including five U.S. Presidents, 19 U.S. Supreme Court justices, और अनेक foreign heads of state.
At the graduate level, Yale Law School, yale स्कूल of आर्ट, और yale स्कूल of Drama are consistently ranked the top programs in their field.
Yale Law School is the most selective law school in the United States.
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the Yale bulldogs in the NCAA Division I Ivy League.
The oldest intercollegiate athletic event in the United States is the Yale-Harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub from the family Asteraceae, which grows in arid and semi-arid conditions, throughout a range of cold desert, steppe, and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North America.
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several related members of the genus Artemisia, such as California Sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ).
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia species are the dominant plants across large portions of the Great जलाशय, covering some 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states.
It is the state flower of Nevada.
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a variety of species, such as sage grouse, pronghorn antelope, gray vireo, pygmy rabbit, and mule deer.
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West of उत्तर america—especially for preventing infection in wounds, stopping internal bleeding, and treating headaches and colds.
Chemically, the active medicinal constituents include camphor, terpenoids, और tannins.
Several major threats exist to sage brush ecosystems, including human settlements, conversion to agricultural land, livestock grazing, invasive plant species, wildfires, and climate change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email service offered by the अमरीकी search engine company Yahoo !
It was launched in 1997, and, according to comScore, याहू ! Mail is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012.
Currently, Yahoo ! offers three versions of Yahoo ! Mail.
The परंपरागत `` Yahoo ! Mail Classic '' continues the availability of the original interface introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax interface, drag-and-drop features, improved search functionality, keyboard shortcuts, address auto-complete, tabs, and other updated features.
In October 2010, Yahoo ! released a beta version of याहू ! मेल, जिससे शामिल improvements to the design, performance, search functionality, and Facebook integration.
In May 2011, beta testing for the new version stopped, and it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail.
In early 2008, Yahoo ! began offering unlimited mail storage to its users in response to heated competition in the free web-mail market खण्ड.
On जून 27, 2009, Yahoo ! Messenger was integrated with Yahoo ! Mail.
Tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized urban port city and the county seat of Pierce County, Washington, United States.
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound, southwest of Seattle, northeast of the state capital, Olympia, and northwest of Mount Rainier National Park.
The population was 198,397, according to the 2010 census.
Tacoma is the second-largest city in the Puget Sound area and the third largest in the state.
Tacoma also serves as the center of business activity for the South Sound प्रदेश, which has a population of around 1 million people.
Tacoma अपनाया इसके नाम बाद the आसपास माउंट rainier, originally पुकारा माउंट tahoma.
It is ज्ञात as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the western terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad in the late 19th century.
the decision of the railroad was influenced by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbor, Commencement Bay.
By connecting the bay with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` When rails meet sails. ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of Tacoma, a center of international trade on the Pacific Coast and Washington state 's largest port.
Like most central cities, Tacoma suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th century as a result of suburbanization and divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the शहर कोर शामिल the विश्वविद्यालयों of वॉशिंगटन टकोमा ; टकोमा कड़ी, the first modern electric light rail service in the state ; the state 's highest density of art and history museums ; and a restored urban waterfront, the Thea Foss Waterway.
With a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad workers of the 19th century, to the longshoremen of the 20th century, to the Labor Ready workers of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough, gritty image.
a सोंग परिचय टकोमा, `` thrice सब अमरीकी '', by अमरीकी singer-songwriter और पूर्व निवासी neko मामला, describes it as `` a dusty बूढ़ा गहना in the दक्षिण puget ध्वनि / जहाँ the कारखानों निकले / और the timber 's सब काटें down ''.
Tacoma-Pierce County has been named one of the most livable क्षेत्रों in the country.
Tacoma was also recently सूचीबद्ध as the 19th most walkable city in the country.
In contrast, the city is also ranked as the most stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 सर्वेक्षण.
In 2006, women 's पत्रिका स्वः named Tacoma the `` Most Sexually Healthy City '' in the United States.
In 2012, The Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` Gayest City in America '', in part because of the large diversity of public offices held, and Washington State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry.
Tacoma is famous for the 1940 collapse of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge.
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San Diego metropolitan area, the seventh largest city in Southern California, the fourteenth largest city in the State of California, and the 77th-largest city in the United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 243,916 as of the 2010 census.
Located just from downtown San Diego and from the Mexican border in the South Bay region of the metropolitan area, the city is at the center of one of the richest economic and culturally विविध zones in the United States.
Chula Vista is so named because of its दर्शनीय location between the San Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills.
Founded in the early 19th century, fast population growth has recently been observed in the city.
As the second largest city in San Diego County, Chula Vista has quickly become a destination popular to many tourists.
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United States Olympic Training centers and popular tourist destinations include Cricket Wireless Amphitheater, the Chula Vista marina, and the Chula Vista Nature Center.
Metes and bounds is a system or method of describing land, real property ( in contrast to personal property ) or real estate.
The system has been used in England for many centuries, और is still used there in the definition of general boundaries.
By custom, it was लागू in the original Thirteen Colonies that became the United States, and in many other land jurisdictions based on English common law.
Typically the system uses physical features of the local geography, साथ with directions and distances, to define and describe the boundaries of a parcel of land.
The boundaries are described in a running prose style, working around the पार्सल in sequence, from a point of beginning, returning back to the same point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds.
It may include references to other adjoining parcels ( and their owners ), and it, in turn, could also be referred to in later surveys.
At the time the description is compiled, it may have been marked on the ground with permanent monuments placed where there were no suitable natural monuments.
The term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the measurement of each सीधा चलाएं, निर्दिष्ट by a distance between the terminal points, and an orientation or direction.
A direction may be a सरल कम्पास bearing, or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods.
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary description, such as along a certain watercourse, a stone वॉल, an adjoining public road way, or an existing building.
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g. farms ), and political subdivisions ( e.g. town boundaries ) where precise definition is not required or would be far too expensive, or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description.
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist and mathematician who is widely regarded as one of the most influential scientists of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution.
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of प्राकृतिक दर्शनशास्त्र '' ), first published in 1687, laid the foundations for most of classical mechanics.
Newton also made seminal योगदान to optics and shares credit with Gottfried Leibniz for the invention of the infinitesimal calculus.
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation that dominated scientists ' view of the physical universe for the next three सदियां.
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth and that of celestial bodies could be described by the same principles.
By deriving Kepler 's laws of ग्रहीय गति इससे उसके गणितीय description of gravity, Newton removed the last doubts about the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope and developed a theory of रंग based on the observation that a prism decomposes white light into the many colours of the visible spectrum.
He also formulated an empirical विधि of cooling and studied the speed of sound.
In addition to his work on the calculus, as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power series, generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents, and developed Newton 's method for approximating the roots of a function.
Newton was a fellow of Trinity College and the दूसरी lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge.
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian and, unusually लिये a सदस्य of the कैम्ब्रिज faculty, he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England, perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences, Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy and biblical chronology, but most of his work in those areas remained अप्रकाशित until long after his death.
In his later life, Newton became अध्यक्ष of the Royal Society.
He also served the British government as Warden और निपुण of the Royal Mint.
Prof. Walter Lewin explains Newton 's law of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
Satellites and projectiles all obey Newton 's law of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the universe attracts every other point mass साथ a फ़ोर्स कि is directly proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them.
( Separately it was shown that large spherically symmetrical masses attract and are attracted as if all their mass were concentrated at their centers. )
This is a general physical law derived from empirical observations by what न्यूटन पुकारा induction.
It is a part of classical mechanics and was formulated in Newton 's work Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ), first published on 5 July 1687.
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society, Robert hooke बना a claim that Newton had obtained the inverse square law from him – see History section below. )
In modern language, the law states the following:
Assuming SI units, F is measured in newtons ( N ), m1 and m2 in kilograms ( kg ), r in meters ( m ), and the constant G is approximately equal to.
The value of the constant G was first accurately determined from the results of the Cavendish experiment conducted by the British scientist हेनरी Cavendish in 1798, although Cavendish did not himself calculate a numerical value for G.
This experiment was also the first test of Newton 's सिद्धान्त of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71 years after Newton 's death, so none of Newton 's calculations could use the value of G ; instead he could only calculate a force relative to another force.
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of electrical forces, which is used to calculate the magnitude of electrical force between two charged bodies.
Both are inverse-square laws, in which force is inversely आंशिक to the square of the distance between the bodies.
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of the masses, and the electrostatic constant in place of the gravitational constant.
Newton 's law has since been superseded by Einstein 's theory of general relativity, but it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity.
Relativity is required only when there is a need लिये चरम precision, or when dealing with gravitation for extremely massive and dense objects.
White and red flags, representing Iraqi and American deaths, sit in the grass quadrangle of The Valley Library on the corvallis, ऑरेगॉन, campus of Oregon State University.
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( not related to Iraq Body Count project ), the flags aim to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War. ''
( May 2008 )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq, as well as the activities of the विभिन्न हथियारबंद समूह ऑपरेटिंग in the देश ) have आइये in अनेक फ़ॉर्म, और the सटीकता of the सूचना available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly.
The table below summarizes various estimates of the Iraqi casualty figures.
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational coalition, the death toll is carefully tracked and updated daily, and the names और छायाचित्र of those मारे in कार्रवाई as well as in accidents have been published widely.
A total of 4,486 U.S. soldiers यहूद मारे in Iraq between 2003 and 2012.
regarding the Iraqis, however, information on both military and civilian casualties is both less precise and less consistent.
Estimates of casualty levels are available from reporters on the scene, from officials of involved संगठन, और इससे समूह that summarize information on incidents reported in the news media.
The word `` casualties `` in its most सामान्य भाव includes the injured as well as the dead.
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely, partly because it is not obvious what should be counted : should only those injuries serious enough to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do illnesses or चोटों caused by accidents count, or should the focus be restricted to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using different definitions may arrive at very different numbers, and sometimes the precise परिभाषा is not clearly specified.
Asalto al coche ( Robbery of the coach ), by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman was a चोर and brigand who preyed on travellers.
This type of outlaw usually travelled and robbed by horse, as compared to a footpad who travelled and robbed on foot.
आरोहित लुटेरों यहूद widely माना to be socially श्रेष्ठ to footpads.
Such robbers operated in Great Britain and आयरलैंड from the Elizabethan era until the early 19th century.
The word highwayman is first known to be used in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms included `` knights of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road. ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century North American highwaymen were road agents in some instances for mountain bandits while in other cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians.
In the same time period in Australia, they were known as bushrangers.
Earvin `` जादू '' जॉनसन, Jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball player who played point guard for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ).
After winning championships in high school and college, Johnson was selected first overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers.
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in his rookie season, and won four more championships with the Lakers during the 1980s.
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing that he had contracted HIV, but returned to play in the 1992 All-Star Game, winning the All-Star MVP Award.
After protests from his fellow players, he retired again for four years, but returned in 1996, at age 36, to play 32 games for the Lakers before retiring for the third and final time.
Johnson 's career achievements include three NBA MVP Awards, nine NBA Finals appearances, twelve All-Star games, and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations.
He led the league in regular-season assists four times, and is the NBA 's all-time leader in average assists per game, at 11.2.
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream टोली ``, the u.S. बास्केट team that won the Olympic gold medal in 1992.
After leaving the NBA in 1992, Johnson formed the Magic Johnson All-Stars, a barnstorming team that travelled around the world playing exhibition games.
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History in 1996, and enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002.
He was rated the greatest NBA point guard of all time by ESPN in 2007.
His friendship and rivalry with Boston Celtics star Larry Bird, whom he faced in the 1979 NCAA फाइनल and three NBA championship series, were well documented.
Since his retirement, Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/ एड्स रोकथाम and safe sex, as well as an entrepreneur, philanthropist, broadcaster and motivational speaker.
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years, and was part of a group that purchased the Los एंजिल्स Dodgers in 2012.
Allium cells in अलग phases of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes ( left ) and prokaryotes ( सही )
The cell is the basic structural, functional and biological unit of all known living organisms.
It is the smallest unit of life that is classified as a living thing ( except virus, which consists only from DNA/RNA covered by प्रोटीन और lipids ), and is often called the building block of life.
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a membrane, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids.
Organisms can be classified as unicellular ( consisting of a single cell ; including most जीवाणु ) or बहुकोशिकीय ( including plants and animals ).
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to species, Humans contain about 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells.
Most plant and animal cells are between 1 and 100 micrometres and therefore are दृश्य only under the microscope.
The cell was खोजा by Robert Hooke in 1665.
The cell theory, first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann, states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells, that all cells come from preexisting cells, that vital functions of an organism occur भीतर कोशिकाएं, और कि all cells contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells.
कोशिकाएं उभरा on planet Earth at least 4.0–4.3 billion years ago.
The word cell comes इससे the Latin cella, meaning `` small room ''.
The वर्णनात्मक term for the smallest living biological structure was coined by Robert Hooke in a book he published in 1665 when he compared the cork cells he saw through his microscope to the small rooms monks lived in.
Grecian सूत्र is a men 's hair coloring product in the United States.
Canada and Europe previously banned the product क्युकी of its use of lead acetate.
A मोटर scooter 's front with an impractical number and variety of headlamps, added for decorative purposes
A headlamp is a बल्ब संलग्न to the सामने of a गाडी to लाइट the सड़क ahead.
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age, spurred by the great disparity between daytime and nighttime ट्रैफ़िक fatalities : the u.S. नेशनल राजमार्ग ट्रैफ़िक Safety Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark, despite only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness.
While it is common for the term headlight to be used interchangeably in informal discussion, headlamp is the term for the device itself, जबकि हेडलाइट properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device.
Other vehicles, such as trains and aircraft, are required to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps are often used on bicycles, and are जरूरी in some jurisdictions.
They can be powered by a battery or a small electrical generator on the wheel.
Additionally automotive night vision systems work to supplement headlamps.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for women and girls of many societies worldwide.
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, and आचरण, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and परंपरागत bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly संबद्ध साथ धारणाएं of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, राजनैतिक activist, लेखक और बात show host.
Goldberg made her फिल्मी डेब्यू in the रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best अभिनेत्री और जीती उसके पहला Golden Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, she played oda mae भूरा, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, The Player, बना in अमेरिका, How Stella Got Her Groove Back, Girl, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack फ्लैश, और as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 एमी Awards for her work in television.
वो थी co-producer of the लोकप्रिय खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड वर्गों इससे 1998 to 2004.
She has been the moderator of the daytime talk show The View since 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two Daytime Emmys, two Golden Globes, a Tony ( for production, नहीं एक्टिंग ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, four People 's Choice Awards, and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood चलना of कीर्ति.
She is one of the few entertainers who have won an एमी, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Award.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग of 30 franchised member clubs, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the world, and one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, after the suspension of operations of its predecessor organization, the National हॉकी संघ ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It started with four teams and, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The स्वदेश to जिससे the नाम of the league originally referred was Canada, although the league has now been binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States.
After a labour dispute कि led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies, such as houseflies, cheese flies, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes and Crane flies.
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be taken as such ; in many standard textbooks of entomology it does not appear in the index at all.
in अनेक non-technical texts the term is used for insect larvae in general.
Other sources have coined उनके अपना परिभाषाएं ; for example : ``...
The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared... '' and ``... Applied to the footless लार्वे of dipters. ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of wide importance in ecology and medicine ; among other roles, various species are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage, attacking crops and foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, and causing myiasis.
Herod (, hordos, यूनानी :, Hērōdēs ), also known as Herod the Great ( 73/74 BCE – 4 BCE in Jericho ), was a Roman client king of Judea.
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is described as `` a madman who murdered his own परिवार and a great many rabbis ``.
He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere, including his expansion of the Second Temple in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima.
Important details of his जीवनी हैं gleaned from the works of the 1st century CE Roman–Jewish historian Josephus Flavius.
The Romans made Herod 's son, Herod Archelaus, ethnarch of Judea, Samaria, and Idumea ( biblical Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 CE, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman emperor Augustus who then combined Samaria, Judea proper and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41.
Herod 's other son Herod Antipas was tetrarch of Galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE.
ABO blood group antigens present on red blood cells और igm antibodies उपस्थित in the serum
The abo रक्त group system is the most important blood type system ( or blood group system ) in human blood transfusion.
the संबद्ध anti-a और anti-b antibodies हैं प्रायः igm antibodies, जिससे हैं प्रायः उत्पादित in the पहला सालो of जीवन by sensitization to पर्यावरणीय substances ऐसे as खाना, जीवाणु, and viruses.
ABO blood types are also present in some other animals, for example apes such as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common year starting on Tuesday ( link will display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar.
Northville is an affluent city located in and divided by Oakland and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of मिशिगन.
The area is a suburb of महानगर Detroit.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,970 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Most of the city is in Oakland County, and is surrounded by the city of Novi.
The Wayne County portion is surrounded by northville Township.
Northville is परोसा by Northville Public Schools.
The city is located northeast of Ann Arbor and northwest of Detroit.
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2, 1925 ) is an American actress and vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous stage plays and musicals, feature films, and many television programs.
She is known for her performance of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical Company, her 2001 one-woman show, Elaine Stritch at Liberty, and recently for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
She has been nominated for the Tony Award five टाइम्स in विभिन्न categories.
Stritch is also a three-time Emmy Award winner.
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of young अपराधियों sentenced to कार्य in a community service programme, where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm.
the श्रेणी खोली in 2009 और is फिलहाल जारी.
Antonia Thomas, Iwan Rheon, Lauren Socha, Nathan Stewart-Jarrett, and Robert Sheehan are introduced as अलीशा Daniels, Simon Bellamy, Kelly Bailey, Curtis Donovan, and Nathan Young respectively.
Sheehan बाएँ after the second series, replaced in the third by Joseph Gilgun as Rudy Wade.
After the fourth series was announced Rheon, Thomas and Socha had left their roles and would be replaced by new characters Karla Crome, Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe, as Jess, Finn and Alex respectively.
Midway through the fourth series, Stewart-Jarrett left जबकि नताशा O'Keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith.
on 19 कूच 2013, Channel 4 announced at a press event that they have renewed Misfits for a fifth and final series containing 8 episodes.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He थी a 20-year दिग्गज of the NFL, having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
he थी traded to ग्रीन खाड़ी on फ़रवरी 10, 1992, लिये the 19th चुनें in the 1992 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback लिये the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
he बना an एनएफएल रिकार्ड 297 लगातार starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC Championship खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, most career pass attempts, most career interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a quarterback, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by his nickname `` The Gunslinger ''.
The following is a list of notable aircraft hijackings around the world.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly known as the web ), is a system of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, one can view web pages that may contain text, images, videos, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access सूचना of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year.
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from Oregon, United States, known for his proclivity for opposing his parties ' leadership, and specifically for his opposition to the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds.
Born in Madison, Wisconsin, and शिक्षित at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Minnesota Law School, Morse moved to Oregon in 1930 and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law.
During World War II he was elected to the United States Senate as a Republican ; he became an Independent after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952.
While an स्वतंत्र, he नियत a रिकार्ड लिये performing the दूसरी longest one-person filibuster in the इतिहास of the सीनेट.
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955, and was reelected twice while a member of that party.
Morse made a brief run for the Democratic Party 's presidential nomination in 1960.
A few years later, Morse was one of only two Senators who opposed the Gulf of tonkin Resolution, which authorized the president to take military action in Vietnam without a declaration of war.
He continued to speak out against the war in the ensuing years, and lost his 1968 bid for reelection to Bob Packwood, who criticized his strong opposition to the war.
मोर्स बना two more bids for reelection to the Senate before his death in 1974.
In parliamentary procedure, a motion to table has two different and contradictory meanings:
in the संयुक्त राज्य, to तालिका प्रायः अर्थात् the to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to मूव लिये postponement of विचार ; a प्रस्ताव to बर्खास्तगी विचार of a स्थगित motion.
Much less often, it means a motion to `` put on the table '' : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ), a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world.
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom, to table means to move to place [ the topic ] upon the table ( or to move to place on the table ) : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
Both the American and the British dialects have the sense of `` to table '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the table.
The difference is the idea of what the table is for, that of a shelf off to the side, or an क्रियाशील work bench.
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work bench, with the topic being the center of attention, considered and discussed by all until it can be resolved, at which point it is taken off the 'table '.
The American sense is that the तालिका is like that of a shelf, archive, or long-term storage device, where the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there.
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 American 3D computer animated comedy-drama prison film, and the third installment in the Toy Story series.
It was produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
Directed by Lee Unkrich, the film was released worldwide from June through October in Disney Digital 3-D, RealD, and IMAX 3D.
Toy Story 3 was also the first film to be released theatrically with Dolby Surround 7.1 sound.
The screenplay was लिखा by Michael Arndt, while Unkrich wrote the story along with John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton, respectively director and co-writer of the two first films.
The plot focuses on the toys Woody, Buzz Lightyear, and their friends dealing with an uncertain future as their owner, Andy, prepares to leave for college.
Actors Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Don Rickles, Estelle Harris, जॉन ratzenberger, Wallace Shawn, Jeff Pidgeon, Jodi Benson, R. Lee Ermey, John Morris, and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films.
Jim Varney, who played Slinky Dog in the first two films, and Joe Ranft, who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy, both died before production began on Toy Story 3.
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by Blake Clark ( a friend of Varney ), while ranft 's वर्ण और विभिन्न others were written out of the story.
New characters शामिल प्रदर्शन by Ned Beatty, Timothy Dalton, Kristen Schaal, Bonnie Hunt, Whoopi Goldberg, Jeff Garlin, Richard Kind, and Michael Keaton.
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening day North American gross for an animated film unadjusted लिये महंगाई, और a बिग opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for a Pixar film, as well as the highest-grossing खोलने weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June.
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, दोनो in the United States and Canada, and worldwide.
In early August, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North अमरीकी बक्सा office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ), and the highest-grossing animated film of all time worldwide ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that month, Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of all time.
Toy Story 3 was nominated for five Academy Awards, including Best Picture, बेहतरीन adapted पटकथा, and Best Sound Editing.
It was the third animated film ( after Beauty and the Beast and Up ) to be nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture.
It won the awards for Best Animated Feature and Best Original Song.
जॉन levell starks ( born अगस्त 10, 1965 ) is an अमरीकी रिटायर्ड पेशेवर बास्केट शूटिंग गार्ड.
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' और 190 pounds during his NBA playing career.
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four colleges in his native Oklahoma, including Oklahoma State University, he gained कीर्ति जबकि playing लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices, such as mobile phones, digital cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet कंप्यूटर.
The Secure Digital मानक is maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ).
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of product categories and more than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital format includes four card families available in three different form factors.
The four परिवारों हैं the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
the तीन form factors are the original size, the `` mini '' size, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of form factors and device families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards, but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer greater capacity than the host device can handle.
a नए कार्ड may उपयोग a संचिका प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र can नहीं navigate.
Use of an SDIO card requires the host यंत्र be designed for the input/output functions the card provides.
The organization of the कार्ड was changed starting with the SDHC family.
Some vendors produced SDSC ताश above 1 GB before the SDA had standardized a method of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its specifications and assure users of compatibility.
Hugh John Mungo Grant ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a अंग्रेजों actor and film producer.
He has received a Golden Globe, a BAFTA, और an मानद César.
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25 theatrical releases worldwide.
Grant achieved international stardom after appearing in रिचर्ड Curtis 's successful Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He used this breakthrough role as a बारंबार cinematic persona दौरान the 1990s, delivering comic performances in mainstream films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ).
By the turn of the 21st century, he had established himself as a leading man skilled साथ a satirical comic talent.
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), About A Boy ( 2002 ), Love Actually ( 2003 ), and American Dreamz ( 2006 ).
He later played against type with अनेक कैमियो भूमिकाएँ in the epic drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film उद्योग, ग्रान्ट is cited as an anti-film star who approaches his roles like a character actor, and attempts to make his acting appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant touch of irony / sarcasm and studied physical mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions.
The entertainment media 's coverage of Grant 's life off the big screen has often overshadowed his work as a thespian.
He has महरूम गायन परिचय his disrespect for the profession of acting, and in his disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media.
In a career spanning 30 years, Grant has repeatedly claimed that acting is not a true कॉलिंग लकिन बस a job he fell into.
The Han राजवंश ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 AD ) was an imperial dynasty of China, preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
It was founded by the rebel leader Liu Bang, known posthumously as Emperor Gaozu of Han.
It was briefly बाधित by the Xin Dynasty ( 9–23 AD ) of the former regent Wang Mang.
This interregnum separates the Han into two अवधि : the पश्चिमी Han ( 206 BC – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ).
Spanning over four centuries, the period of the Han Dynasty is considered a सुनहरी आयु in Chinese history.
To this day, China 's majority ethnic group refers to itself as the `` Han people '' and the Chinese script is referred to as `` हान वर्ण ``.
The Han Empire was divided into areas directly controlled by the central government, known as commanderies, और a क्रमांक of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
These kingdoms gradually lost all vestiges of their independence, particularly following the Rebellion of the Seven States.
The Xiongnu, a nomadic confederation which dominated the eastern Eurasian Steppe, defeated the Han army in बैटल in 200 BC.
Following the defeat, a राजनैतिक marriage alliance was negotiated in which the Han became the de facto inferior partner.
When, despite the treaty, the Xiongnu continued to raid Han borders, Emperor Wu of हान ( r. 141–87 BC ) launched several military campaigns against them.
The ultimate हान विजय in these wars eventually forced the Xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries.
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the vast trade network known as the Silk Road, which reached as दूर as the Mediterranean world.
Han forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into two competing nations, the Southern and Northern Xiongnu, and forced the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River.
Despite these victories, the territories north of हान 's borders were quickly overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation.
After 92 AD, the palace eunuchs increasingly शामिल themselves in अदालत राजनीती, engaging in हिंसक शक्ति struggles between the विभिन्न consort clans of the empresses और सम्राज्ञी dowagers, causing the हान 's परम downfall.
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist धार्मिक समाजों which instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion.
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ), the palace eunuchs suffered wholesale massacre by military officers, allowing members of the aristocracy और सैन्य राज्यपालों to become warlords and divide the empire.
When Cao Pi, किंग of वेई, usurped the सिंहासन इससे सम्राट xian, the हान राजवंश ceased to मौजूद.
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant growth of the money economy first स्थापित दौरान the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage issued by the central government mint in 119 BC remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 ad ).
To pay for its military campaigns and the settlement of newly conquered frontier territories, the government nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC.
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period, and the lost revenue was recouped through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs.
The सम्राट थी at the pinnacle of Han society.
he presided over the हान सरकारी लकिन साझा शक्ति साथ दोनो the धामों और नियुक्त मंत्रियों जो आए largely इससे the scholarly gentry क्लास.
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward, the Chinese court officially प्रायोजित Confucianism in education and court politics, synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu.
इस policy endured until the fall of the Qing Dynasty in 1911 AD.
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances, सहित papermaking, the nautical steering rudder, the use of negative numbers in mathematics, the raised-relief map, the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for astronomy, and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
Tourette syndrome ( also called Tourette 's syndrome, Tourette 's disorder, Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, GTS or, more commonly, simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic.
These tics characteristically wax and wane, can be suppressed temporarily, and are preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is defined as part of a spectrum of tic disorders, which includes transient and chronic tics.
Tourette 's was once considered a rare and bizarre syndrome, most often associated with the exclamation of obscene words or socially inappropriate and derogatory remarks ( coprolalia ), but this symptom is present in only a small minority of people with Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition, but it is not always correctly पहचाना because most cases are mild and the severity of tics decreases for most children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of transient and chronic tics in school-age children is higher, with the more common tics of eye blinking, coughing, throat clearing, sniffing, and facial movements.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, and tourette 's does not adversely affect intelligence or life expectancy.
Genetic and environmental factors play a role in the etiology of Tourette 's, but the exact causes are unknown.
In most cases, medication is अनावश्यक.
There is no effective treatment for every case of tics, but certain medications and therapies can help when their use is warranted.
Education is an important part of any treatment plan, and स्पष्टीकरण और reassurance alone are often sufficient treatment.
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics.
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the individual than the tics that are the hallmark of Tourette 's, hence it is important to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them.
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of उसके resident, Georges Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a French physician and neurologist, who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885.
सनबीम badge.
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John Marston Co. Ltd of Wolverhampton, England, in 1888.
The company first made bicycles, then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until about 1936, और लागू the marque to all three forms of transportation.
The company also manufactured aero engines in the First World War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War.
A Sunbeam was the first British car to win a Grand Prix race, and set a number of जमीन speed records.
The company went into receivership in 1935 and was purchased by the Rootes Group, which continued to use the सनबीम marque.
Fox News Channel ( FNC ), also known as Fox News, is a cable news channel owned by the फॉक्स entertainment Group, a subsidiary of News Corporation.
as of अप्रैल 2009, the चैनल थी उपलब्धियाँ to 102 लाख households in the संयुक्त राज्य और to दर्शक internationally, प्रसारण primarily इससे इसके नई यॉर्क studios.
The channel was निर्मित by Australian-American media mogul Rupert Murdoch, who hired former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO.
It launched on October 7, 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers.
It grew दौरान the late 1990s and 2000s to become the dominant cable news network in the United States.
Critics have stated that Fox News Channel promotes conservative राजनैतिक positions and biased reporting.
Commentators, news anchors, and reporters at Fox News Channel have responded that news reporting and political commentary operate independently of each other, and have अस्वीकृत कोई पूर्वाग्रह in न्यूज reporting.
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( दूर इससे the midline of the face ) from both the mandibular second premolars of the mouth but mesial ( toward the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( lower ) arch of the mouth, and generally opposes the ऊर्ध्वहनु ( upper ) first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion.
The function of this molar is similar to that of all molars in regard to grinding होने the प्रिंसिपल कार्रवाई during mastication, commonly known as chewing.
There are प्रायः five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the cheek ), two lingual ( side nearest the tongue ), and one distal.
There are great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the permanent mandibular molars, even though their function are similar.
The permanent mandibular molars are not considered to have any teeth that precede it.
Despite being named molars, the पतझड़ी molars are followed by permanent premolars.
In the universal system of notation, the deciduous mandibular first molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase.
The right deciduous mandibular first molar is known as `` S '', and the left one is known as `` L ''.
The international संकेतन has a different system of notation.
Thus, the right deciduous mandibular first molar is known as `` 84 '', and the left one is known as `` 74 ''.
In the universal system of notation, the permanent mandibular first molars are designated by a number.
The right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 30 '', and the left one is known as `` 19 ''.
The Palmer notation uses a number in conjunction with a symbol designating in which quadrant the दाँत is found.
For this tooth, the left and right first molars would have the same क्रमांक, `` 6 '', but the right one would have the symbol, `` ┐ '', over it, while the left one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The international notation has a different numbering system than the previous two, and the right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 46 '', और the बाएँ one is known as `` 36 ''.
Mandibular primary first molars प्रायः have four pulp horns.
The first molar is usually the first permanent tooth to erupt and has adult undertones.
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB, toward midline and cheek ), mesiolingual ( ML, toward midline and tongue ), distolingual ( DL, away from midline and towards tongue ), distobuccal ( DB, away from midline and toward cheek ), and distal ( D, away from midline ), listed in order of decreasing size.
Listed in order of decreasing height they are : ML, DL, DF, MF, and D. An eighth cusp was found in a primary second lower molar in an argentinean child.
Viewed from the शीर्ष of the दाँत ( occlusal दृश्य ), the mandibular पहला molar is pentagonal ( पाँच तरफा ) in आकार और tapers toward the lingual, साथ the पहलू होने the buccal सतह, the mesial सतह, the lingual सतह, distal सतह, और the distobuccal सतह.
the occlusal surface has four grooves.
The central groove is not straight but runs bas the center of the tooth mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial, central, central, and distal ).
The distobuccal groove runs from the distal pit in the central groove distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps.
The lingual groove runs from the more distal of the central pits in the central groove toward the lingual सतह between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps.
The buccal groove रनों इससे the more mesial of the central pits in the central groove toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit.
The portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory to account for the locations of the buccal and lingual grooves ( buccal groove being more mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ).
From the buccal ( buccal view ), two roots are present.
The distal रूट is generally straighter, हालांकि दोनो प्रायः have a पतला distal गोलाई.
the हाइट्स of रुपरेखा on the mesial और distal सम्पर्क the सटा दांत और हैं स्तिथ at the जंक्शन of the occlusal और मध्य तिहाई of the क्राउन.
The Florida Legislature is the two houses that act as the राज्य legislature of the U.S. state of Florida.
The Florida Constitution states that `` The legislative power of the state shall be vested in a legislature of the State of Florida, '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives.
The विधानमंडल is seated at the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee.
Stained glass depiction of Daniel interceding साथ Arioch, the king 's guard.
Arioch had been charged with killing all the wise men after they were not able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
Daniel 2 is the second chapter of the Book of Daniel in the Hebrew Bible.
The chapter 's source text is predominantly लिखा in Aramaic.
According to the text, Nebuchadnezzar is the किंग of बाबुल who is troubled by his dreams.
He demands an interpretation for his dreams or will have his mystic interpreters executed.
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret the king 's dreams and praises God with a छोटी psalm.
God देता Daniel a vision in the night to reveal the king 's dream.
Able to satisfy the किंग, डेनियल is promoted over the whole province of Babylon.
एक comcast बीच, the मुख्यालय of comcast in फिलाडेल्फिया, pa.
The old Comcast logo from 1969 to 1999, when it was replaced with the crescent logo.
The Comcast Corporation is an American provider of entertainment, information and संचार products and services.
It is the largest cable operator, one of the biggest mass media, home Internet service provider, and third largest home telephone service provider in the United States, providing cable television, broadband Internet, telephone service and in some areas home security ( including burglar alarms, surveillance cameras, fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia.
The कम्पनी is headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
In 2011, Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal from GE in January 2011, and began the process of purchasing the बाकी 49 % on फ़रवरी 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 billion.
It completed the खरीदें on March 19, 2013.
Comcast also has significant पकड़कर in अनेक cable networks ( including E !
Entertainment Television, Style Network, G4, the Golf Channel and NBC Sports Network ), distribution ( theplatform ), और सम्बन्धित व्यवसायों.
Comcast has been the subject of criticism for क्रियाएँ including its stance on net neutrality, as well as poor results on customer satisfaction surveys.
Porcupines हैं rodents साथ a coat of sharp spines, or quills, that defend and camouflage them from predators.
They are स्वदेशी to the Americas, southern Asia, and Africa.
Porcupines are the third largest of the rodents, behind the capybara and the beaver.
Most porcupines are about long, साथ an long tail.
Weighing, वे हैं rounded, large and slow.
porcupines आइये in विभिन्न शेड्स of भूरा, धूसर, और the असामान्य white.
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs and monotreme echidnas.
The common porcupine is a herbivore.
It eats leaves, herbs, twigs and green plants like skunk cabbage and clover and in the winter it may eat bark.
the उत्तर American porcupine often climbs trees to find food.
the African porcupine is not a climber and forages on the ground.
It is mostly nocturnal, but will sometimes forage for खाना in the दिन.
Porcupines have become a pest in कीनिया and are eaten as a delicacy.
The name porcupine comes from Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ).
A regional American name for the animal is quill pig.
First page of US patent 129,843 for Improvement in Lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2, 1844 – October 10, 1929 ) was a black Canadian-American inventor and engineer, who was notable for his 57 U.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of steam engines.
Born free in Canada, he returned as a five-year-old child with his family to the United States in 1847, where he lived for the rest of उसके जीवन और became a US citizen.
Honda FCX Clarity, a hydrogen fuel cell demonstration गाडी introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle that uses hydrogen as its onboard fuel for motive power.
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen fueled space rockets, as well as automobiles and अन्य परिवहन vehicles.
The power plants of such vehicles convert the chemical energy of hydrogen to mechanical energy either by burning hydrogen in an internal combustion engine, or by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run electric motors.
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling परिवहन is a कुंजी element of a proposed hydrogen economy.
Hydrogen fuel does not occur naturally on Earth and thus is not an energy source ; rather it is an उर्जा वाहक.
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels, but it can be produced using sources ( such as wind, solar, or nuclear ) that are intermittent, too diffuse or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants, using electrolysis of water, are exploring technologies to deliver costs कम पर्याप्त, और quantities great enough, to compete with traditional energy sources.
Many companies are working to develop technologies that might efficiently exploit the संभावित of हाइड्रोजन उर्जा लिये mobile uses.
The attraction of using hydrogen as an energy currency is that, if hydrogen is prepared without using fossil fuel inputs, vehicle नोदन होता not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions.
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost, low energy content per unit volume, high tankage weights, very high storage vessel pressures, the storage, transportation and filling of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in vehicles, the large investment in infrastructure that होता be जरूरी to ईंधन वाहनों, और the inefficiency of production processes.
Sacramento is the पूंजी नगर of the U.S. state of California and the seat of government of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento नदी और the American River in the northern portion of California 's expansive Central Valley.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area, San Francisco Bay Area, and the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter, Sr., his son John Sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the सुरक्षा of Sutter 's Fort, which was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento was a major distribution point, a commercial and agricultural center, and a terminus for wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the टेलीग्राफ, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, Sacramento, more commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State, is the largest local university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California State विश्वविद्यालयों system.
Drexel University Sacramento is located in शहर, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In addition, the University of California, Davis is located in nearby Davis, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned research hospital, is स्तिथ in the city of Sacramento.
The Apple Store is a chain of retail stores owned and संचालित by Apple Inc., dealing in computers and consumer electronics.
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers, software, iPods, iPads, iPhones, third-party accessories, and other consumer electronics such as Apple TV.
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre for presentations and workshops and a Studio for training with Apple products ; all stores offer a Genius Bar for technical support and repairs, as well as free वर्कशॉप उपलब्धियाँ to the public.
Under the नेतृत्व of रॉन जॉनसन, the former Senior Vice President of Retail Operations, the Apple Stores have, according to an article in the New York Times, been responsible for `` [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets ''.
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide, with global sales of billion in merchandise in 2011, and they lead the United States retail market in terms of sales per unit area.
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; फ़रवरी 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor, best known as the co-founder, chairman, and CEO of Apple Inc.
Through Apple, he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer revolution and for his influential career in the computer और उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स फ़ील्ड, transforming `` one industry after another, from computers and smartphones to music and movies... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a member of the board of directors of The Walt Disney Company in 2006, when Disney acquired Pixar.
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven graphical user interface, which led to the creation of the Apple Lisa और, one year later, the Macintosh.
He also played a role in introducing the LaserWriter, one of the first widely available laser printers, to the market.
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985, Jobs left Apple and founded NeXT, a computer platform development company specializing in the higher-education and business markets.
In 1986, he acquired the computer graphics division of Lucasfilm, which was spun off as Pixar.
He was credited in Toy Story ( 1995 ) as an executive producer.
He served as CEO and majority shareholder until Disney 's purchase of Pixar in 2006.
In 1996, after Apple had विफल to उद्धार इसके ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली, copland, gil amelio turned to अगला कंप्यूटर, और the nextstep मंच became the न्यास लिये the मैक os x.
Jobs returned to Apple as an advisor, and took control of the company as an अंतरिम CEO.
Jobs brought Apple from near bankruptcy to profitability by 1998.
As the new CEO of the company, Jobs oversaw the development of the iMac, iTunes, iPod, iPhone, and iPad, and on the services side, the company 's Apple Retail Stores, iTunes Store and the App Store.
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial returns, and propelled Apple to become the world 's most valuable publicly traded company in 2011.
The reinvigoration of the company is regarded by अनेक commentators as one of the greatest turnarounds in business history.
In 2003, Jobs was diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it was initially treated, he reported a hormone imbalance, underwent a liver transplant in 2009, and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
On चिकित्सा छोड़ लिये most of 2011, Jobs resigned in August that year, and was elected Chairman of the Board.
He died of respiratory arrest related to his metastatic tumor on October 5, 2011.
Jobs received a number of honors and public recognition for his influence in the technology and music industries.
He has been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or simply `` visionary '', and has been described as the `` Father of the Digital Revolution '', a `` master of innovation '', and a `` design perfectionist ''.
Entrance to section ( 52 ) of the Colosseum, with numerals still visible
Roman numerals, the numeric system in प्राचीन रोम, uses combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet to signify values.
The numbers 1 to 10 can be expressed in Roman numerals as follows:
और.
The Roman numeral प्रणाली is a cousin of Etruscan numerals.
Use of Roman numerals continued after the decline of the Roman Empire.
From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in most contexts by more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this process was gradual, and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day.
प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज आरेख
The effective nuclear charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net धनात्मक चार्ज अनुभवी by an electron in a multi-electron atom.
The term `` effective '' is प्रयुक्त क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव of negatively charged electrons prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
The effective nuclear charge experienced by the outer shell electron is also called the core charge.
It is possible to determine the strength of the nuclear charge by looking at the oxidation number of the atom.
This is a list of episodes from the Discovery Channel series, तूफ़ान Chasers.
A rural stretch of I-5, with two lanes in each दिशा अलग by a large grassy median, and with cross-traffic limited to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways ( commonly known as the Interstate Highway System, Interstate Freeway System, Interstate System, or simply the Interstate ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States.
The system is named for President Dwight D. Eisenhower, who championed its formation.
Construction was authorized by the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956, and the original portion was completed 35 years later.
The network has since been extended, and, it था a कुल लंबाई of, बनाना it the world 's second longest after China 's., about one-quarter of all vehicle miles driven in the country use the Interstate system.
The cost of construction has been estimated at $ 425 billion ( in 2006 dollars ), making it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids ``.
The system has contributed in shaping the United States into a world economic superpower and a highly industrialized nation.
.eu is the country code top-level domain ( ccTLD ) for the European Union ( EU ).
Launched on 7 दिसम्बर 2005, the domain is available for organisations in and residents of EU member states.
The TLD is administered by EURid, a consortium originally consisting of the national ccTLD registry operators of Belgium, Sweden, and Italy, joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic.
Trademark owners were able to submit पंजीकरण through a sunrise period, in an effort to prevent cybersquatting.
Full registration प्रारंभ on 7 April 2006.
Meister means master in German ( as in master craftsman, or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ).
The word is akin to maestro.
In sports, Meister is used for the current national, European or world champion ( Deutscher Meister, *europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many modern day German पुलिस forces use the title Meister.
During the Second World War, Meister was the highest enlisted rank of the ordnungspolizei.
Meister has been borrowed into English slang, where it is used in compound nouns.
a व्यक्ति referred to as “meister” is एक जो रै extensive सैद्धांतिक ज्ञान और व्यावहारिक कौशल in उसके व्यवसायिक, कारोबार, or कुछ अन्य दयालु of कार्य or activity.
For example, a “puzzle-meister” would be someone highly skilled at solving puzzles.
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example, “stubble-meister” for someone with a छोटी, neat दाढ़ी or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ).
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers, based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise, Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger.
Both the show and its related merchandise saw unbridled overnight success, becoming a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere months.
Under the original name, `` Mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the series ran from 1993 to 1995 and spawned the feature film Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie.
The second और तीसरा सीज़न of the दिखाएँ खींचा on फुटेज and elements from the Super Sentai series Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively, though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains.
Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) were retained from Dairanger for the second season, while only the mecha from kakuranger were featured in the third season.
However the Kakuranger costumes यहूद बाद प्रयुक्त for the title characters of the mini-series, Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers.
The series was produced by MMPR Productions, distributed by Saban entertainment, and aired on Fox Kids.
The show 's merchandise was produced and distributed by Bandai entertainment.
In 1996, the series was rebranded as the Power Rangers franchise ; renaming the series every year after, and using costumes, props, and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series, as well as changing the cast and storyline.
While an overarching storyline would continue until Power Rangers Lost Galaxy, subsequent series after MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense.
In 2010, a re-version of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, with a new logo, comic book-referenced graphics, and extra alternative खास प्रभाव, थी broadcast on ABC Kids, and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series.
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849 ) was an अमरीकी लेखक, poet, editor and literary critic, considered part of the American Romantic Movement.
Best known for his किस्से of रहस्य और the घोर, पो थी एक of the earliest अमरीकी practitioners of the छोटी स्टोरी और is generally माना the आविष्कारक of the जासूस fiction विधा.
He is further credited with contributing to the emerging genre of science fiction.
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a living through writing alone, resulting in a financially difficult life and career.
He was born as Edgar Poe in Boston, Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young when उसके माँ died shortly after his father abandoned the family.
पो थी लिया in by जॉन और frances allan, of रिचमंड, वर्जिनिया, लकिन वे never formally अपनाया उसे.
He attended the University of Virginia for one सेमेस्टर but left due to lack of money.
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an officer 's cadet at West Point, Poe parted ways with the Allans.
His publishing career began विनम्रतापूर्वक, with an anonymous collection of poems, Tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827 ), credited only to `` a Bostonian ''.
Poe switched his focus to prose and spent the next अनेक सालो working लिये literary journals and periodicals, becoming known for his own style of literary criticism.
His work forced him to move among several cities, including Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York City.
In Baltimore in 1835, he married Virginia Clemm, his 13-year-old cousin.
In January 1845 Poe published his poem, `` The रेवेन ``, to instant success.
His wife died of तपेदिक two years after its publication.
He began नियोजन to उपज उसके अपना जर्नल, the penn ( बाद renamed the स्टाइलस ), हालांकि he died पहले it could be उत्पादित.
On October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in Baltimore ; the cause of his death is अनजान और has been variously attributed to alcohol, brain congestion, cholera, drugs, heart disease, rabies, suicide, tuberculosis, and other agents.
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the world, as well as in specialized fields, such as cosmology and cryptography.
Poe and his work appear throughout popular culture in साहित्य, music, films, and television.
A क्रमांक of his homes are dedicated museums today.
The Mystery लेखक of America present an annual award known as the Edgar Award for distinguished work in the mystery genre.
Lions are obligate carnivores ; वे आवश्यकता up to seven kilograms ( 15 lbs ) of meat per day.
A major component of their diet is the flesh of large mammals, like this African buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin, caro अर्थ 'meat ' or 'flesh ' और vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
पशु that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are considered carnivores while those that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores.
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food, and apart from the more general definition, there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to एनिमल सामग्री कि होता distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore.
A carnivore that sits at the top of the foodchain is an apex परभक्षी.
Plants that capture and digest insects are called मांसाहारी plants.
Similarly, fungi that capture microscopic animals are often called मांसाहारी fungi.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football संघ ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions are Spain, जो won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight different national teams.
Brazil have won five times, and they are the only team to have played in every tournament.
The अन्य संसार कप विजेता are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Heroes is an American science fiction टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी created by Tim Kring that appeared on NBC for four seasons from September 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
The series tells the stories of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities, and how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives.
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of American comic books, using multi-episode story arcs that build upon a larger, more encompassing arc.
The series was produced by Tailwind Productions in association with Universal Media studios.
It was filmed primarily in Los Angeles, California.
Four complete seasons aired, ending on February 8, 2010.
The critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes and garnered an average of 14.3 million viewers in the United States, receiving the उच्चतम rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years.
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 million viewers in the U.S., and marked NBC 's sole series among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 ऋतु.
Heroes has earned a number of awards and nominations, including Primetime Emmy Awards, Golden Globes, People 's चुनाव Awards and British Academy Television Awards.
An online extension of the series, Heroes 360 Experience, later rebranded as Heroes Evolutions, was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology.
Other official Heroes media include magazines, action figures, tie-in and interactive websites, a mobile game, a novel, clothing and other merchandise.
In the fall of 2008, NBC Digital Entertainment released a श्रेणी of online content for the summer, including more original web content, wireless iTV interactivity, graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes.
एनबीसी घोषित नायक रद्दीकरण on may 14, 2010.
Afterward, the network considered making a television special event to conclude the series ; however, on September 9, 2010, NBC announced the decision to stop any further development of the Heroes franchise.
Tim Kring then suggested that the broad premise of Heroes storylines allowed for the franchise to return for fans, but he did not specify when or in what media format.
On April 17, 2013, TV Line reported that MSN was in talks to revive the श्रेणी with a new cast.
John Pierpont `` J. P. ''
Morgan ( April 17, 1837 – March 31, 1913 ) was an American financier, banker, philanthropist and art collector who dominated corporate finance and industrial consolidation दौरान उसके समय.
In 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison General Electric and thomson-houston Electric Company to form General Electric.
बाद financing the सृष्टि of the संघीय स्टील कम्पनी, he मिलाया in 1901 साथ the कार्नेगी स्टील कम्पनी और अनेक अन्य स्टील और आयरन व्यवसायों, सहित संचित स्टील और तार कम्पनी स्वामित्व by विलियम edenborn, to रूप the संयुक्त राज्य Steel Corporation.
Morgan died in रोम, Italy, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving his fortune and business to his son, John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan, Jr., and bequeathing his mansion and large book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York.
At the height of Morgan 's career दौरान the जल्दी 1900s, he और उसके साझेदार था वित्तीय निवेश in अनेक विशाल corporations और यहूद अभियुक्त by आलोचकों of controlling the स्वदेश 's ऊँची वित्त.
He निर्देशित the banking coalition that stopped the Panic of 1907.
He थी the अग्रणी financier of the Progressive Era, and his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped transform American business.
This is a list of episodes of the television series.
The episodes were directed by Shigeru Ueda and produced by the Yggdrasil Executive Committee जिससे included Xebec and Genco.
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around Rin Asōgi, an immortal private investigator, as she explores the secrets of आधुनिक और near-future संसार और the अलौकिक events that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself.
There are large time gaps in the internal chronology between the first five episodes, ranging from one to thirty years.
The छह episodes were broadcast monthly on AT-X channel in Japan, between February 3 and July 6, 2008.
Each episode is 45 मिनट्स long.
Two pieces of theme music are used for the episodes : the opening theme `` Alsatia '' and the ending theme `` Cause Disarray ''.
Both were composed and performed by the Japanese metal band Galneryus.
The श्रेणी was produced to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the AT-X network it originally aired on.
Aerial photo of fletc, जहाँ US digital forensics standards were developed in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic विज्ञान ) is a branch of forensic science encompassing the recovery and investigation of material found in digital devices, often in relation to computer crime.
The term digital forensics was originally used as a synonym for computer forensics लकिन रै विस्तारित to कवर investigation of all devices capable of storing digital data.
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s, the discipline evolved in a haphazard manner during the 1990s, and it was not until the जल्दी 21st century that national policies emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a variety of applications.
The most common is to support or refute a hypothesis before criminal or civil ( as part of the electronic discovery process ) courts.
Forensics may also feature in the private सेक्टर ; such as during internal corporate investigations or intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ).
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches, relating to the type of digital devices involved ; computer forensics, network forensics, forensic data analysis and mobile device forensics.
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure, forensic इमेजिंग ( अधिग्रहण ) और analysis of digital media and the production of a report into collected evidence.
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime, digital forensics can be used to attribute evidence to specific suspects, confirm alibis or statements, determine intent, identify sources ( for example, in copyright cases ), or authenticate documents.
investigations हैं much broader in पैमाना than अन्य क्षेत्रों of forensic विश्लेषण ( जहाँ the usual उद्देश्य is to provide जवाब to a श्रेणी of simpler सवाल ) प्रायः involving जटिल time-lines or hypotheses.
A comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by some color spaces.
A color model is an abstract गणितीय model describing the way colors can be represented as tuples of numbers, typically as three or four values or color components ( e.g. RGB and CMYK are color models ).
However, a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or less arbitrary color system with no कनेक्शन to any globally understood system of color interpretation.
Adding a certain mapping function between the color model and a certain reference color space results in a definite `` footprint '' within the reference color space.
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut, and, in combination with the color model, defines a new color space.
For example, Adobe RGB and sRGB are two different absolute रंग spaces, both based on the RGB model.
In the most generic sense of the परिभाषा above, color spaces can be defined without the use of a color model.
These spaces, such as Pantone, are in effect a given set of names or numbers which are defined by the existence of a corresponding set of physical color swatches.
This article focuses on the mathematical model concept.
Labor Day is an American federal holiday observed on the पहला सोमवार in सितंबर, कि मनाता the economic and social contributions of workers.
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an insurer, where the insurer promises to pay a designated beneficiary a sum of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person.
depending on the अनुबंध, other events such as terminal illness or critical illness may also trigger payment.
The policy holder typically pays a premium, either regularly or as a lump sum.
Other expenses ( such as funeral expenses ) are भी sometimes included in the benefits.
Life policies are legal contracts and the terms of the contract describe the limitations of the insured events.
Specific exclusions are often written into the contract to limit the liability of the insurer ; common examples are claims relating to suicide, धोखाधड़ी, युद्ध, riot और civil commotion.
Life-based contracts tend to पतन into two major categories:
Protection policies – designed to provide a benefit in the event of specified event, typically a lump sum payment.
A common form of this design is पद बीमे.
Investment नीतियों – जहाँ the प्रमुख उद्देश्य is to सुकर the विकास of पूंजी by नियमित or सिंगल प्रीमियम.
Common forms ( in the US ) are whole life, universal life and variable life policies.
{ { Infobox Holiday
Chinese नई Year
9 – 12 February ( वियतनाम )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2, 1962 in Yorba Linda, Orange County, California ) is an American actress, also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture.
Kapture began her career in films, most of जिससे यहूद नहीं huge commercial successes.
She went on to make a few टेलीविज़न अतिथि दिखावे ( macgyver, 1st & Ten, and as a contestant on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained international exposure with her first major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings.
Kapture 's role as Rita, the other half of the two `` Sams '' for almost 5 years, cemented उसके लोकप्रियता.
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant Chris Lorenzo, kapture gained global recognition along with her costar since the show was broadcast in several countries.
Sergeant Lance आखिरकार became लेफ्टिनेंट Lance by the time Kapture left the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During her time with the series, Kapture briefly sat in the director 's कुर्सी, लिये two episodes.
She was interviewed for the Silk Stalkings Season 1 dvd which was distributed by Anchor Bay Entertainment and released in September 2004.
After a छोटी अंतराल इससे the स्क्रीन following उसके निकास इससे रेशा stalkings, kapture लौटे in 1997 to the छोटी स्क्रीन और यूएसए संजाल.
She played lead roles in two USA तस्वीरें मूल telemovies, Perfect Crime ( based on a true story, also called Hide and Seek : The Joanne Jensen Story ), which also starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard.
She later starred in a few other independent film प्रोजेक्ट and theatre productions and had several television guest appearances.
Kapture also had a recurring role on Baywatch as Alexis Ryker.
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the Restless from 2002 through 2004, where she was credited as Mitzi Kapture Donahue, and starred in the made-for-TV movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26, 2006 on Lifetime Network.
Her latest is a supporting role in God 's Ears, released in 2007.
Kapture is the official celebrity प्रवक्ता for the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society.
The Xbox 360 is the second video game console developed by and produced for Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes with Sony 's PlayStation 3 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
As of September 30, 2012, 70 million Xbox 360 consoles have been sold worldwide.
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on MTV on May 12, 2005, with detailed launch and game information divulged later that month at the Electronic Entertainment Expo ( E3 ).
The console sold out completely upon release in all regions मगर in जापानी.
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service that allows players to compete online ; download arcade games, game demos, trailers, TV shows, music and movies ; and इसके खिड़कियाँ मीडिया बीच मल्टीमीडिया capabilities.
The Xbox Live also offers access to various ( often region-specific ) third-party media streaming applications.
At their E3 presentation on June 14, 2010, Microsoft announced a redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360 that would ship on the same day.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and features integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi, TOSLINK s/pdif ऑप्टिकल ऑडियो आउटपुट, five USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port.
Older मॉडल of the Xbox 360 have since been discontinued.
The first new console to be released features a 250 GB hard drive, while a later, less expensive SKU features 4 GB internal storage.
backpack may भी refer to a 2001 अनोखा by एमिली barr
a आधुनिक backpack
Swiss army backpack ca. 1960
एकीकृत तुमको frame.
A backpack ( also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, पैक ) is, in its simplest form, a cloth sack carried on one 's back and secured with two straps that go over the shoulders, but there can be exceptions.
lightweight प्रकार of backpacks हैं sometimes worn on तभी एक कंधे डोरी.
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying any sort of equipment, because of the limited capacity to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 lbs ), usually offload the largest part ( up to about 90 % ) of उनके वज़न onto padded hip belts, leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load.
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the कूल्हों हैं stronger than the shoulders, and also increases agility and balance, since the load rides nearer the wearer 's own center of mass.
in प्राचीन टाइम्स, the backpack थी प्रयुक्त as a अर्थात् to carry the शिकारी 's larger खेल और अन्य प्रकार of शिकार और as a रास्ता of easier हस्तांतरण लिये अन्य सामग्री.
In the मामले of larger hunts, the hunters होता dismember their prey and distribute the pieces of the animal around, each one packing the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which they placed on to their backs.
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and skin ( depending on what sorts of animals were in the area ) and sewn together by the intestines of said animals, which were woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like सामग्री.
Mexico ( ; ; ), officially the संयुक्त Mexican States ( ), is a federal constitutional republic in North America.
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala, Belize, and the Caribbean Sea ; and on the east by the Gulf of Mexico.
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ), Mexico is the fifth largest country in the Americas by total area and the 13th largest independent nation in the world.
With an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of over 113 million, it is the world 's eleventh most populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states and a संघीय ज़िला, the capital city.
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec, the Toltec, the Teotihuacan, the Zapotec, the Maya and the Aztec before first contact with Europeans.
In 1521, Spain conquered and colonized the territory from its base in México-Tenochtitlan, which was administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain.
This territory would eventually become Mexico following मान्यता of the colony 's independence in 1821.
The post-independence period was characterized by economic instability, the Mexican-American War and territorial cession to the United States, a civil war, two empires and a domestic dictatorship.
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910, which culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 संविधान and the emergence of the country 's current political system.
Elections held in July 2000 marked the first time that an opposition party won the प्रेसिडेंसी from the Institutional Revolutionary Party.
चूंकि 2006 the देश has been in the midst of a drug war which has caused 60,000 deaths.
मैक्सिको रै एक of the संसार 's largest economies, और is माना दोनो a क्षेत्रीय शक्ति और मध्य शक्ति.
In addition, Mexico was the first Latin American member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD ( since 1994 ), and considered an upper-middle income country by the World Bank.
Mexico is considered a newly industrialized country and an emerging power.
It has the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing power parity.
The economy is strongly linked to those of its North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) partners, विशेषकर the संयुक्त States of America.
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites with 31, and in 2007 was the tenth most visited country in the world with 21.4 लाख अंतरराष्ट्रीय arrivals per year.
Babe Ruth holds the एमएलबी करियर slugging percentage record (.690 ).
In baseball statistics, slugging percentage ( abbreviated SLG ) is a popular measure of the power of a hitter.
It is calculated as total bases विभाजित by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats लिये a given player, and 1B, 2B, 3B, and HR are the number of singles, doubles, triples, and home runs, respectively.
Walks are specifically excluded from this गणना.
For example, in 1920, Babe Ruth played his first season for the New York Yankees.
In 458 at bats, Ruth had 172 hits, comprising 73 singles, 36 युगल, 9 तिगुना, and 54 home runs, which brings the total base count to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
उसके कुल क्रमांक of bases ( 388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, his slugging percentage for the season.
The next year he slugged.846, and these records went unbroken until 2001, when Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, unmatched since.
is a role-playing वीडियो खेल विकसित और published by Square ( now Square Enix ) for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii, a freelance designer and creator of Enix 's popular Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama, a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball.
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the खेल, Masato Kato wrote most of the plot, while composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu.
The game 's story follows a group of adventurers who travel through time to prevent a global catastrophe.
Square re-released a ported version by Tose in Japan for Sony 's PlayStation in 1999, later repackaged with a Final Fantasy IV port as फाइनल Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market.
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released for the Nintendo DS on November 25, 2008, in North America and Japan, and went on sale in Australia on February 3, 2009 and in Europe on February 6, 2009.
The game was never released in PAL territories before the Nintendo DS version.
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon release and is considered today to be एक of the greatest video games of all time.
Nintendo Power magazine described aspects of chrono Trigger as revolutionary, including its multiple endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character development, unique battle system, and detailed graphics.
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling खेल of 1995, and the game 's SNES and PlayStation iterations have shipped 2.65 million copies as of March 2003.
The version for the Nintendo DS sold 790,000 नक़ल as of कूच 2009.
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phones, Virtual Console, the PlayStation Network ( only in the USA ), iOS डिवाइस, and Android devices.
बकरी cheese
Goat cheese, or chèvre ( from the French शब्द for goat ), is cheese made out of the milk of goats.
Hyperthermia is elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation that occurs when a body produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates.
Extreme temperature elevation then becomes a medical emergency requiring immediate treatment to prevent disability or death.
The most common causes शामिल ऊष्मा stroke and adverse reactions to drugs.
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive ऊष्मा, or संयोजन of heat and humidity, that overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of many drugs, विशेषकर those कि affect the central nervous system.
Malignant hyperthermia is a rare complication of some types of general anesthesia.
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be used in the treatment of some kinds of cancer and other conditions, most commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy.
Hyperthermia differs from fever in that the body 's temperature set point remains unchanged.
The opposite is hypothermia, which occurs when the तापमान drops below that required to maintain normal metabolism.
Belize, is a country located on the northeastern coast of सेंट्रल America.
It is the only country in the area where English is the official language, although Kriol and Spanish are more commonly spoken.
Belize is bordered on the उत्तर by Mexico, to the south and west by Guatemala and to the east by the Caribbean Sea.
Its mainland is about long and wide.
With of land and a population of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 जनसांख्यिकी ), बेलीज़ possesses the lowest population density in Central America.
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the second highest in the region and one of the highest in the western hemisphere.
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine species, and its diversity of ecosystems give it a key place within the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
Belize has a diverse society, comprising many cultures and languages.
It is the only nation in the region with a British colonial heritage, but as a part of the Western Caribbean Zone, it also shares a common heritage with the fellow anglophone caribbean देशों.
In general, Belize is considered to be a Central American and Caribbean nation with strong ties to दोनो the caribbean and Latin America.
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ), the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States ( CELAC ), and Central American Integration System ( SICA ).
Belize is known for its September Celebrations, and is the जन्मस्थान of chewing gum and Punta Rock.
The `` Betsy Ross '' ध्वज
A `` Betsy Ross '' flag flying outside San Francisco नगर Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the United राज्य, popularly attributed to बेट्सी रॉस, using the आम motifs of alternating red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
The flag was designed during the American Revolution and features 13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive feature of the Ross flag is the व्यवस्था of the stars in a circle.
Although the Betsy Ross story is accepted by most Americans, कुछ ध्वज इतिहासकारों और revisionists do not accept the Betsy Ross design as the first American flag.
According to the traditional account, the original flag was made in June 1776, when a small committee—including George Washington, Robert Morris and सापेक्ष जार्ज रॉस —visited बेट्सी और discussed the need लिये a new American flag.
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the flag, altering the committee 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars साथ five-pointed stars.
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable, the flag design is known to have been in use by 1777 ; Alfred B. Street described it at the surrender of General Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states.
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags known to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in cloth form, its likeness appears on older physical relics, namely, the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale.
They depict the circular star arrangement being flown from ship masts and many other स्थान, और यूँ provide the first known historical documentation of the flag 's appearance.
the मुहर of the u.S. विभाग of दिग्गजों अफेयर्स उपयोग the बेट्सी रॉस ध्वज to represent सेवा to सब दिग्गजों इससे the अमरीकी क्रान्ति to the उपस्थित day.
The बेट्सी रॉस डिज़ाइन of 13-star US flags has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in Washington Crossing the Delaware ) and films, such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna.
The flag continues to be one of the most लोकप्रिय symbols of the American Revolution.
A purr is a sound made by all species of felids और is a part of cat communication.
It varies between cats ( for example by loudness and tone ), and from species to species, but can be characterized as a tonal गुलजार.
The term `` purring '' रै महरूम प्रयुक्त liberally in साहित्य, और it रै महरूम claimed कि viverrids ( सीविट, नेवला, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
Other animals that have been said to purr are rabbits, squirrels, guinea pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, elephants, raccoons and gorillas while eating.
However, using a strict definition of purring that निरन्तर sound production must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and usually go on for minutes ), Peters ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive review of the scientific literature, reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets, Genetta tigrina, and most likely also Genetta genetta, had been documented to purr.
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania.
Together with the four प्रजाति of echidna, it is one of the five extant species of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), though a क्रमांक of related species have been found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at नेशनल events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the state of New South Wales.
Until the early 20th century, it was hunted for its fur, but it is अभी protected throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have had only सीमित कामयाबी and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
St. Elizabeth is a village in Miller County, Missouri, United States.
The population was 336 at the 2010 census.
Wilton is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Sacramento County, California, United States.
It is part of the Sacramento – Arden-Arcade – Roseville Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The population was 5,363 at the 2010 census, up from 4,551 at the 2000 census.
In human-computer interaction, cut and paste and copy and paste are related commands that offer a user-interface interaction technique for transferring text, data, files or objects from a source to a destination.
Most ubiquitously, users require the ability to cut and paste sections of मैदान text.
The cut command removes the selected data from its original position, while the copy command creates a duplicate ; in both cases the selected data is placed in a clipboard.
The data in the clipboard is बाद inserted in the position where the paste command is issued.
The command names are an interface रूपक आधारित on the physical procedure used in manuscript editing to create a page layout.
This interaction technique has close associations with related techniques in graphical user interfaces that use pointing devices such as a कंप्यूटर चूहा ( by drag and drop, for example ).
Economic order quantity is the order quantity that minimizes total inventory holding costs and ordering costs.
It is एक of the oldest classical production scheduling models.
The framework used to determine this order मात्रा is also known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula.
The model was developed by Ford W. हैरिस in 1913, but R. H. Wilson, a consultant who applied it extensively, is given credit for his in-depth analysis.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and रिकार्ड निर्माता.
Often referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर SRV, Vaughan is best known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble.
Together with drummer Chris layton and bassist Tommy Shannon, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold.
He was born and raised in Dallas, Texas, and for a short period of समय जिया in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped आउट of ऊँची स्कूल और स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical करियर, joining समूह ऐसे as krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, और the cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat revue, a band that eventually evolved into Double Trouble and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his आगामी स्टुडियो एल्बम let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record निर्माता जॉन Hammond Sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the group released the albums, Could n't Stand the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास hospital in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released and earned them a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary ब्लूज़ प्रदर्शन.
On अगस्त 27, 1990, Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a performance in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was derived from a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians सहित Albert King, Freddie King, Otis Rush, and Muddy Waters, and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the classic ब्लूज़ and pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the राज्य of Texas.
the लास वेगास Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a कार्बोनेटेड soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose विपणन tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, produce finished product in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise coca-cola to खुदरा stores and vending machines.
ऐसे bottlers शामिल coca-cola उद्यमों, जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate लिये सोडा fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand नाम.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including caffeine-free coca-cola, आहार कोक Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's सबसे valuable brand.
Barry Louis Larkin ( born April 28, 1964 ) is a retired प्रमुख लीग Baseball player.
Larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from 1986 to 2004 and was one of the pivotal खिलाड़ी on the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team.
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in January 2012 and was inducted on July 22.
Larkin is considered one of the top players of his era, winning nine Silver Slugger awards and three Gold Glove awards.
He was selected to the Major League All-Star Game twelve times, and was elected the 1995 National League Most Valuable Player.
Brasília ( ) is the federal capital of ब्राज़ील और the सीट of government of the Federal District.
Administratively, the city is located in the Federal District जिससे is in the Central-West Region.
Physically, it is located in the Brazilian Highlands.
It has a population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil.
However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth in population.
Brasília is the largest city in the world that did not exist at the शुरूआत of the 20th century.
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among Latin American cities and the तीसरा in Brazil.
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US dollars or €23,000 euros ), the city 's per capita income is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities.
As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the federal government of Brazil.
The नगर भी hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies.
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas, as well as building the city around large avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century.
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for निर्दिष्ट क्रियाएँ, such as the Hotel Sector, the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector.
Brasília hosts 124 विदेशी embassies.
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner, Oscar Niemeyer as the प्रिंसिपल वास्तु और रॉबर्टो Burle Marx as the landscape designer.
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's World Hertitage List due to its वास्तुकला.
On April 22, 1960, it formally became Brazil 's national capital.
viewed from above, the main portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly.
The city is commonly referred to as Capital Federal, or simply BSB.
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those not born in the city but जो migrated there after it was established ).
In local usage, the word `` Brasília '' usually refers only to the First Administrative Region ( RA I ) within the Federal District ( Distrito संघीय ), जहाँ the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण government buildings are located.
brasília रै a अद्वितीय औकात in Brazil, as it is an administrative division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil.
Nationally, the term is almost always used synonymously with the Federal District, which constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit, analogous to a state.
Several `` satellite cities '' exist which are also part of the Federal District.
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília, connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many international destinations.
It is the third most important airport in Brazil, in terms of passengers and aircraft movements.
Personifications of जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, रूस, austria-hungary, और the संयुक्त किंगडम attempting to keep the lid on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general European war.
They were successful in 1912 and 1913 लकिन किया not succeed in in 1914.
The causes of World War I, which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918, included many factors, such as the conflicts and hostility of the four decades leading up to the war.
Militarism, alliances, imperialism, and nationalism played major roles in the conflict as well.
The immediate origins of the war, however, lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals during the Crisis of 1914, casus belli for which was the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand ( the Archduke of Austria Hungary ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip, an irredentist Serb.
The crisis came after a long and difficult series of diplomatic clashes between the Great Powers ( Italy, France, Germany, the British Empire, the Austria-Hungarian Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high.
In turn these diplomatic clashes can be traced to changes in the balance of power in Europe since 1867.
The more immediate cause for the war was tensions over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed with Serbia and Russia for territory and influence in the region and they pulled the rest of the Great Powers into the conflict through their various alliances and treaties.
Although the chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war, the war 's origins go deeper, involving national politics, cultures, economics, and a complex web of alliances and counterbalances that had developed between the various European powers since 1870.
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe, unresolved territorial disputes, an intricate system of alliances, the perceived breakdown of the balance of power in Europe, convoluted and fragmented governance, the arms races of the previous decades, previous military planning, imperial and colonial rivalry लिये wealth, power and prestige, and economic and military rivalry in industry and trade – e.g., the Pig War between Austria and Serbia.
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the German belief that the United Kingdom would remain neutral ) and delays and misunderstandings in diplomatic communications.
The various categories of explanation for World War I correspond to different historians ' overall methods.
Most historians and popular commentators include causes from more than one category of explanation to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war.
The deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories that see it as the inevitable and predictable outcome of certain factors, and those कि describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake.
In attributing causes for the war, historians and academics had to deal with an unprecedented flood of memoirs and official documents, released as each country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war.
जल्दी रिलीज of सूचना by सरकारें, विशेषकर those released लिये उपयोग by the `` आयोग on the जिम्मेदारी of the लेखक of the युद्ध '' यहूद दिखाया to be अधूरी and biased.
In addition some documents, especially diplomatic cables between Russia and France, were found to have been doctored.
Even in later decades however, when much more information had been released, historians from the वही संस्कृति have महरूम दिखाया to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
Johnson 's new चार्ट of national emblems, published c. 1868.
The large flags shown in the corners are the 37-star flag of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ), the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom, the Russian Imperial Standard, and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle.
Various other ध्वज flown by ships are shown.
The ध्वज of क्यूबा is labelled `` क्यूबन ( so पुकारा ) ``.
the चाइनीज ड्रैगन on the ध्वज of चीन थी drawn mistakenly as a पश्चिमी ड्रैगन.
A national flag is a flag that symbolizes a country.
The flag is flown by the government, but usually can also be flown by citizens of the country.
Both public and private इमारतें such as schools and courthouses may fly the national flag.
In some countries, the national flags are only flown इससे non-military buildings on certain flag days.
There are three distinct types of national flag for उपयोग on जमीन, और तीन लिये उपयोग at sea, though many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign शक्तियां did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states continued to अस्वीकृत काल्स for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South कैरोलिना.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union नष्ट the confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American सिविल War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन और food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the मौत toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Norrie disease is a genetic disorder that primarily affects the eye and almost always लीड to दृष्टिहीनता.
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms, some patients suffer from a progressive hearing loss starting mostly in their 2nd decade of life, जबकि another portion may be mentally challenged.
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear श्वेत जब light is shone on them ), along with other developmental issues in the eye, such as shrinking of the globe and the wasting away of the iris.
Around 30–50 % of them will also have developmental delay/ mental retardation, psychotic-like features, incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities.
Most patients are born with normal hearing ; however, the onset of hearing loss is very common in early adolescence.
About 15 % of the patients are estimated to develop all the features of the disease.
The disease affects almost only male infants at birth or soon after birth, because the disease is inherited X-linked recessive.
तभी in very rare cases, females have been diagnosed with Norrie disease as well.
The exact incidence number is अनजान ; only a few hundred cases have been reported so far.
It is a very rare disorder that is not associated with any specific जातीय or racial groups.
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` प्रस्ताव '' और `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of ये तत्व may be किया in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
the उपाय लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of मुआवजे of धन or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन enforced through an आदेश.
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be natural persons or juristic persons.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking कि something will or will not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly इससे एक क्षेत्राधिकार to another, including differences in common law compared to civil law, the impact of received law, particularly from England in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side Web application framework designed for Web development to produce dynamic Web pages.
It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites, वेब applications and web services.
It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the.NET Framework, and is the successor to Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology.
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language runtime ( clr ), allowing programmers to write ASP.NET code using any supported.NET language.
The ASP.NET SOAP extension framework allows ASP.NET components to process SOAP messages.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, also known as lysergide ( INN ) और colloquially as एसिड, is a semisynthetic साइकेडेलिक ड्रग of the ergoline family, well known for its psychological effects which can include altered thinking processes, closed and open eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences, as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture.
It is used mainly as an entheogen, recreational ड्रग, और as an agent in psychedelic therapy.
LSD is non-addictive, is not known to cause brain damage, और रै अत्यधिक low toxicity relative to dose.
However, adverse मनोरोग reactions such as anxiety, paranoia, and delusions are possible.
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 from ergotamine, a chemical derived by Arthur Stoll from ergot, a grain fungus that typically grows on rye.
The short form `` LSD '' comes from its early code name LSD-25, which is an abbreviation for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
LSD is sensitive to oxygen, ultraviolet light, and chlorine, especially in solution, though its potency may last for years if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature.
In pure form it is a colorless, odorless, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically delivered orally, प्रायः on a substrate such as absorbent blotter paper, a sugar cube, or gelatin.
In its liquid form, it can also be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is very potent, with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) being the threshold dose.
New प्रयोग साथ LSD started in 2009 for the first time in 40 years.
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories, with trade-name Delysid, as a ड्रग with various psychiatric uses in 1947, LSD quickly became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) thought the drug might be applicable to mind control and chemical warfare ; the agency 's MKULTRA research program propagated the drug among young servicemen and students.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the Western world during the 1960s led to a political firestorm that resulted in its prohibition.
Currently, a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation, MAPS, Heffter Research Institute and the Albert Hofmann Foundation—exist to fund, encourage and coordinate research into the medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics.
The United States Navy 's Sea, Air, जमीन टीमों, commonly ज्ञात as the Navy SEALs, are the U.S. Navy 's principal special operations force and a part of the Naval Special Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command.
`` मुहर '' is सदा capitalized in सन्दर्भ to सदस्यों of the नवल खास warfare जातियाँ.
the एक्रोनिम is निकला इससे उनके क्षमता to operate at समुद्र, in the एयर, और on जमीन.
SEALs हैं male members of the United States Navy.
An exchange program with the Coast Guard, which graduated three Coast Guardsmen as seals, थी निलंबित in 2011.
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams.
Joint नेवी seals और सीआईए operations go back to the famed MACV-SOG during the Vietnam War.
This cooperation still exists today and is seen in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in the finding and killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual अंकित population figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the total number of जीना इंसानो on Earth.
As of today, it is estimated to number billion by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The uscb estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
कुछ विश्लेषकों have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार जनसांख्यिकी विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ, और उर्जा संसाधन.
Memphis is a city in the southwestern corner of the U.S. state of Tennessee, and the county seat of Shelby County.
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw Bluff, दक्षिण of the संगम of the Wolf and Mississippi rivers.
Memphis had a जनसांख्यिकी of 672,277 in 2011 बनाना it the largest नगर in the राज्य of टेनेसी, the largest नगर on the मिसिसिपी नदी, the तीसरा largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, और the 20th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The greater Memphis metropolitan area, including adjacent counties in Mississippi and Arkansas, had a 2010 population of 1,316,100.
This makes Memphis the second largest metropolitan area in Tennessee, surpassed only by महानगर Nashville, which has overtaken Memphis in recent years.
Memphis is the youngest of टेनेसी 's major cities.
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a Memphian, and the Memphis region is known, particularly to media outlets, as `` Memphis & The Mid-South ``.
The Cattenom Nuclear शक्ति संयंत्र in France.
France produces around तीन quarters of इसके विद्युत by नाभिकीय शक्ति.
the grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in Germany.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
Currently, 68 reactors are under construction in 15 देशों.
नाभिकीय power stations operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year, although according to the World Nuclear Association, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany और Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power.
As of June 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, liechtenstein, ध्वज, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Skeletal muscles होमो sapiens
This is a table of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on दोनो पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples range इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
the कार्रवाई refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical position.
In other positions, other actions may be performed.
A reenactment of a battle at Fort Foster, 1837 ( at hillsborough नदी राज्य पार्क )
The Seminole Wars, also known as the Florida Wars, were three conflicts in Florida between the Seminole — the collective name given to the amalgamation of various groups of native Americans and Black people who settled in Florida in the early 18th century — and the United States Army.
The First Seminole War was from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ), the Second Seminole War from 1835 to 1842, and the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858.
The first conflict साथ the seminoles arose आउट of तनाव relating to सामान्य एंड्रयू जैक्सन 's आक्रमण और विनाश of नीग्रो फोर्ट in फ्लोरिडा in 1816.
Jackson also attacked the स्पेनी at Pensacola.
Ultimately, the Spanish Crown ceded the उपनिवेश to संयुक्त राज्य rule.
Orono is a town in Penobscot County, Maine, United States.
It was first settled in 1774 and named in honor of मुख्य जोसेफ Orono of the Penobscot Nation.
It is home to The University of Maine.
The population was 10,362 at the 2010 census.
दृश्य of the pyramid
लक्सर लास वेगास is a hotel and casino on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada.
The 30-story hotel, owned and operated by MGM Resorts International, has a casino with over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games.
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it has a new, highly modernized, and contemporary design and contains a total of 4,400 rooms, including 442 suites, lining the interior walls of a pyramid style tower and within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions.
The hotel is named after the city of Luxor ( प्राचीन thebes ) in Egypt.
Luxor is the second largest hotel in Las Vegas ( the largest being the MGM Grand ) and the eighth largest in the world.
As of 2010, the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the Green Key Eco-Rating Program, which evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations.
A pilot experiment, also called a pilot study, is a small scale preliminary study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, time, cost, adverse events, and effect size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to प्रदर्शन of a full-scale शोध प्रोजेक्ट.
Pilot studies, therefore, may not be appropriate for case studies.
The Los Angeles Fire Department ( LAFD ) is the agency that provides fire protection and emergency medical services for the city of Los Angeles.
It may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles City Fire Department to distinguish it from the Los Angeles County Fire Department.
The acre is a unit of area used in the imperial और U.S. customary systems.
an एकड़ is परिचय 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – थोड़ा छोटी than an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable exceptions include the United States, Australia, Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to some extent, in कनाडा.
The international symbol of the एकड़ is ac, और is defined as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly प्रयुक्त acre today is the international acre.
In the United States both the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the slightly different US survey acre are in use.
The most common use of the acre is to माप tracts of land.
One international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार metres.
During the Middle Ages, an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a Native American people और इसके language:
pawnee people
Pawnee language
Pawnee is also the name of several places in the United States:
pawnee, Illinois
pawnee, Kansas
Pawnee नगर, Nebraska
Pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee, Texas
pawnee National Grassland, Colorado
pawnee Township ( disambiguation )
pawnee County ( disambiguation )
Pawnee may also refer to:
Piper PA-25 Pawnee, agricultural वायुयान
hiller VZ-1 Pawnee, experimental aircraft
Pawnee, Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional setting of the NBC television comedy Parks and Recreation.
broca 's और Wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the way इंसान beings use words to communicate ideas and feelings, and how such communications are processed and understood.
Thus it is how the brain creates and understands language.
Most recent theories consider that this process is carried out entirely by and inside the brain.
This is considered one of the most characteristic abilities of the human प्रजाति - शायद the सबसे characteristic.
However very little is known about it and there is विशाल पैमाना लिये शोध on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury, whether external ( wounds, bullets ) or internal ( strokes, tumors, degenerative रोगों ).
Studies have shown that most of the language processing functions are carried out in the cerebral cortex.
The essential function of the cortical language areas is सांकेतिक representation.
Even हालांकि language exists in different forms, all of them are based on symbolic representation.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the world, साथ a शीर्ष गति of.
the original version has a top speed of.
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear.
The मानक veyron जीती शीर्ष गियर्स बेहतरीन car चलित सब साल पुरस्कार in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on औसत a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special variants have been produced.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website.
DVD is an ऑप्टिकल डिस्क भंडार format, invented and developed by Philips, Sony, Toshiba, and Panasonic in 1995.
DVDs offer higher storage क्षमता than compact discs while having the same dimensions.
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding machines that physically stamp data onto the DVD.
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM, because data can only be read and not लिखा nor erased.
Blank recordable DVD discs ( dvd-r और DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM. Rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW, DVD+RW, and DVD-RAM ) can be recorded and erased multiple times.
DVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and in DVD-Audio consumer digital audio format, as well as for authoring avchd discs.
DVDs containing other types of information may be referred to as DVD data discs.
What Chilli Wants is an American reality series on VH1 starring Chilli, one-third of the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC.
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the help of Tionna T. Smalls, an author and relationship coach.
The series premiered on April 11, 2010, and has since been renewed for a second season.
The second season premiered on Sunday, January 2, 2011.
पीटर जीन hernandez ( born अक्तूबर 8, 1985 ), ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम ब्रूनो मंगल, is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter और रिकार्ड निर्माता.
Raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a family of musicians, Mars began making music at a young age and performed in विभिन्न musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
He graduated from high school and then moved to Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, to pursue a musical career.
Mars produced गीतों for other artists, joining production team The Smeezingtons.
Mars had an unsuccessful stint with Motown Records, but then signed with Atlantic in 2009.
He became recognized as a solo artist after lending his vocals and co-writing the hooks for the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B, and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy.
He also co-wrote the hits `` Right Round `` by Flo rida featuring Ke $ ha, and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan.
In October 2010, he released his debut album, Doo-Wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the worldwide number-one singles `` Just the Way You हैं `` और `` ग्रेनेड ``, the album peaked at number three on the Billboard 200.
Mars was मनोनीत लिये सात Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards, winning Best Male Pop Vocal Performance for `` Just the Way You Are ''.
उसके दूसरी studio album, Unorthodox Jukebox, was released on December 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide variety of styles and influences, and contains elements of many musical genres.
He has worked with an assortment of artists from various genres.
As a child, he was highly influenced by कलाकारों such as Little Richard, Elvis Presley and Michael Jackson and would often impersonate these artists from a young age.
Mars also incorporates reggae - and Motown -inspired ध्वनि into उसके कार्य.
विश्वव्यापी, मंगल became the best-selling डिजिटल कलाकार in 2011.
He had three singles in the top ten, including first place with `` Just the Way You Are '', which sold 12.5 million copies.
मंगल won Best International Male Solo Artist at the 2012 BRIT Awards.
Bruno Mars has sold 6 million albums and 40 million singles worldwide as a singer.
Althought as a song-writer, producer and singer his कुल single download sales surpass 100 million worldwide.
Bust of Zeus, Otricoli ( Sala Rotonda, museo pio-clementino, Vatican ).
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks, concerning their gods and heroes, the nature of the world, and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices.
It was a part of the religion in ancient Greece and is part of religion in modern यूनानियों and around the world, known as Hellenismos.
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of Ancient Greece and its civilization, and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself.
यूनानी mythology is explicitly समाविष्ट in a विशाल संग्रहण of कहानियां, और implicitly in यूनानी representational कला, ऐसे as vase-paintings और votive gifts.
यूनानी मिथक attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods, goddesses, heroes, heroines, and mythological creatures.
These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek literature.
The oldest known Greek literary sources, Homer 's epic poems Iliad and Odyssey, focus on events surrounding the trojan War.
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod, the Theogony and the Works and Days, contain खाते of the उत्पत्ति of the world, the succession of divine rulers, the succession of human ages, the origin of human woes, and the origin of sacrificial practices.
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns, in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle, in lyric poems, in the works of the tragedians of the fifth century BC, in writings of scholars and poets of the Hellenistic Age, and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias.
Archaeological findings provide a principal source of detail about Greek mythology, with gods and heroes featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts.
Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles.
In the succeeding Archaic, शास्त्रीय, and Hellenistic periods, Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear, supplementing the existing literary evidence.
Greek mythology has था an extensive influence on the culture, arts, and literature of Western civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language.
Poets and artists from ancient times to the present have derived प्रेरणा इससे यूनानी mythology and have discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes.
Mouth & macneal in 1971
Mouth & MacNeal was a pop duo from the Netherlands.
They are best known for their million selling recording of `` How Do You Do ``.
The Boise राज्य Broncos football program represents Boise State University in college football and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference.
They are currently led by head coach Chris Petersen and play their घर खेल at bronco स्टेडियम.
The franc ( चिह्न : fr. or sfr. ; जर्मनी : franken, फ्रेंच और romansh : फ़्रैंक, इतालवी : फ्रेंको ; कोड : chf ) is the करेंसी और विधिक टेंडर of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein ; it is भी विधिक टेंडर in the इतालवी exclave campione d'italia.
Although not formally legal tender in the German exclave Büsingen ( the एकमात्र विधिक करेंसी is the euro ), it is in wide daily use there.
The Swiss National Bank issues banknotes and the federal mint Swissmint issues coins.
The Swiss franc is the only संस्करण of the franc still issued in Europe.
The smaller denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a Rappen ( Rp. ) in German, centime ( c. ) in French, centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian, and rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
The ISO code of the currency used by banks and financial institutions is CHF, although `` Fr. '' is used by most businesses and advertisers ; some use SFr. ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica.
Given the different languages used in Switzerland, Latin is used for language-neutral inscriptions on the coins.
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin, ( 16 April 188925 December 1977 ) was a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the silent era.
Chaplin became a worldwide icon through his screen persona `` the Tramp `` और is माना one of the most important figures of the film industry.
His career spanned more than 75 years, from a child in the Victorian era to close to his death at the age of 88, and encompassed both adulation and controversy.
Raised in London, Chaplin 's childhood was defined by poverty and hardship.
He was भेजा to a workhouse twice before the age of nine ; his father was absent, and his mother was committed to a mental asylum.
Chaplin began performing from a young age, touring music halls and later working as a stage actor and comedian.
At 19 he थी signed to the prestigious Fred Karno company, which took him to America.
Chaplin was scouted by the film industry, and made his first appearances in 1914 with Keystone Studios.
He soon developed the Tramp persona and formed a large fan base.
चैपलिन निर्देशित उसके films इससे an जल्दी स्टेज, और जारी to hone उसके शिल्प as he स्थानांतरित to the essanay, परस्पर, और पहला नेशनल corporations.
By 1918, he was one of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध men in the world.
In 1919, Chaplin co-founded the distribution company United Artists, giving him complete control over his films.
His first feature-length picture was the बच्चा ( 1921 ), followed by A Woman of Paris ( 1923 ), The Gold Rush ( 1925 ), and The Circus ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s, instead producing City Lights ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly राजनैतिक और उसके next film, The Great Dictator ( 1940 ), satirised Adolf Hitler.
The 1940s was a decade marked with controversy for चैपलिन, and his popularity declined rapidly.
He was accused of communist sympathies, while his involvement in a paternity suit and marriages to much younger women were considered scandalous.
An FBI investigation was opened on Chaplin, and he was eventually forced to leave the United States and settle in स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
He abandoned the Tramp for his later films, which include Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ), Limelight ( 1952 ), a किंग in नई यॉर्क ( 1957 ), and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ).
Chaplin wrote, directed, produced, edited, scored, and starred in सबसे of his films.
He was a perfectionist, and his financial independence meant he often spent years on the development and production of a picture.
His films are characterised by slapstick combined with pathos, and often feature the Tramp struggling against adversity.
Many contain social and राजनैतिक themes, as well as autobiographical elements.
In 1972, as part of a renewed appreciation for his work, Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable effect he has had in making motion pictures the art form of this century ''.
He continues to be held in high regard, with The Gold Rush, City Lights, Modern Times, and The ग्रेट तानाशाह प्रायः ranked among the greatest films of all time.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ), commonly shortened to नियोजित parenthood, is the U.S. affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing reproductive health and maternal and child health सेवाएं.
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund, Inc. ( PPAF ) is a related organization which lobbies for pro-choice legislation, comprehensive sex education, and access to affordable health care in the United States.
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive health services, including cancer screening, HIV screening and counseling, contraception, and abortion.
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's total services and abortions खाता लिये 3 % ; ppfa conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each year, among 3 million people served.
The organization has its roots in Brooklyn, नई यॉर्क, जहाँ मार्गरेट Sanger opened the country 's first birth-control clinic.
Sanger founded the American Birth Control League in 1921, which in 1942 became part of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.
Since then, Planned Parenthood has grown to have over 820 clinic locations in the U.S., with a total budget of US $ 1 billion.
PPFA provides an array of services to over three million people in the United States, और supports services for over one million clients outside the United States.
Mens rea is Latin for `` guilty mind ''.
In criminal law, it is viewed as one of the जरुरी elements of some crimes.
The standard common law test of criminal liability is usually expressed in the Latin phrase, actus non facit reum nisi mens sit rea, which means `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions with due process, there must be an actus reus, or `` guilty act, '' accompanied by some level of mens rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is charged ( see the तकनीकी requirement of concurrence ).
As a general rule, criminal liability does not attach to a person who acted with the absence of mental fault.
The एक्सेप्शन is strict liability crimes.
In civil law, it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective mental element to establish liability for breach of contract or अपकृत्य, लिये example.
However, if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached, such intent may increase the scope of liability as well as the measure of damages payable to the plaintiff.
Therefore, mens rea refers to the दिमागी element of the offence that accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the terms mens rea and actus reus have been replaced by alternative terminology.
In Australia, for example, the elements of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental elements '' ( mens rea ) and `` physical elements '' or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ).
This terminology was adopted to replace the obscurity of the Latin terms with simple and accurate phrasing.
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885 ) was the 18th President of the United States ( 1869–1877 ) following his highly successful role as a war सामान्य in the दूसरी हाफ of the Civil War.
अंतर्गत ग्रान्ट, the संघ फौज पराजित the confederate सैन्य ; having effectively ended the युद्ध और secession साथ the आत्मसमर्पण of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज at appomattox.
as अध्यक्ष he led the कट्टरपंथी republicans in उनके प्रयत्न to eliminate सब vestiges of confederate राष्ट्रवाद और गुलामी.
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having desired to protect African American citizenship, President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871.
Grant was the first President to स्थापित सिविल सेवा reform having created a two-year federally funded Civil Service Commission in 1871.
In terms of foreign नीति, ग्रान्ट नाज़िल an `` अनपेक्षित capacity for deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest.
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense of corrupt appointees, and by America 's first industrial age economic depression ( called the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term.
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 with reformers denouncing him, Grant was easily reelected.
By 1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control of every state in the South and as he left the White House in March 1877 his policies were being undone.
A career soldier, he ग्रैजुएट इससे the United States Military Academy at West Point and served in the Mexican–American War.
When the Civil War began in 1861, ग्रान्ट trained Union volunteer regiments in Illinois.
In 1862, as a general he fought a series of battles and was promoted to major general after forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a large Confederate army and gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee.
he तब led संघ शक्तियां to विजय बाद आरंभिक setbacks in the बैटल of shiloh, कमाई a प्रतिष्ठा as an आक्रामक commander.
In July 1863, after a long, complex campaign, ग्रान्ट defeated five uncoordinated Confederate armies ( capturing one of them ) and seized Vicksburg.
This famous victory gave the Union full control of the Mississippi River, split off the western Confederacy, and opened the way for more Union triumphs.
बाद another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863, President Abraham Lincoln made him lieutenant general and commander of all of the Union Armies.
As commanding general of the army, Grant confronted Robert E. Lee in a series of very bloody battles in 1864 known as the overland Campaign that ended with the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg, outside the Confederate capital of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns launched by William Tecumseh Sherman, Philip Sheridan, and George Thomas.
आखिरकार breaking through Lee 's trenches, the Union Army captured Richmond in April 1865.
Lee surrendered his depleted forces to Grant at Appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-Confederate historians attacked Grant as a ruthless butcher who won by brute force, most historians have hailed his military genius.
Grant 's two लगातार शर्तें as President stabilized the nation after the American Civil War and during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed.
As president, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws and fighting Ku Klux Klan violence.
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth Amendment ; giving संवैधानिक protection for African-American voting rights.
He used the army to build the Republican Party in the दक्षिण, आधारित on black voters, Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` ) and native white supporters ( `` Scalawags. '' )
As a result, African Americans were represented in the U.S. Congress लिये the पहला समय in American history in 1870.
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress, the creation of the Board of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations, and his enlistment of Quaker Protestants who controlled mid western Indian agencies, that effectively curbed Congressional patronage.
Grant remained determined in keeping Indians from being exterminated from white settler अतिक्रमण or by the U.S. military.
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time high for his previous veto of the Inflation Bill, the passage of the Resumption of Specie Act, and Secretary Bristow 's successful raids that shut down the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, implemented International Arbitration, settled the Alabama Claims with Britain and avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair.
a ज्यूकबॉक्स is a partially स्वचालित music-playing यंत्र, प्रायः a coin-operated यंत्र, कि होगा खेल a संरक्षक 's चयन इससे self-contained मीडिया.
The classic jukebox has buttons with letters and numbers on them that, when entered in combination, हैं प्रयुक्त to खेल a विशिष्ट selection.
A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example urine, hair, blood, sweat, or oral fluid / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites.
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport or for drugs prohibited by laws, such as cannabis, cocaine and heroin.
A `` 10-panel urine screen '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( including methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( THC )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
opiates ( Codeine, Morphine, Heroin, Oxycodone, Hydrocodone, etc. )
Phencyclidine ( PCP )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket, used for the अमरीकी manned lunar landing missions
Space exploration is the discovery और खोजी of outer space by means of space technology.
शारीरिक खोजी of space is conducted both by human spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft.
While the observation of objects in space, known as astronomy, predates reliable recorded history, it was the development of large and relatively efficient rockets during the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality.
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing scientific research, uniting different nations, ensuring the future survival of humanity and developing military and strategic लाभ against other countries.
Various criticisms of space exploration are sometimes made.
Space exploration has often been used as a proxy competition for geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold War.
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the United States, the launch of the first man-made object to orbit the Earth, the USSR 's Sputnik 1, on 4 October 1957, and the first Moon landing by the American Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period.
The Soviet space program achieved many of the first milestones, including the first living being in orbit in 1957, the first human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1 ) in 1961, the first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the पहला स्वचालित लैंडिंग on another celestial body in 1966, and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the first 20 years of exploration, focus shifted from one-off flights to renewable hardware, such as the Space Shuttle program, and from competition to cooperation as with the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन ( ISS ).
With the substantial completion of the ISS following STS-133 in March 2011, plans for space exploration by the USA remain in flux.
Constellation, a Bush Administration program for a return to the Moon by 2020 थी judged inadequately funded and unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009.
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the development of the capability for crewed missions beyond low earth orbit ( LEO ), envisioning extending the operation of the ISS beyond 2020, transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from NASA to the private sector, and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO, such as Earth/Moon L1, the Moon, Earth/Sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and Phobos or Mars orbit.
As of March 2011, the us सीनेट और हाउस of Representatives are still working towards a compromise NASA funding bill, which will probably terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ).
In the 2000s, the People 's Republic of China initiated a successful manned spaceflight program, while the European Union, Japan, and India have also planned future manned space missions.
China, Russia, Japan, and India have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st सदी, जबकि the यूरोपीय Union has advocated manned missions to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century.
From the 1990s onwards, private interests began promoting space tourism and then private space exploration of the चंद्रमा ( देखिए google चंद्र X Prize ).
John Calvin कूलिज, Jr. ( July 4, 1872January 5, 1933 ) was the 30th President of the United States ( 1923–1929 ).
A रिपब्लिकन वकील इससे Vermont, Coolidge worked his way up the ladder of Massachusetts state politics, eventually becoming governor of that state.
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him into the national spotlight and gave him a reputation as a man of decisive action.
Soon after, he was elected as the 29th Vice अध्यक्ष in 1920 और succeeded to the Presidency upon the sudden death of Warren G. Harding in 1923.
Elected in his own right in 1924, he gained a reputation as a small-government conservative, and also as a man who said very little.
Coolidge restored public confidence in the श्वेत हाउस बाद the scandals of his predecessor 's administration, and left office with considerable popularity.
As a कूलिज biographer put it, `` he समाविष्ट the स्पिरिट और उम्मीदें of the मध्य क्लास, could interpret उनके longings और एक्स्प्रेस उनके राय.
That he did represent the प्रतिभाशाली of the average is the most convincing proof of his strength. ''
Some later criticized कूलिज as भाग of a सामान्य आलोचना of laissez-faire सरकारी.
His reputation underwent a renaissance during the Ronald Reagan Administration, but the ultimate assessment of his presidency is still divided between those who approve of his reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the federal सरकारी should be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy.
Espresso is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a small amount of nearly boiling water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans.
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods, a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids, and crema ( meaning cream, but being a reference to the foam with a creamy texture that forms as a result of the pressure ).
As a result of the pressurized brewing process the flavors and chemicals in a typical cup of espresso are बहुत concentrated.
एस्प्रेसो is the base for other drinks, such as a latte, cappuccino, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages, but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, little less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee.
Brian Keith Kelly ( born October 25, 1961 ) is an American football कोच और पूर्व player.
He is currently the head football coach for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, a position he has held since December 2009.
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand Valley State University ( 1991–2003 ), Central Michigan University ( 2004–2006 ), and विश्वविद्यालयों of सिनसिनाटी ( 2006–2009 ).
A contract is an अनुबंध having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of कुछ or all of these elements may be done in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies पुरस्कार the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be natural persons or juristic व्यक्तियों.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something होगा or होगा not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an अनुबंध बगैर विचार.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, including differences in common law compared to civil law, the impact of received law, particularly from इंग्लैण्ड in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian अनुबंध विधि लिये उदाहरण, वहीँ हैं 40 प्रासंगिक acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of goods.
Sidney Patrick Crosby, ONS ( born August 7, 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins out of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League ( QMJHL ).
During his two-year major junior career with the Rimouski Océanic, he earned back-to-back CHL Player of the साल पुरस्कार और led उसके क्लबों to the 2005 मेमोरियल Cup final.
Nicknamed `` The Next One ``, he was one of the most highly regarded draft picks in hockey history, leading many to refer to the 2005 Draft Lottery as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes ''.
In his पहला एनएचएल ऋतु, crosby समाप्त छठे in लीग स्कोरिंग साथ 102 अंक ( 39 लक्ष्य, 63 assists ) और थी a runner-up लिये the calder मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी ( जीती by सिकंदर ovechkin ).
By उसके दूसरी ऋतु, he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to capture the Art Ross Trophy, becoming the youngest player and the only teenager to win a scoring title in any major North American sports league.
That same ऋतु, crosby भी जीती the हार्ट मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी as the पेशेवर हॉकी लेखक संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी और the लेस्टर B. पियर्सन पुरस्कार as the एनएचएल खिलाड़ी संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी, बनने the सातवाँ खिलाड़ी in एनएचएल इतिहास to earn सब तीन पुरस्कार in एक साल.
Crosby प्रारंभ the 2007–08 season with the team 's captaincy and subsequently led them to the 2008 Stanley Cup Finals, where they were defeated by the Detroit Red Wings in six games.
The Penguins returned to the Finals against Detroit the following year and won in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest captain in NHL history to win the Stanley Cup.
In the 2009–10 season, Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket Richard Trophy as the league-leader ; with 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, Crosby received the Mark Messier Leadership Award.
In 2010–11, Crosby sustained a concussion as a result of hits to the head in back-to-back games.
The चोट left him sidelined for ten and a half months.
However, after playing eight games in the 2011–12 ऋतु, Crosby 's concussion-like symptoms returned in December 2011, and he did not return until mid-March 2012.
internationally, crosby रै represented Canada in numerous tournaments for the country 's junior and men 's teams.
After competing in the 2003 U-18 Junior World Cup, he represented Canada in back-to-back IIHF World U20 Championships, winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005.
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship, he led the tournament in scoring, while also earning Top Forward and all-star टोली honours.
Four सालो बाद, Crosby was named to Team Canada for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver.
Playing the United States in the gold medal game, he scored the game-winning goal in overtime.
A United States cent, also known as a पैनी.
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer version `` put my two cents in '' is an संयुक्त States ( US ) idiomatic expression, taken from the original English idiom expression : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
It is used to preface the अंतरिम stating of one’s opinion.
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents, a very small amount – the user of the phrase hopes to lessen the impact of a possibly statement, showing politeness और humility.
However, it is also sometimes used with irony when expressing a strongly लगा opinion.
The phrase is also used out of habit to preface uncontentious opinions.
For example:
The Chinese Civil War was a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the Republic of China led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of China ( cpc ).
The war began in April 1927, amidst the Northern expedition, और essentially ended when major active battles ceased in 1950.
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states, the Republic of China ( ROC ) in Taiwan and the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) in mainland China, both claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
The war represented an ideological split ( Left vs. Right ) between the Communist CPC, and the kmt 's ब्रांड of Nationalism.
The civil war continued intermittently until late 1937, when the two parties formed a Second United Front to counter a Japanese invasion.
China 's full-scale civil war resumed in 1946, a year after the end of hostilities with Japan.
After four more years, 1950 saw the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly founded People 's Republic of China controlling mainland China ( including Hainan ), and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu and several outlying islands.
The Kuomintang defeat is attributed to several factors : Corruption - Chiang wrote in his diary on June 1948 that the KMT had failed, not because of external enemies but because of rot from within.
Strong initial support from the u.S. diminished, and then, stopped.
( partly क्युकी of kmt भ्रष्टाचार और anti-democratic शासन, और partly क्युकी of the अनिश्चित u.S. विदेशी नीति towards साम्यवादी between 1945 और 1950 ) ; कम्युनिस्ट जमीन सुधार नीति promised ग़रीब peasants farmland इससे their landlords.
This ensured PLA popular support.
After the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II, Soviet forces turned over their captured Japanese weapons to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria.
To this day, no armistice or peace treaty has ever been signed, and it is debated as to the whether the सिविल War has legally ended.
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and political and economic pressure, particularly over Taiwan 's political status, with both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy. ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the ROC with a military invasion if the ROC officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining अंतरराष्ट्रीय मान्यता as the Republic of Taiwan.
The ROC mutually claims mainland China, and they both continue the लड़ो over diplomatic recognition.
Today, the war as such occurs on the political and economic fronts in the form of cross-Strait relations ; however, the two separate de facto states have close economic ties.
The One Hundred Twelfth United States Congress was the meeting of the legislative branch of the United States federal government, from January 3, 2011 until January 3, 2013.
It convened in Washington, D.C. on January 3, 2011, and ended on January 3, 2013, 17 days before the end of the presidential term to which Barack Obama was elected in 2008.
Senators elected to regular terms in 2006 completed those terms in this Congress.
This Congress included the last House of Representatives elected from congressional districts that were apportioned based on the 2000 census.
In the 2010 मध्यावधि चुनावों, the Republican Party won the majority in the House of Representatives.
While the Democrats रखा their Senate majority, it was reduced from the previous Congress.
This was the first Congress in which the House and Senate were controlled by different parties since the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ), and the first Congress to begin कि रास्ता since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ).
In this Congress, the House of प्रतिनिधि had the largest number of Republican members, 242, since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family served, as well as the सबसे नीतियां polarized Congress since Reconstruction, with record low approval ratings.
Wealth in the United States is commonly measured in terms of net worth, which is the sum of all assets, including home equity, minus all liabilities.
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit संगठन 1945–2009, unadjusted for inflation or population change.
For example, a household in कब्ज़ा of an $ 800,000 house, $ 5,000 in mutual funds, $ 30,000 in cars, $ 20,000 worth of stock in their own company, and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000.
Assuming that this household would have a $ 250,000 mortgage, $ 40,000 in car loans, and $ 10,000 in credit card debt, its debts would total $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this household 's assets ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), this household would have a net worth of $ 600,000.
Net worth can vary with fluctuations in value of the underlying assets.
The माल —more specifically, the median net worth—of households in the United States is varied with relation to race, education, geographic location and gender.
As one would expect, households with greater income feature the highest net worths, हालांकि high income can not be taken as an always accurate indicator of net worth.
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the rise, with baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers.
In addition, wealth is unevenly distributed, with the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the माल in the United States, which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009.
Including human capital such as skills, the United Nations estimated the total wealth of the United States in 2008 to be $ 118 खरब.
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain relief ; for those procedures, which have begun to take the name `` rhizotomy '' in certain instances, see facet rhizotomy and similar.
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal cord, most often to relieve the लक्षण of neuromuscular conditions such as spastic diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy.
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy रै महरूम the प्रमुख उपयोग of rhizotomy for neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP since the 1980s ; in this surgery, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed.
The sensory nerve roots, where spasticity is located, are first separated from the motor ones, and the तंत्रिका fibres to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity are then selectively lesioned with tiny electrical pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the damaged nerves that don’t receive gamma amino butyric acid, which is the core problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy.
These over-firing, non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate असामान्य विद्युत कार्यकलाप during the EMG testing phase in SDR and are thus considered to be the source of the patient 's hypertonia ; they are eliminated with the electrical pulses once identified, while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched.
इस अर्थात् कि the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and that this is done without affecting nervous system sensitivity or function in other areas, because the only nerves destroyed are the over-firing ones responsible for the muscle tightness.
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly becoming interchangeable in the treatment of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease.
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is instead done on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing तंत्रिका root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body.
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to eight or more months of pain relief before the nerve regenerates and another round of the procedure needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation, and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' name should not be confused with the SDR procedure.
Migrant workers in California, 1935
The term migrant worker has different official meanings and connotations in different parts of the world.
The United Nations ' definition is broad, including any people working outside of their home country.
The term can also be used to describe someone who migrates within a country, possibly their own, in order to pursue work such as seasonal work.
Photograph of Lil Wayne with teardrop tattoos below his eyes.
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a symbolic tattoo that is लगाई underneath the eye.
It has no fixed अर्थ but almost all meanings ( see below ) have some connection to prison.
U.S. Route 75 is a north–south U.S. Highway.
The highway 's northern terminus is in kittson काउंटी, Minnesota, at the Canadian border, where it once continued as Manitoba Highway 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in Dallas, Texas, where it is known as North Central Expressway.
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border route, from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico at Galveston, Texas.
However, the entire segment south of Dallas, Texas has been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45, a cutoff section of town-to-town surface road having become State Highway 75.
Lower Ninth Ward is a पड़ोस of the city of New Orleans.
As the name implies, it is part of the नवीं Ward of New Orleans.
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within New Orleans downriver of the Industrial Canal ; however, the City Planning Commission divides this area into the निम्नतर Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
The term `` Lower '' refers to its location farther towards the mouth of the मिसिसिपी नदी, `` down '' or `` below '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology.
But the 9th Ward, like all Wards in New Orleans, is a voting district.
The 9th Ward was added as a मतदान district in 1852.
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1, 2, 4, and 7 which make up the Holy Cross Area and Ward 9 Districts 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher voting district संख्याएँ in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side of the Industrial Canal.
The क्षेत्रफल आए to नेशनल ध्यान लिये इसके devastation in the aftermath of hurricane कैटरीना in 2005.
Hubble views of Copernicus crater ( inset ), which is about 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon, as seen from Earth दौरान a चंद्र ग्रहण, where the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural उपग्रह of the Earth, and the fifth largest satellite in the Solar System.
It is the largest natural satellite of a planet in the Solar System सापेक्ष to the size of its primary, having 27 % the diameter and 60 % the density of Earth, resulting in its mass.
The Moon is the second densest satellite after Io, a satellite of Jupiter.
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with धरती, always showing the same face with its near side marked by dark volcanic maria that fill between the bright ancient crustal highlands and the prominent impact craters.
It is the brightest object in the sky after the Sun, although its surface is actually very dark, with a reflectance similar to that of coal.
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have, since प्राचीन टाइम्स, made the Moon an important cultural influence on language, calendars, art and mythology.
the चंद्रमा 's गुरुत्वाकर्षक influence produces the समंदर tides और the मिनट lengthening of the दिन.
The Moon 's current orbital distance, about thirty times the diameter of the Earth, causes it to appear almost the same size in the sky as the Sun, allowing it to कवर the Sun nearly precisely in total solar eclipses.
This matching of apparent visual size is a संयोग.
The चंद्रमा 's रैखिक अलहदा इससे the Earth is currently increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm per year, but this rate is not constant.
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 billion years ago, not long after the Earth.
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin in the past, the current most widely accepted explanation is that the Moon formed from the मलबा बाएँ over बाद a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body.
The Moon is the only celestial body other than Earth on which humans have set foot.
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA Apollo program achieved the only manned missions to date, beginning with the first manned lunar orbiting mission by Apollo 8 in 1968, and six manned lunar landings between 1969 and 1972, with the first being Apollo 11.
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar रॉक्स, जिससे have been used to develop a geological understanding of the Moon 's origins, the formation of its internal structure, and its subsequent history.
बाद the अपोलो 17 मिशन in 1972, the चंद्रमा रै महरूम visited तभी by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the फाइनल सोवियत lunokhod रोवर.
Since 2004, Japan, China, India, the United States, and the European Space Agency have प्रत्येक sent lunar orbiters.
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of lunar water ice in permanently shadowed craters at the poles and bound into the lunar regolith.
Future manned missions to the Moon have been planned, including government as well as privately funded efforts.
The Moon remains, under the Outer Space Treaty, free to all nations to explore for peaceful purposes.
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004 ) was the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to that, he was the 33rd Governor of California ( 1967–1975 ), and a radio, film and television actor.
Born in Tampico, Illinois, and raised in Dixon, reagan was educated at Eureka College, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology.
After graduating, reagan moved first to Iowa to work as a radio broadcaster and then, in 1937, to Los Angeles where he began a career as an actor, first in films and later television.
Some of his most notable films include knute rockne, सब अमरीकी ( 1940 ), Kings Row ( 1942 ), and Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors Guild and later as a spokesman for General Electric ( GE ) ; उसके प्रारंभ in politics occurred during his work for GE.
Originally a member of the Democratic Party, his positions began shifting rightward in the 1950s, and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry Goldwater 's presidential candidacy in 1964, he was persuaded to seek the California governorship, winning two years later and again in 1970.
He was defeated in his run for the Republican presidential nomination in 1968 and in 1976, but won दोनो the nomination and general election in 1980, defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter.
As president, Reagan implemented sweeping new political and economic initiatives.
His supply-side economic policies, dubbed `` Reaganomics ``, advocated reducing tax rates to spur economic growth, controlling the money supply to reduce inflation, deregulation of the economy, and reducing government spending.
In his first term he survived an assassination attempt, took a मुश्किल line against labor unions, announced a new War on Drugs, and ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He was re-elected in a landslide in 1984, proclaiming that it was `` Morning in America ``.
His second term was primarily marked by foreign matters, such as the ending of the Cold War, the 1986 bombing of Libya, and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire ``, he supported anti-communist movements worldwide and spent his first term forgoing the strategy of détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR.
Reagan negotiated with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev, culminating in the INF Treaty and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan left दफ्तर in 1989.
In 1994, the former president disclosed कि he था महरूम diagnosed साथ Alzheimer 's disease earlier in the year ; he died ten years later at the age of 93.
A रूढ़िवादी प्रतीक, he बाँधने अत्यधिक in पब्लिक राय पोल of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों और is credited लिये generating an वैचारिक पुनर्जागरण on the अमरीकी राजनैतिक सही.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the संपूर्ण tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also tenakh, tenak, Tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The Tanakh is also ज्ञात as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '', also known as the Five Books of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that which is read '', is an alternative Hebrew term लिये the Tanakh.
the किताबे of the tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक परंपरा passed on by प्रत्येक पीढी, पुकारा the मौखिक तोरा.
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc class sport motorcycle.
It was introduced in 1995, and has been constantly updated throughout the years in response to नई उत्पाद from Honda, Suzuki, and Yamaha.
The ZX series is what was known as the Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s and still carries the name today.
Assassination attempts and plots on Presidents of the United States have been numerous : more than 20 attempts to kill sitting and former presidents, as well as the Presidents-elect, are known.
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President ), James A. गारफ़ील्ड ( the 20th President ), William McKinley ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ).
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : former President Theodore Roosevelt ( the 26th President ), and President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ).
Although the historian J.W. Clarke has suggested that most American assassinations were politically motivated actions, carried out by rational men, नहीं सब such attacks have been undertaken for political reasons.
Some attackers had questionable mental stability, and a few were judged legally insane.
Since the Vice President of the United States has for more than a century been elected from the same political party as the President, the assassination of the President is असंभावित to परिणाम in major policy changes.
This may explain why political समूह typically do not make such attacks.
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel written by Wilson Rawls in 1961 about a boy who buys and trains दो Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs.
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States.
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma, meaning `` red people '', and it is ज्ञात informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the संयोजन of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on November 16, 1907, Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', और इसके पूंजी और largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, और कृषि, ओक्लाहोमा relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, telecommunications, and biotechnology.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, ranking among the top states in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as ओक्लाहोमा 's प्राथमिक economic anchors, with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and eastern forests, most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains and the U.S. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, Scottish, Irish and Native American ancestry, more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in ओक्लाहोमा, दूसरी तभी to California.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle ड्राइव, a गंतव्य for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
redwall, by ब्रायन Jacques, is a series of children 's fantasy novels.
It is the title of the first book of the series, published in 1986, as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the book and the name of an animated TV series based on three of the novels ( Redwall, Mattimeo, and Martin the Warrior ), which first aired in 1999.
The books are primarily aimed at पुरानी children, but have fans of all ages.
There have been twenty-two novels और two picture books published.
The twenty-second, and final, novel, The Rogue Crew, was posthumously released on May 3, 2011.
Natural Gas is usually measured by volume in the United States and is stated in cubic feet.
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas needed to भरण a volume of one cubic foot under set conditions of pressure and temperature.To measure larger amounts of natural gas, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet, and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet.
To provide greater accuracy in comparing fuels, energy content is measured in terms of `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's ). ''
A BTU is the amount of heat required to raise one पाउंड of जल ( लगभग a pint ), one degree Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density.
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- SI unit of heat energy equal to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ).
It is approximately the energy equivalent of burning 100 cubic फीट ( प्रायः referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not energy content, a therm factor is used by ( Natural ) gas companies to convert the volume of gas used to its heat equivalent, and thus calculate the actual energy use.
the therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रायः in the इकाई therms/ccf.
It will vary with the mix of hydrocarbons in the प्राकृतिक gas.
Natural gas with a higher than average concentration of ethane, propane or butane will have a higher therm factor.
Impurities, such as carbon dioxide or nitrogen, lower the therm factor.
the आवाज़ of the गैस is calculated as if measured at standard temperature and pressure ( STP ).
The heat content of प्राकृतिक गैस is solely dependent on the composition of the gas, and is independent of temperature and pressure.
One therm is बराबर to about 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can also be provided by about of natural gas.
The therm sometimes has been confused with the thermie ( see below ).
The names of both units come from the Greek word लिये heat.
a thermie ( th ) is a मीट्रिक ईकाई of ऊष्मा उर्जा, भाग of the meter-tonne-second प्रणाली sometimes प्रयुक्त by यूरोपीय इंजीनियर्स.
The thermie is बराबर to the राशि of उर्जा required to raise the temperature of 1 tonne of water by 1 °C.
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 BTU.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James बुकानन and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave राज्य continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none पहचाना the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more स्लेव states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending गुलामी a युद्ध goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant कमांड of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western थिएटर, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the रास्ता.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the confederate पूंजी.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और खाना supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28, 1949 ) is a former U.S. track and field athlete, प्रेरक speaker, socialite, television personality and businessman.
he जीती the सुनहरा पदक लिये decathlon in the मॉन्ट्रियल 1976 Summer Olympics.
Following his Olympic win and the related recognition, he married Kris Kardashian, and his professional करियर विकसित into होने a television celebrity.
By 1981, he had starred in several made-for-TV movies and was erik Estrada 's replacement on the top rated TV series CHiPs.
He has six children : Burt, Casey, Brandon, Brody, Kendall and Kylie.
Since his 1991 marriage to क्रिस जेनर, he is the stepfather to Kourtney, Kim, Khloe and Rob Kardashian.
Since 2007, he has appeared with his blended family on Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ).
सबसे E. कोलाई strains हैं हानिरहित, लकिन कुछ serotypes can कारण गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in इंसानो, और हैं occasionally जिम्मेदार लिये उत्पाद recalls due to food contamination.
The harmless strains are part of the normal फ्लोरा of the gut, and can benefit their hosts by producing vitamin K2, and by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine.
E. कोलाई और सम्बन्धित जीवाणु constitute परिचय 0.1 % of आंत फ्लोरा, और fecal–oral हस्तांतरण is the प्रमुख रूट through जिससे रोगजनक strains of the bacterium कारण बीमारी.
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of time, which makes them ideal indicator organisms to test पर्यावरणीय नमूने लिये fecal contamination.
There is, however, a growing body of research that has examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods outside of the host.
The bacterium can भी be grown easily and inexpensively in a laboratory setting, and has been intensively investigated for over 60 years.
E. coli is the most widely studied prokaryotic model organism, and an important species in the fields of biotechnology and microbiology, where it has served as the host organism for the बहुमत of work with recombinant DNA.
Area code 217 is the North American telephone area code for much of पश्चिमी और central Illinois.
The 217 area includes Illinois ' capital, Springfield, plus Champaign, Urbana, Decatur, Danville, Quincy, and Rantoul.
217 was one of the असली area codes, which were created in 1947.
The only significant change in 217 's boundaries was in 1957, when its northern portion was combined with part of area code 815 to form area code 309.
चित्र of the largest Antarctic ozone hole ever recorded ( September 2006 ), over the Southern pole
परतों of the atmosphere ( not to scale )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed चूंकि the लेट 1970s : a स्थिर मनाही of परिचय 4 % प्रति दशक in the कुल volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ), and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions.
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole.
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena, there are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion events.
The details of polar ozone hole formation differ from that of mid-latitude thinning, but the most important process in दोनो is catalytic विनाश of ozone by atomic halogens.
The main सोर्स of ये हैलोजन अणु in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( cfcs, freons, halons ).
These compounds are transported into the stratosphere after being emitted at the surface.
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to increase as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs और अन्य contributory substances are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ).
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere, observed and projected decreases in ozone have generated worldwide concern leading to adoption of the Montreal Protocol that bans the production of CFCs, halons, and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane.
It is suspected that a variety of biological consequences such as increases in skin cancer, cataracts, damage to plants, and reduction of plankton populations in the ocean 's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion.
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution 's आधारभूत उद्देश्य and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to सब of the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
Czechoslovakian shot putter plihan at the 1957 East German Indoor Athletics Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track and field event involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing motion ) a भारी spherical object —the shot—as far as possible.
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the modern Olympics since their revival in 1896, women 's प्रतियोगिता began in 1948.
मैप of the संयुक्त Nations ( UN ) member states, with their territories ( including dependent territories ) recognized by the UN in blue
वहीँ हैं संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( un ) सदस्य राज्य, और प्रत्येक of उन्हें is a सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सामान्य सभा.
The criteria for admission of new members are set out in the United Nations Charter, Chapter II, Article 4:
A अनुशंसा लिये प्रवेश इससे the सुरक्षा परिषद requires affirmative votes from at least nine of the council 's fifteen members, with none of the five permanent members voting against.
The Security Council 's recommendation must then be subsequently स्वीकृत in the सामान्य Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign states can become UN members, and currently all UN members are sovereign states ( although a few members were not sovereign when they joined the UN ).
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a number of states that may be considered sovereign states according to the Montevideo Convention criteria are not members because the UN does not consider them to possess sovereignty, mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members.
In addition to the member states, the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy देखिए और फिलिस्तीन ), intergovernmental organizations, and other international organizations and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are not precisely defined, to become observers at the General Assembly, allowing them to participate and speak, but not vote, in General Assembly meetings.
The Eiffel Tower (, ) is an iron lattice tower located on the Champ de Mars in Paris, named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel, whose company designed and built the tower.
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair, it has become both a global cultural icon of France and one of the most recognizable structures in the world.
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the most-visited paid monument in the world ; 7.1 million people ascended it in 2011.
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public in the European Union and the highest in Europe as long as the platform of the Ostankino Tower, at, remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000.
The tower received its 250 millionth visitor in 2010.
The tower स्टैंड लम्बा, about the same height as an 81-storey building.
During its construction, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the tallest man-made structure in the world, a title it held for 41 years, until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930.
Because of the addition, in 1957, of the antenna atop the Eiffel Tower, it is now taller than the Chrysler Building.
Not including broadcast antennas, it is the second-tallest structure in France, after the Millau Viaduct.
the मीनार रै तीन स्तर लिये विज़िटर.
Tickets can be purchased to ascend, by stairs or lift ( elevator ), to the first and second levels.
The walk from ground level to the first level is over 300 steps, as is the walk from the first to the second level.
The third and highest level is accessible only by lift—stairs do exist but are usually closed to the public.
The first and second स्तर have restaurants.
The tower has become the most prominent प्रतीक of दोनो पेरिस and France, often in the establishing shot of films set in the city.
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings III ( born May 23, 1974 ) is an American game show contestant and author.
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest winning streak on the U.S. syndicated game show Jeopardy !
and as being the all-time leading धन विजेता on American game shows.
In 2004, जेनिंग्स won 74 Jeopardy !
खेल पहले he थी पराजित by चैलेंजर नैंसी zerg on उसके 75th रूप.
उसके कुल आय on jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins, a $ 2,000 second-place prize in his 75th appearance, a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of champions, as well as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge.
During his first run of Jeopardy !
दिखावे, जेनिंग्स अर्जित the रिकार्ड लिये the उच्चतम अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ winnings.
His total was surpassed by ब्रैड Rutter, who defeated Jennings in the finals of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on May 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the रिकार्ड बाद appearing on several other game shows, culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired on अक्तूबर 10, 2008 ), though Rutter retains the Jeopardy !
रिकार्ड.
After his success on jeopardy !, जेनिंग्स लिखा परिचय उसके अनुभव और छान अमरीकी ट्रिविया इतिहास और संस्कृति in उसके किताब brainiac : adventures in the जिज्ञासु, प्रतिस्पर्धी, बाध्यता संसार of ट्रिविया buffs, प्रकाशित in 2006.
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [ LCF ] in French ) is a पेशेवर sports league located in Canada.
The CFL is the highest level of competition in Canadian football, a form of gridiron football closely related to American football.
Its eight current teams, which are located in eight separate cities, हैं divided into two divisions of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division.
The league 's 19-week regular season runs from late June to early November ; each team plays 18 games with one bye week.
Following the regular season, the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the fourth place team in one division has a better record than the third place team in the other division, when the team with the better record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the other division 's playoff ) compete in the लीग 's three-week डिवीजनल playoffs, जिससे culminate in the late-november धूसर Cup championship, the country 's largest annual sports and television event.
The CFL was officially founded on January 19, 1958, making it the second oldest gridiron football league in North America still in operation, although all its teams long predate the modern formation of the league.
It is the highest level of play in Canadian football, the most popular football league in Canada, and the second-most popular major sports league in कनाडा, बाद the नेशनल हॉकी League.
Although ice hockey is Canada 's most popular sport, the CFL has increased the popularity of Canadian football in Quebec and Western Canada.
Canadian football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e. youth, high school, CJFL, QJFL, CIS and senior leagues such as the Alberta Football League ).
The 2010s will be a significant दशक for the CFL in terms of growth, as teams have renovated, expanded stadiums, or plan to build entirely new stadiums.
The Montreal Alouettes accomplished this first, adding 5,000 seats to Percival Molson Memorial Stadium in time for the 2010 CFL season.
The Edmonton Eskimos and Calgary Stampeders also renovated their respective stadiums and सुविधाएं for the 2010 season.
In 2011, the BC Lions निभाई under a new, retractable roof in BC Place after spending one and a half seasons at Empire Field.
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in an entirely new stadium at the University of Manitoba, scheduled to open in time for the 2013 season.
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also looking at new or extensively-renovated stadiums in the following years.
There are also hopes of expanding the league to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a team in either the more populated Halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton.
According to sports historian Douglas Brei, the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only professional sports league in North America, major or minor league, in which each existing franchise has won at least one league शीर्षक जबकि in उनके current location.
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen ; an interaction समान to a lock and key.
An antibody ( Ab ), also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ), is a large Y-shaped protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as जीवाणु and viruses.
The antibody recognizes a unique part of the foreign निशाना, called an antigen.
प्रत्येक टिप of the `` y '' of an एंटीबॉडी contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a ताला ) कि is विशिष्ट लिये एक particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on an प्रतिजन, allowing ये दो structures to bind साथ साथ परिशुद्धता.
Using this binding mechanism, an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other parts of the immune system, or can neutralize its target directly ( for example, by blocking a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ).
The production of antibodies is the main function of the humoral immune system.
Antibodies are secreted by a type of श्वेत blood cell called a plasma cell.
antibodies can occur in दो शारीरिक फ़ॉर्म, a घुलनशील रूप कि is स्रावित इससे the कोशिका, और a झिल्ली -bound रूप कि is संलग्न to the सतह of a b कोशिका और is referred to as the b कोशिका receptor ( bcr ).
The BCR is only found on the surface of B cells and facilitates the activation of these cells and their subsequent differentiation into either antibody factories called plasma cells, or memory B cells that will survive in the body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond तेज़ upon भविष्य एक्सपोज़र.
In most cases, interaction of the B cell with a T helper cell is necessary to produce full activation of the B cell and, therefore, antibody generation following antigen binding.
Soluble antibodies are released into the blood and tissue fluids, as well as many secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms.
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms antibody and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically made of basic structural units—each with two large heavy chains and two small light chains.
वहीँ are several different types of antibody heavy chains, and several different kinds of antibodies, which are grouped into different isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess.
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals, which perform different roles, and help direct the appropriate immune response for each different type of foreign object they encounter.
Though the सामान्य ढांचा of सब antibodies is बहुत समान, a छोटी प्रदेश at the टिप of the प्रोटीन is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय, allowing लाखो of antibodies साथ थोड़ा अलग टिप structures, or प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग साइट, to मौजूद.
This region is known as the hypervariable प्रदेश.
Each of these variants can bind to a different antigen.
This enormous विविधता of antibodies allows the immune system to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens.
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a set of gene segments that encode different antigen binding sites ( or paratopes ), followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene, which create further diversity.
Antibody genes also re-organize in a प्रक्रम called class switching that changes the base of the heavy chain to another, creating a different isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable region.
This allows a सिंगल antibody to be used by several different parts of the immune system.
The symbol used by the Zodiac Killer to sign his correspondence
The Zodiac Killer was a serial killer who operated in Northern California in the late 1960s और early 1970s.
the कातिल 's identity remains unknown.
The Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia, Vallejo, Lake Berryessa, and San Francisco between December 1968 and October 1969.
Four men और three women between the ages of 16 and 29 were targeted.
The killer originated the name `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting letters sent to the local Bay Area press.
These letters शामिल four cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the four cryptograms sent, only one has been definitively solved.
Suspects have महरूम नामित by law enforcement and amateur investigators, but no conclusive evidence has surfaced.
In April 2004, the San Francisco Police Department marked the case `` inactive '', yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007.
The case also remains open in the city of Vallejo, as well as in Napa County and Solano County.
The California विभाग of इंसाफ has maintained an open case file on the Zodiac murders since 1969.
Jennings is a small city in and the parish seat of Jefferson Davis Parish, Louisiana, संयुक्त States, near Lake Charles.
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 census, a small decline from the 2000 tabulation.
The city is 68 प्रतिशत white.
जेनिंग्स is the principal city of the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area, which includes all of Jefferson Davis Parish.
It is also part of the larger Lake charles-jennings संयुक्त Statistical Area.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the manipulation of पदार्थ on an atomic and molecular scale.
The earliest, widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products, also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale, and so the definition shifted from a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold.
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies '' as खूब as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the broad range of research and applications whose common trait is size.
Because of the variety of potential अनुप्रयोग ( including industrial and military ), governments have invested billions of dollars in nanotechnology research.
Through its National Nanotechnology Initiative, the USA has invested 3.7 billion dollars.
The European Union has invested 1.2 billion and Japan 750 million dollars.
nanotechnology as पारिभाषित by आकार is naturally बहुत व्यापक, सहित फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान as विविध as सतह विज्ञान, सशुल्क रसायन, आणविक जीवविज्ञान, सेमीकंडक्टर भौतिकी, microfabrication, etc.
The associated research and applications are equally diverse, ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to completely new approaches based upon molecular self-assembly, from developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the परमाणु स्केल.
Scientists currently debate the future implications of nanotechnology.
Nanotechnology may be able to create many new materials and devices with a vast range of अनुप्रयोग, ऐसे as in medicine, electronics, biomaterials and energy production.
On the other hand, nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as any new technology, including concerns about the toxicity and environmental impact of nanomaterials, and their potential effects on global economics, as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios.
These concerns have led to a debate among advocacy groups and governments on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.
Map of the पूर्वी bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the former कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of सेंट्रल and Eastern Europe, generally the Soviet Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact.
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc were also used to denote groupings of states लकीर साथ the Soviet Union, although these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe.
The New Jersey gubernatorial election of 2009 took place on November 3, 2009.
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term and was being challenged by Republican Chris Christie, स्वतंत्र Christopher Daggett and nine others, in addition to several write-in candidates.
Christie won the election, with about 48.5 percent of the vote, to 44.9 percent for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett.
क्रिस्टी जीती the largest हाशिया लिये a पहला पद रिपब्लिकन चूंकि 1969.
क्रिस्टी assumed office on January 19, 2010.
This was the first election to fill the newly created office of Lieutenant Governor.
The candidates for governor and lieutenant governor were joined together as a single choice, so that voters did not have the अवसर to split the ticket.
Kim Guadagno, Christie 's running mate, became New Jersey 's first lieutenant governor following her inauguration.
स्वास्थ्य परवाह in the संयुक्त राज्य is provided by अनेक पृथक संगठन.
Health care facilities are largely owned and operated by private sector businesses.
Health बीमे for public sector employees is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending comes from programs such as Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, the Children 's Health Insurance Program, and the Veterans Health Administration.
Most of the population under 65 is insured by their or a family member 's employer, some buy health insurance on their own, and the remainder are uninsured.
Of 17 high-income देशों पढ़ाई by the National Institutes of Health in 2013, the United States was at or near the bottom in infant mortality, heart and lung disease, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, and rates of disability.
Together, such issues place the U.S. at the bottom of the list for life expectancy.
On average, a U.S. male can be expected to live almost four fewer years than those in the top-ranked country.
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ), the United States spent more on health care per capita ( $ 7,146 ), और अधिक on स्वास्थ्य care as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other nation in 2008.
The Commonwealth Fund ranked the United States last in the quality of health care among समान देशों, and notes U.S. care costs the most.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported कि 49.9 लाख निवासियों, 16.3 % of the population, were uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million residents, 16.1 % of the population, in 2009 ).
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( iom ) रपट कहा : `` the United States is among the few industrialized nations in the world that does not guarantee access to health care for its population. ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With the exception of Mexico, Turkey, and the United States, all OECD countries had achieved universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 रपट observed that lack of health insurance causes roughly 48,000 unnecessary deaths every year in the United States.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers लिये bankruptcies claimed high medical expenses.
A 2013 study found that about 25 % of सब senior citizens declare bankruptcy due to medical expenses, and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence.
On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ) became law, providing for major changes in health insurance.
In physiology, body जल is the water content of the human body.
A significant भिन्न of the human body is water.
आर्थर Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the total amount of water in a man of average weight ( 70 kilograms ) is approximately 40 litres, averaging 57 percent of his total body weight.
In a newborn infant, this may be as high as 75 percent of the body weight, but it progressively decreases from birth to old age, most of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life.
भी, मोटापा decreases the प्रतिशत of जल in the देह, sometimes to as कम as 45 प्रतिशत ''.
These figures are statistical averages, so are illustrative, and like all biostatistics, will vary with things like type of population, आयु और क्रमांक of people sampled, and methodology.
So there is not, and can not be, a figure that is exactly the same for all people, for this or any other physiological measure.
For example, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology for Nurses gives a figure of 60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable to water, which approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased states where देह जल is affected, the compartment or compartments that have changed can give clues to the nature of the problem.
Body water is regulated by hormones, including anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH ), aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide.
प्रति netter 's एटलस of इंसान physiology, देह जल is टूटा bas into the following कम्पार्टमेंटs:
intracellular द्रव ( 2/3 of देह जल ).
Per Guyton, in a body containing 40 लीटर of द्रव, about 25 litres is intracellular, which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb.
Jackson 's texts states 70 % of body fluid is intracellular.
extracellular fluid ( 1/3 of body water ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, for a 40 litre body, about 15 litres is extracellular, which amounts to 37.5 % Again, this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here.
Plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular fluid ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, of the 15 litres of extracellular fluid, plasma volume averages 3 litres.
This amounts to 20 %, the same as per Netter 's Atlas.
Interstitial fluid ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a. `` third space, '' normally उपेक्षित in calculations )
Contained inside organs, such as the gastrointestinal, cerebrospinal, peritoneal, and ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a term used in psychology to reflect a person 's overall emotional evaluation of his or her own worth.
It is a judgement of oneself as well as an रवैया toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example, `` i am competent, '' `` I am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph, despair, pride and shame.
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is what we think about the self ; self-esteem, is the positive or negative evaluations of the self, as in how we feel about it. ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative आयाम of the स्वः कि includes feelings of worthiness, prides and discouragement.
एक 's self-esteem is भी closely संबद्ध साथ self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition कि a व्यक्ति रै which represents their judgements of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, Morris Rosenberg and social-learning theorists defined self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as `` the experience of being competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness. ''
according to branden, self-esteem is the योग of self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी क्षमता ) और self-respect ( a अहसास of निजी लायक ).
It exists as a consequence of the implicit निर्णय that every person has of their ability to face life 's challenges, to understand and solve problems, and their right to achieve happiness, and be given respect.
As a social psychological construct, self-esteem is attractive because researchers have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes, such as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
In addition, self-esteem has also been treated as an महत्वपूर्ण निष्कर्ष due to its close relation with psychological well-being ( Marsh 1989 ).
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example, `` I believe I am a good writer and I feel happy about that '' ) or a global extent ( for example, `` I believe I am a bad person, and feel bad about myself in general '' ).
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), though normal, short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, and self-integrity.
A Masonic Lodge, often termed a Private Lodge or Constituent Lodge, is the basic organisational unit of Freemasonry.
Every new Lodge must be warranted or चार्टर्ड by a ग्रैंड आवास, but is subject to its direction only in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction.
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand Lodge in London ( today called the United Grand Lodge of England ) have the unique privilege to operate as time immemorial i.e. without such warrant ; only one other lodge operates without a warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London, although it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title.
A freemason is generally entitled to visit any Lodge, in any jurisdiction ( i.e. under any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own.
In some jurisdictions this विशेषाधिकार is प्रतिबंधित to Master Masons ( that is, Freemasons who have attained the Order 's third degree ).
He is first usually required to check, and certify, the regularity of the relationship of the Lodge - and be able to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership.
Freemasons gather together as a Lodge to work the three basic Degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft and Master Mason.
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered in st Helens, United Kingdom and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Japan-based NSG Group.
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an स्वतंत्र company listed on the London Stock Exchange and for a time was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index.
a quotation is the repetition of एक अभिव्यक्ति as भाग of another एक, विशेषकर जब the कोटेड अभिव्यक्ति is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to इसके असली सोर्स, और it is indicated by ( punctuated साथ ) quotation marks.
A quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of any other form of expression, especially parts of artistic works : elements of a painting, scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition.
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on Monday ( link will display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is लगभग in व्यास, अंधेरा red when fully mature, and, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि antiquity for both its flavour and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's most traded spice.
It is one of the most common spices added to European cuisine and its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be confused with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the modern world, often paired with salt.
Fire hydrant in charlottesville, Virginia, USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a आग प्लग in the संयुक्त States or as a johnny pump in New York City ), is an active fire protection measure, and a source of water provided in most urban, suburban and rural areas with municipal water service to enable firefighters to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance discount since firefighters should be able to more rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property.
The concept of fire plugs तिथियाँ to at least the 17th century.
This was a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig down to the wooden water mains and hastily bore a hole to secure water to fight fires.
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well, and be transported इससे the well to the fire by bucket brigades or, later, by hand-pumped fire engines.
The holes were then plugged with stoppers, normally redwood, which over समय आए to be known as fire plugs.
The location of the plug would often be recorded or marked so that it could be reused in future fires.
This is the source of the colloquial पद fire plug still used for fire hydrants today.
After the Great Fire of London in 1666, the city installed water mains with holes drilled at intervals, equipped with risers, allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street level.
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick Graff Sr., Chief Engineer of the Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801.
It had a combination hose/faucet आउटलेट and was of `` wet barrel '' design with the valve in the top.
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a fire hydrant, but this can not be verified because the पेटेंट office in Washington D.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process.
The President of the Republic of South Africa is the head of state and head of government under South Africa 's Constitution.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of state was called the State President.
The President is elected by members of the National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament, and is usually the leader of the largest party, which has been the African National Congress since the first non-racial चुनावों यहूद आयोजित on 27 April 1994.
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct role of prime मंत्री, लकिन the two roles were merged in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office.
The 1993 and later constitutions limits the president 's time in दफ्तर to two five-year terms.
The first President to be elected under the new constitution was Nelson Mandela, and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma.
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ), there was a Government of National Unity, in which an MP from the largest opposition party was entitled to a position as Deputy President.
Along with Thabo Mbeki, the last State President, F.W. De Klerk also served as Deputy President, in his capacity as the leader of the National Party which was the second-largest party in the new Parliament.
But De Klerk later resigned and went into opposition with his party.
A voluntary coalition government continues to exist under the new constitution ( adopted in 1996 ), although there have been no नियुक्ति of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president.
Special education or special needs education is the education of students with special needs in a way that addresses the students ' individual differences and needs.
Ideally, this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures, adapted equipment and materials, accessible settings, and other interventions designed to help learners with खास needs achieve a उच्चतर स्तर of निजी self-sufficiency और कामयाबी in स्कूल और जातियाँ than would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education.
Common special needs include challenges with learning, communication challenges, emotional and behavioral विकार, शारीरिक disabilities, and developmental disorders.
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from additional educational services such as different approaches to teaching, use of technology, a specifically adapted शिक्षण area, or resource room.
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम, लकिन the पद `` special education '' is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of students whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom, and gifted education is handled separately.
In most developed countries, educators are modifying teaching methods and environments so that the maximum number of students are served in general education environments.
Special education in developed countries is often regarded कम as a `` place '' and more as `` a range of services, available in every school. ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas and improve अकादमिक achievement for many students.
The opposite of खास education is general education.
सामान्य शिक्षा is the मानक curriculum प्रस्तुत साथ मानक शिक्षण विधि और बगैर अतिरिक्त supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12, 1930, as Schwartz György ) is a Hungarian-American कारोबार महारथी, निवेशकों, and philanthropist.
he is the अध्यक्ष of सोरोस निधि प्रबन्धन.
Soros supports progressive-liberal कल्याणकारी.
He is known as `` The Man Who Broke the Bank of England `` because of his in investment profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis.
Between 1979 and 2011, Soros gave away over $ 8 billion to human rights, public health, and शिक्षा causes.
he निभाई a significant भूमिका in the शांतिपूर्ण परिवर्तन इससे साम्यवादी to पूंजीवाद in हंगेरियाई ( 1984–89 ) और provided एक of यूरोपीय 's largest उच्चतर शिक्षा endowments to सेंट्रल यूरोपीय विश्वविद्यालयों in बुडापेस्ट.
Soros is also the chairman of the Open Society Institute.
an कर्ता portraying सिकंदर ग्राहम घंटी बोलना into an जल्दी मॉडल टेलीफोन.
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals, the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims.
The development of the modern electrical telephone involved an array of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals and numerous companies.
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898, from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission device, to failed attempts to use `` make-and-break '' current, to कामयाब प्रयोग साथ इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson, and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century.
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA, M.F.A. ) is a ग्रैजुएट उपाधि typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate पढ़ाई परे the स्नातक 's उपाधि ( bfa ), हालांकि the पद of पढ़ाई होगा vary by देश or by विश्वविद्यालयों.
The MFA is a creative degree usually awarded as a terminal degree in visual arts, creative writing, filmmaking, dance, or theatre and other performing कला.
Coursework is primarily of an लागू or performing nature with the program often culminating in a major work or performance.
Master of Fine Arts programs have generally required a bachelor 's degree prior to admission, but many do not require that the undergraduate major be the वही as the mfa फ़ील्ड of study.
The most important admissions requirement has often been a sample portfolio or a performance audition.
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA, while an academic program, centers around practice in the particular field, whereas programs leading to the ma प्रायः बीच on the scholarly, अकादमिक, or critical study of the field.
additionally, in the संयुक्त राज्य, an mfa is पहचाना as a टर्मिनल उपाधि लिये practitioners of विज़ुअल आर्ट, डिज़ाइन, नृत्य, थिएटर, film/video, नई मीडिया, और रचनात्मक लिखने - अर्थ कि it is माना to be the उच्चतम उपाधि in इसके फ़ील्ड, और is प्रयुक्त as a न्यूनतम योग्यता to be समर्थ to लागू to become a full-time प्राध्यापक शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों स्तर in these disciplines.
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts, notably in the case of music performance, where the mfa is not seen as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree.
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between रचनात्मक उत्पादन और जारी academic research, some universities have established practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as creative writing, visual arts, new media, design and theater.
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing, and to a lesser extent in design and new media, the influx of graduates from practice-based PhD programs has not appreciably changed the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet.
इस is an जारी contentious टॉपिक, और is the बारंबार विषय of अकादमिक panels, विशेषकर at the सालाना कॉलेज आर्ट संघ conference.
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms कि the phd is not required as a terminal degree in the visual arts.
The atomic bombings of the शहरों of हिरोशिमा and Nagasaki in Japan were conducted by the United States during the final stages of World War II in 1945.
The two events are the only use of nuclear weapons in war to date.
Following a firebombing campaign that destroyed many Japanese शहरों, the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan.
The युद्ध in यूरोपीय ended जब Nazi Germany signed its instrument of surrender on 8 May, but the Pacific War continued.
Together with the United Kingdom and the Republic of China, the United States called for a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945, threatening जापानी with `` prompt and utter destruction ''.
The Japanese government ignored this ultimatum, and the United राज्य deployed two nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan Project.
American airmen dropped Little Boy on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945, followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August.
Within the first two to four months of the bombings, the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in हिरोशिमा and 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki, with roughly half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day.
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that, of the people who died on the दिन of the explosion, 60 % died from flash or flame burns, 30 % from falling debris and 10 % from other causes.
During the following months, large numbers died from the effect of burns, radiation sickness, and other injuries, compounded by illness.
In a US estimate of the total immediate and short term cause of death, 15–20 % died from radiation sickness, 20–30 % इससे burns, and 50–60 % from other injuries, compounded by illness.
In both cities, most of the dead were civilians, हालांकि हिरोशिमा had a sizeable garrison.
On 15 August, six days after the bombing of Nagasaki, Japan announced its surrender to the Allies, signing the यंत्र of Surrender on 2 September, officially ending World War II.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war Japan 's adopting Three Non-Nuclear Principles, forbidding the nation from nuclear armament.
The role of the bombings in Japan 's surrender and their नैतिक औचित्य are still debated.
मोहनदास करमचंद गांधी ( ; 2 अक्तूबर 1869 – 30 जनवरी 1948 ), commonly ज्ञात as महात्मा गांधी, थी the preeminent नेता of भारतीय राष्ट्रवाद in british-ruled India.
Employing non-violent civil disobedience, Gandhi led India to independence and inspired आंदोलनों for non-violence, civil rights and freedom across the world.
The son of a senior government official, गांधी थी born and raised in a Hindu Bania community in coastal Gujarat, and trained in law in London.
Gandhi became famous by fighting for the civil rights of Muslim and Hindu Indians in South Africa, using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed.
Returning to India in 1915, he set about organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong opponent of `` communalism `` ( i.e. basing politics on religion ) he reached out widely to all religious groups.
He became a leader of Muslims protesting the declining status of the Caliphate.
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women 's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, increasing आर्थिक self-reliance, and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination.
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax with the Dandi Salt March in 1930, और बाद in demanding the British to immediately Quit India in 1942, during World War II.
He was imprisoned for that and लिये numerous other political offenses over the years.
Gandhi sought to अभ्यास non-violence and truth in all situations, and advocated that others do the same.
He saw the villages as the core of the true India and promoted self-sufficiency ; he did not support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the traditional Indian dhoti and चादर, woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha.
His chief political enemy in Britain was Winston चर्चिल, who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
He was a समर्पित शाकाहारी, and undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification and political mobilization.
In his last year, unhappy at the partition of India, Gandhi worked to stop the carnage between Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between India and Pakistan.
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram Godse who thought Gandhi was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims.
30 January is observed as Martyrs ' Day in इण्डिया.
The honorific महात्मा ( `` Great Soul '' ) was applied to him by 1914.
In India he was also called Bapu ( `` Father '' ).
He is known in India as the Father of the Nation ; his birthday, 2 October, is commemorated there as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and world-wide as the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Day of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy was not theoretical but one of pragmatism, that is, practicing his principles in the moment.
Asked to give a message to the people, he would respond, `` My life is my message. ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – May 10, 1977 ), born Lucille Fay LeSueur, was an American actress in film, television and theatre.
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies पहले debuting on Broadway, Crawford was signed to a motion picture contract by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925.
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of her parts, Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity and became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, Crawford 's fame rivaled, and later outlasted, MGM colleagues Norma शियर्र और greta Garbo.
Crawford often played hardworking young women who find romance and financial success.
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were well प्राप्त by अवसाद -era audiences and were popular with women.
Crawford became one of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars and one of the highest paid women in the United States, but her films began खोने धन और by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison ''.
बाद an अनुपस्थिति of nearly दो सालो from the screen, Crawford staged a comeback by starring in Mildred Pierce ( 1945 ), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress.
In 1955, she became involved with the Pepsi-Cola Company through her marriage to company Chairman अल्फ्रेड स्टील.
After his death in 1959, Crawford was elected to fill उसके रिक्ति on the फलक of directors but was forcibly retired in 1973.
She continued acting in film and television regularly through the 1960s, when her performances became fewer ; after the release of the British horror film Trog in 1970, Crawford retired from the screen.
Following a public appearance in 1974, बाद जिससे unflattering photographs were published, Crawford withdrew from public life and became increasingly reclusive until her death in 1977.
Crawford शादीशुदा चार times.
Her first three marriages ended in तलाक ; the last ended with the death of husband Alfred Steele.
She adopted five children, one of whom was reclaimed by his birth mother.
Crawford 's संबंध साथ उसके two older children, Christina and Christopher, were acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the two and, after Crawford 's death, Christina wrote a `` tell-all '' memoir, Mommie Dearest, in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford.
She was voted the tenth greatest female star in the history of American cinema by the अमरीकी Film Institute.
1910 बुइक Tonneau without tonneau cover
1903 Ford Model A rear-door Tonneau
1903 Lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or soft cover used to protect unoccupied यात्री सीटे in a convertible or roadster, or the cargo bed in a pickup truck.
Hard tonneau covers open by a hinging or folding mechanism जबकि soft covers open by rolling up.
The tonneau cover is used to conceal cargo.
When the cover is pulled out, it keeps items out of the sun and provides extra security by keeping personal वस्तुएं आउट of sight, as well as shielding the driver from view.
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to send and read text-based messages of up to 140 characters, known as `` tweets ''.
Twitter was created in March 2006 by Jack dorsey and by July, the social networking site was launched.
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity, with over 500 million registered users as of 2012, generating over 340 लाख tweets daily and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day.
Since its launch, Twitter has become one of the ten most visited websites on the Internet, and has been described as `` the SMS of the अंतरजाल. ''
अपंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can पढ़ा tweets, जबकि पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can पोस्ट tweets through the जालस्थल इंटरफ़ेस, sms, or a दायरा of ऐप्स लिये मोबाईल डिवाइस.
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco, with अतिरिक्त servers and offices in New York City, Boston, and San Antonio.
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film, co-produced and directed by Todd Phillips and written by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore.
It is the first film of The Hangover franchise.The film stars Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis, Heather Graham, Justin Bartha, and Jeffrey Tambor.
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck, Stu Price and Alan Garner, who travel to Las Vegas for a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug Billings ' impending marriage.
However, Phil, Stu and Alan have no memory of the पिछला रात्रि 's events and must find Doug before the wedding can take place.
Lucas and Moore wrote the script after executive producer Chris Bender 's friend disappeared and had a large bill after being sent to a strip club.
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 million, Philips and Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to include a tiger as well as a subplot involving a baby और a पुलिस क्रूजर, और भी including boxer Mike Tyson.
Filming took place in Nevada for 15 days, and दौरान फिल्मांकन, the तीन main actors ( Cooper, Helms and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship.
The hangover was released on June 5, 2009, becoming a critical and commercial success.
It became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009, with a worldwide gross of over US $ 467 million.
Critics praised the film 's comedic approach but criticized it for its vulgarity.
The film won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy, and received multiple other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world, as well as the second highest-grossing R-rated comedy ever in the United States, surpassing a record previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012.
Out of all R-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing ever in the U.S., behind only The Passion of the Christ and The Matrix Reloaded.
A sequel, The Hangover Part II, was released in 2011, and a third and final film, The Hangover Part III, is set for release in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, showing chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of cell division necessary for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes.
The cells produced by meiosis are gametes or spores.
In many organisms, including all animals and land plants ( but not some other groups such as fungi ), gametes are called sperm and egg कोशिकाएं.
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a क्रमांक of similarities with the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis, it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a different genetic combination in each gamete, compared with the co-existence of प्रत्येक of the दो पृथक pairs of प्रत्येक chromosome ( one received from each parent ) in each cell which results from mitosis.
the निष्कर्ष of meiosis is potentially चार ( genetically अद्वितीय ) अगुणित कोशिकाएं, compared साथ the दो ( genetically एकसमान ) द्विगुणित कोशिकाएं उत्पादित इससे समसूत्रण.
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of each chromosome —one from the organism 's mother and one from its father.
The cell divides twice, potentially producing up to four haploid cells containing one copy of each chromosome.
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases, such as the formation of oocytes in mammals, only one of the possible four haploid cells survives. )
In animals the haploid cell resulting from meiosis is a male or female gamete.
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete cells is a unique mixture of maternal and paternal DNA, resulting in offspring that are genetically distinct from either parent.
This gives rise to जेनेटिक diversity in sexually reproducing populations.
This genetic diversity can provide the विभिन्नता of शारीरिक और behavioural गुण ( phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can act, but, as described below in Section 6, Origin and function of meiosis, the genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis.
it is also noteworthy that during meiosis, specific genes are more highly transcribed, and these are called the meiome, the term used in functional genomics for the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a key feature for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing, synapse and recombination occur.
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the meiome ), however, there are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g. selective usage of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome and translational controls determine the broad restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a round of DNA replication, creating from the maternal and paternal versions of each chromosome ( homologs ) two exact copies, sister chromatids, attached at the centromere region.
In the beginning of meiosis the maternal and paternal homologs pair to each other.
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous recombination leading to crossovers of DNA between the maternal and paternal versions of the chromosome.
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of each pair of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
Then the fibers pull the recombined homologs to opposite poles of the cell.
As the chromosomes move away from the center the कोशिका divides into two daughter cells, each containing a haploid number of chromosomes composed of two chromatids.
After the recombined maternal and paternal homologs have separated into the two daughter cells, a second round of cell division occurs.
There meiosis ends as the two sister chromatids making up each homolog are separated and move into one of the four resulting gamete cells.
Upon fertilization, for example when a sperm enters an egg cell, two gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse.
The gamete from the mother and the gamete from the father each contribute one half of the नियत of chromosomes that make up the new offspring 's genome.
Meiosis uses many of the वही mechanisms as mitosis, a type of cell division used by eukaryotes like plants and animals to split one cell into two identical daughter cells.
In all plants and in many protists meiosis results in the formation of spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively बगैर undergoing fertilization.
Boxing ( pugilism, prize fighting, the मीठी विज्ञान or in यूनानी pygmachia ) is a martial art and combat sport in which two people engage in a contest of strength, speed, reflexes, endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands.
Amateur boxing is an Olympic and Commonwealth sport and is a common fixture in most of the major international games - it also has its own World Championships.
Boxing is पर्यवेक्षित by a रेफरी over a series of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds.
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a referee, is disqualified for breaking a rule, resigns by throwing in a तौलिया, or is pronounced the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest.
The birth hour of boxing as a sport may be its acceptance by the ancient Greeks as an Olympic game as early as 688 BC.
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights, largely in Great Britain, to the forerunner of modern boxing in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States.
In 2004, ESPN ranked boxing as the सबसे difficult sport in the world.
Agreement or concord happens when a word changes form depending on the other words to which it relates.
It is an instance of inflection, and usually involves making the मान of कुछ व्याकरणिक category ( such as gender or person ) `` agree '' between different words or parts of the sentence.
For example, in मानक अंग्रेज़ी, one may say I am or he is, but not `` I is '' or `` he am ''.
This is because the grammar of the भाषा requires that the verb and its subject agree in person.
The pronouns I and he are पहला और तीसरा person respectively, as are the verb forms am and is.
The verb form must be selected so that it has the same person as the subject.
The agreement based on overt grammatical categories as above is formal अनुबंध, in contrast to notional agreement, which is based on meaning.
For instance, the phrase The United States is treated as singular for purposes of agreement, even though it is formally plural.
इस is a सूची of स्थान नीचे औसत समुद्र स्तर कि हैं on जमीन.
Places in tunnels, mines, basements, खोदा छेद ( भी साथ खोलें आसमान ), under water, under ice, or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide etc. are not included.
All figures are in meters नीचे sea level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22, 1948 in Yakima, Washington ) is a best-selling अमरीकी लेखक of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women 's fiction.
Over 140 million copies of her किताबे are in print throughout the world, and four have become made-for-TV-movies.
Macomber was the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill Award for romance in 2005 and has been awarded both a Romance लेखक of America RITA and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of America.
Catonsville is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Baltimore County, Maryland, United States.
The population was 41,567 at the 2010 census.
The community lies to the west of Baltimore along the city 's border.
Catonsville is the home of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County ( UMBC ), a public research विश्वविद्यालयों साथ over 12,000 students.
A lawyer, according to Black 's Law Dictionary, is `` a person learned in the law ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law. ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign government of a society to correct wrongs, maintain the stability of political and social authority, and deliver justice.
working as a वकील involves the व्यावहारिक अनुप्रयोग of अमूर्त विधिक theories और ज्ञान to solve विशिष्ट individualized समस्याएं, or to अग्रिम the रूचि of those जो retain ( i.e., hire ) वकील to perform विधिक सेवाएं.
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal jurisdictions, and so it can be treated here in only the most general terms.
Vector Marketing is the domestic sales arm of cutco निगम, an Olean, New York based cutlery manufacturer.
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a United States federal law requiring covered employers to provide employees job-protected and unpaid leave for qualified medical and family reasons.
Qualified medical and family reasons include : personal or family illness, family military leave, pregnancy, adoption, or the foster care अवस्थिति of a child.
The FMLA is administered by the Wage and Hour Division of the United States विभाग of Labor.
The bill was a major part of President Bill Clinton 's agenda in उसके first term.
President Clinton signed the bill into law on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C. sec. 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and it took effect on August 5, 1993, six months later.
The FMLA थी intended `` to संतुलन the demands of the workplace with the needs of families. ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period to attend to the serious health condition of the employee, parent, spouse or child, or for pregnancy or care of a newborn child, or for adoption or foster care of a child.
In order to be eligible for FMLA leave, an employee must have been at the business at least 12 months, and worked at तनिक 1,250 घंटों over the पास्ट 12 महीने, और कार्य at a location where the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles.
The FMLA covers both public- और private-sector employees, but certain categories of employees are excluded, including elected officials and their personal staff members.
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era military conflict that occurred in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia from 1 November 1955 to the पतन of Saigon on 30 April 1975.
This war followed the First Indochina War and was fought between North Vietnam, supported by its communist allies, and the government of South वियतनाम, समर्थित by the United States and other anti-communist countries.
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front, or NLF ), a lightly armed South Vietnamese communist common front directed by the North, largely fought a guerrilla war against anti-communist forces in the region.
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) engaged in a more conventional war, at times committing large units into battle.
u.S. और दक्षिण वियतनामी शक्तियां relied on एयर बड़प्पन और overwhelming firepower to conduct ढूंढें और नष्ट परिचालन, involving मैदान शक्तियां, तोपखाने, और airstrikes.
The U.S. government viewed involvement in the युद्ध as a रास्ता to prevent a communist takeover of South Vietnam as part of their wider strategy of containment.
the उत्तर वियतनामी सरकारी और viet cong यहूद लड़ to reunify वियतनाम अंतर्गत कम्युनिस्ट rule.
वे viewed the विरोध as a औपनिवेशिक युद्ध, लड़ा initially विरूद्ध फ़्रांस, समर्थित by the u.S., और बाद विरूद्ध दक्षिण वियतनाम, जिससे it regarded as a u.S. कठपुतली राज्य.
अमरीकी सैन्य advisors arrived in कया थी तब फ्रेंच इंडोचायना शुरूआत in 1950.
U.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s, with troop levels tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units were deployed beginning in 1965.
परिचालन spanned अंतरराष्ट्रीय borders, with Laos and Cambodia heavily bombed.
American involvement in the war peaked in 1968, at the time of the Tet Offensive.
After this, U.S. ground forces were gradually withdrawn as part of a policy known as vietnamization.
Despite the Paris Peace Accords, signed by all parties in January 1973, fighting continued.
U.S. military involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a result of the Case–Church amendment passed by the U.S. Congress.
The capture of Saigon by the Vietnam People 's Army in April 1975 marked the end of the war, and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year.
The war exacted a huge human cost in terms of fatalities ( see Vietnam War casualties ).
Estimates of the number of Vietnamese soldiers and civilians killed vary from 800,000 to 3.1 लाख.
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians, 20,000–200,000 Laotians, and 58,220 U.S. सेवा members also died in the conflict.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the International Space Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or crust, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash and gases to escape इससे the मैग्मा कक्ष below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are usually not created where दो tectonic plates slide past one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the East African Rift, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
This प्रकार of volcanism falls under the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism दूर इससे plate boundaries has also been explained as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can pose many hazards, not only in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those साथ जेट इंजन where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic famines.
A deep pothole on New York City 's Second Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and known in parts of the Western United States as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the surface of a roadway where a portion of the road material has टूटा दूर, leaving a hole.
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC, also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney cancer that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule, the very small tubes in the kidney that transport GF ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the most common type of kidney cancer in वयस्कों, responsible for approximately 80 % of cases.
It is also known to be the most lethal of all the genitourinary tumors.
आरंभिक उपचार is most commonly a radical or partial nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year survival rate is 60-70 %, but this is lowered considerably जहाँ metastases have spread.
It is relatively resistant to radiation therapy and chemotherapy, although some cases respond to immunotherapy.
Targeted cancer therapies ऐसे as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, और sorafenib have improved the आउटलुक लिये rcc.
Estée Lauder Companies, Inc. is a manufacturer and marketer of प्रतिष्ठा skincare, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.
The company has its headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, New यॉर्क City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it covers most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and some invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is composed of a layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective ऊतक.
The peritoneum both supports the abdominal organs and serves as a conduit for their blood and lymph vessels and nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal muscles, diaphragm and pelvic floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity, but wrapped in peritoneum ).
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal cavity that are located behind the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the kidneys ), and those structures below the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
Modern 2.5 '' SSD used in consumer लैपटॉप और desktop computers.
DDR SDRAM आधारित SSD.
Max और.
PCI attached IO त्वरक SSD
PCI-E, DRAM, और नन्द based SSD.
It uses an external power supply to make the DRAM non-volatile.
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state disk or electronic disk, though it contains no actual `` disk '' of कोई दयालु ) is a आंकड़ा storage device using integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently.
SSD technology uses electronic interfaces compatible with traditional block input/output ( I/O ) hard disk drives.
SSDs have no moving mechanical components, which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such as hard disk drives ( HDDs ) or floppy disks, which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads.
Compared with electromechanical डिस्क, ssds हैं typically कम susceptible to physical shock, much quieter, have lower access time, and less latency.
However, while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in 2012, SSDs are still about 7 to 8 times more expensive per unit of भंडार than HDDs.
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for hard disk drives, thus permitting simple replacement in common applications.
, most SSDs use NAND-based flash memory, which retains data without power.
For applications requiring fast access, but not necessarily data persistence after power loss, SSDs may be constructed इससे random-access memory ( RAM ).
Such devices may employ separate power sources, such as बैटरी, to maintain data after power loss.
Hybrid drives or solid state hybrid drives ( SSHD ) combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.
These devices may offer near-SSD performance for many अनुप्रयोग.
Salmon roe ( left ) and sturgeon caviar ( right ) served साथ mother of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
ossetra caviar, salmon creme fraiche, potato shallot croquette, basil oil, egg whites and yolks
Caviar, according to the खाना और Agriculture Organization, is a product made from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family.
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, with pasteurization reducing its culinary and economic value.
traditionally the पद caviar refers तभी to roe इससे जंगली sturgeon in the कैस्पियन और ब्लैक समंदर ( बेलुगा, ossetra और sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the country, caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other fish ऐसे as सामन, steelhead, trout, lumpfish, whitefish, and other species of sturgeon.
caviar is माना a लक्ज़री कोमलता और is खाया as a गार्निश or a स्प्रेड.
In 2012, caviar sold for $ 2,500 per pound, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo.
The SEC Network is a television syndication network featuring live broadcasts of college football and basketball events from the southeastern सम्मेलन.
It is owned and operated by ESPN Plus and is shown in more than 50 percent of households in the United States, mostly Southeastern United States markets.
The SEC Network typically airs in the noon eastern slot that was former home to the Raycom Sports SEC game of the week.
Games are shown locally on broadcast stations, regional sports networks, as well as on ESPN GamePlan, ईएसपीएन Full Court, and ESPN3.com.
The SEC Network is also available in Canada via अटलांटा 's WPCH-TV.
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen graphics currently used by ESPN on ABC, a version of ESPN 's graphics package.
सेक संजाल 's फ़ुटबॉल प्रोग्रामिंग स्टिल उपयोग a शीर्षक सुरक्षित क्षेत्रफल क्युकी सबसे of इसके affiliates do नहीं letterbox उनके मानक परिभाषा फ़ीड्स, जबकि ईएसपीएन 's टेलीविज़न संजाल have अनुमत उनके ग्राफिक्स to लापरवाही the शीर्षक सुरक्षित, लकिन letterbox लिये sd दर्शक.
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball season, SEC Network 's graphics have been converted to a 16:9 widescreen-only format.
This is also being used for the 2013 Basketball season, but had still adapted the former 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012 SEC football season.
The 1990s, pronounced and also known as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the Nineties '' or `` the '90s '', was a decade that began on जनवरी 1, 1990, and ended on December 31, 1999.
It was the 10th और last decade of the 20th century and the 100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium.
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade and the expansion and व्यावसायीकरण of the Internet during the second half of the decade.
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity, though many parts of the so-called Third World faced various समस्याएं सहित genocide, AIDS and new or continuing ethnic tensions and civil wars.
Culturally speaking the decade was characterized by the rise of multiculturalism and alternative media.
Movements such as grunge, the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to young people during the decade, aided by then-new technology such as cable television and the Internet.
A combination of factors, including the mass mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism, the beginning of the widespread proliferation of new media such as the Internet, and the dissolution of the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world, and within countries.
Income inequality among countries in the world rose sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s, before levelling off and then falling after 2000.
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa, the Balkans and the Caucasus, the former two which led to the Rwandan genocide and Bosnian genocide, respectively.
The United States began its current military occupation of the Middle East during the summer of 1990 with Desert Shield after it cut off a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply.
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab world remained elusive, though the Irish Troubles came to a standstill in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence.
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a species of canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America, Eurasia, and North Africa.
It is the largest member of its family, with males averaging, and females.
It is similar in general appearance and proportions to a German shepherd, or sled dog, but has a larger head, narrower chest, longer legs, straighter tail and bigger paws.
Its शीत फर is long और bushy, and predominantly a mottled gray in colour, although nearly pure white, red, or brown to black also occur.
Within the genus Canis, the gray wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins ( the coyote and golden jackal ), as demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to hunting large prey, its more gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior.
It is a social animal, travelling in nuclear families consisting of a mated pair, accompanied by the pair 's adult offspring.
The gray wolf is typically an apex predator throughout its range, with only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it.
It feeds primarily on large ungulates, though it also eats smaller पशु, पशुधन, carrion, and garbage.
The gray wolf is one of the world 's most well researched animals, with probably more किताबे लिखा परिचय it than any other wildlife species.
It has a long history of association with humans, having been despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock, while conversely being respected by कुछ देशी अमरीकी tribes.
It is the sole ancestor of the dog, which was first domesticated in the Middle East.
हालांकि the भय of भेड़ियों is प्रचलित in अनेक इंसान समाजों, the बहुमत of अंकित हमले on लोगों have महरूम attributed to पशु कष्ट इससे rabies.
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed people, mainly children, but this is unusual, as wolves are relatively few, live away from people, and have महरूम सिखाया to भय इंसानो by hunters and shepherds.
Hunting and trapping has reduced the प्रजाति ' दायरा to, though its still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global level, and is therefore classified by the IUCN as Least Concern.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization, characterised by an निरंकुश form of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, had been destabilized through a series of सिविल युद्धों.
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire, including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific augustus to octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented स्थिरता and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It reached its greatest expanse during the शासनकाल of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors aurelian और diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th century, during which time a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century, the eastern half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law, and forms of government in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, और by अर्थात् of यूरोपीय expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the United States is mainly provided by the public sector, with control और funding coming from three levels : local, state, and federal, in that order.
चाइल्ड शिक्षा is अनिवार्य, और वहीँ हैं भी a विशाल क्रमांक और चौड़ी किस्में of उच्चतर शिक्षा संस्थानों throughout the देश कि एक can चुनें to attend, दोनो सरेआम और privately administered.
पब्लिक शिक्षा is universally उपलब्धियाँ.
School curricula, funding, teaching, employment, and other policies are set through locally elected school boards with jurisdiction over school districts with many directives from state legislatures.
School districts are usually separate from other local jurisdictions, with independent officials और budgets.
Educational standards and standardized testing decisions are usually made by state governments.
The ages for अनिवार्य education vary by state.
It begins from ages five to eight and ends from ages fourteen to eighteen.
Compulsory education requirements can generally be satisfied by educating children in public schools, state-certified private schools, or an approved home school program.
In most public and private schools, education is divided into three levels : elementary स्कूल, middle school ( sometimes called junior high school ), and high school ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ).
In almost all schools at these levels, children are divided by age groups into grades, ranging from kindergarten ( followed by first grade ) for the youngest children in elementary school, up to twelfth grade, the final year of high school.
The exact आयु दायरा of विद्यार्थी in these grade levels varies slightly from area to area.
Post-secondary education, better known as `` college `` in the United States, is generally governed separately from the elementary and high school प्रणाली, और is described in a separate section below.
Government समर्थित, फ़्री पब्लिक schools for all started being established after the revolution, and expanded in the 19th century, as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington.
By 1870, all states had free elementary स्कूलों, albeit only in urban centers.
As the 20th century drew nearer, states started passing laws to make schooling compulsory, and by 1910, 72 percent of children attended school.
Private schools continued to स्प्रेड during this time, as well as colleges and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges.
The साल of 1910 also saw the first true high schools.
During the rest of the 20th century, educational प्रयत्न केन्द्रित on reducing the inequality of the schooling system.
The landmark Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education बना the desegregation of elementary और ऊँची स्कूलों a national priority, while the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college.
Special education was made into federal विधि in 1975.
The elementary और द्वितीयक शिक्षा अधिनियम of 1965 made standardized testing a requirement, and in 1983, a commission was established to evaluate their results and propose a course of action.
The resulting No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 was controversial and इसके goals proved to be unrealistic.
A commission established in 2006 evaluated higher education, but its recommendations have yet to be fully implemented.
Paul Bragg ( February 6, 1895 – December 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, was a पायोनियर in america’s तंदुरुस्ती movement.
Health spending per capita, in $ US PPP-adjusted, with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations.
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health care systems before Canada reformed its system in the 1960s और 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada, on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita spending for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; कनाडा खर्च 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed by सरकारी, बनाम 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the u.S. on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी 23 % उच्चतर than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have come to अलग conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S., but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health, the distribution of health, the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of service for individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The WHO 's study methods were criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` मुश्किल research issues '' facing international comparisons.
The sound source has now broken through the sound speed barrier, and is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of sound, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is moving faster ( with a speed ) than the sound waves it creates, it दरअसल leads the advancing wavefront.
the ध्वनि सोर्स होगा pass by a stationary निरीक्षक ( साथ a गति ) पहले the निरीक्षक दरअसल hears the ध्वनि it creates.
as a परिणाम, an observer in front of the source will detect
और an निरीक्षक पीछे the सोर्स.
A sonic boom produced by an aircraft moving at M=2.92, calculated from the cone angle of 20 degrees.
An observer hears the boom when the shock wave, on the edges of the cone, crosses his or her location.
Mach कोन angle
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock waves created by an object traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound.
Sonic booms generate विशाल amounts of sound energy, sounding much like an explosion.
The crack of a supersonic गोली गुजर overhead is an example of a sonic boom in miniature.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk show hosted by jay लीनो कि initially aired from May 25, 1992 to May 29, 2009, and resumed production on March 1, 2010.
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made its debut on May 25, 1992, three days following Johnny Carson 's retirement as host of the program.
The program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank, California, और is broadcast Monday through Friday at 11:35 PM in the Eastern and Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ).
Unlike Carson or his predecessor Jack Paar, Leno only once utilized a guest host, preferring to host the series by himself.
On April 26, 1999, the show began broadcasting in 1080i HDTV, becoming the first American nightly talk show to be shot in high definition.
The show is shot in 16:9 पहलू ratio.
The series, which followed the same basic format as that of उसके predecessors ( an opening monologue followed by comedy routines, interviews and performances ), ran until May 29, 2009, after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
NBC signed Leno to a new deal for a nightly talk show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
The primetime series, titled The Jay Leno Show, debuted on September 14, 2009, following a similar format to the Leno incarnation of Tonight.
Neither O'Brien 's version of the कार्यक्रम, which premiered June 1, 2009, nor The Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected.
The network decided to move a condensed 30-minute version of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time slot, and O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later.
This decision met with विपक्ष इससे o'brien, whose stint on The Tonight Show ended January 22, 2010, after which he began his own talk show on TBS.
the tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second and current incarnation, the sixth of the franchise, on March 1, 2010.
RFID chip next to a grain of राइस.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in consumer उत्पाद, and implanted in pets, for identification purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data, for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically stored सूचना.
कुछ टैग हैं संचालित और पढ़ा at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक प्रेरण ).
Others use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM field, and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
बैटरी powered tags may operate at hundreds of meters.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be within line of sight of the reader, and may be embedded in the tracked object.
rfid टैग are used in many industries.
An RFID tag attached to an ऑटोमोबाइल during production can be used to track its progress through the assembly line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and pets may have tags injected, allowing positive पहचान of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the possibility of reading personally-linked information बगैर सहमति रै उठाया privacy concerns.
Id, ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus defined in Sigmund Freud 's structural model of the psyche ; they are the three theoretical constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described.
According to this model of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the critical and moralizing role ; and the ego is the organized, realistic part that mediates between the desires of the id and the super-ego.
The super-ego can stop you from doing certain things that your id may want you to do.
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus, the id, ego and super-ego are functions of the mind rather than parts of the brain and do not correspond one-to-one with actual somatic structures of the kind dealt साथ by neuroscience.
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` आर्थिक मॉडल '' और `` topographical model '' ) was first discussed in his 1920 essay `` Beyond the Pleasure Principle `` and was formalized and elaborated upon three years later in his `` The Ego and the Id ``.
फ्रायड 's प्रस्ताव थी बहकावे by the ambiguity of the पद `` बेहोश `` और इसके अनेक conflicting uses.
Air Force rotc emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the संयुक्त राज्य एयर Force, the other two being the United States Air Force Academy ( USAFA ) and Air Force Officer Training School ( OTS ).
A subordinate कमांड of the एयर विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the Air Education and Training Command ( AETC ), AFROTC is aligned under the Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB, Alabama.
The Holm Center, formerly known as the Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools ( AFOATS ), retains direct responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS.
AFROTC is the largest and oldest source of commissioned officers for the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC 's stated mission is to produce quality leaders for the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses with 984 additional institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town agreements that allow their विद्यार्थी to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university.
According to AFOATS HQ, in 2006, AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF Second Lieutenants, with AFROTC नामांकन ranging इससे 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, and around 13,000 enrolled today.
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called `` detachments, '' and are typically headed by an active duty USAF officer in the rank of colonel or lieutenant colonel who functions as both the Detachment Commander for USAF purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community.
Most कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों होगा designate the afrotc detachment as the विभाग of aerospace अध्ययन.
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors of Aerospace Studies ( APAS ), सब क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारियों in the ranks of major or captain.
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide military administrative support and are often augmented by one to two civilian staff support employees of the academic institution.
Within AFROTC detachments, the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) हैं organized into wings, groups, squadrons, and flights, mirroring the USAF functional wing structure.
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into दो विभाजन : the सामान्य सैन्य कोर्स ( GMC ) consisting of the first two years of training, and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of training.
The AFROTC program is also divided into two training functions : the Academic Classroom Program ( Aerospace Studies classes ) and Cadet Activities ( i.e., Leadership Laboratory, Physical Training, and other training ).
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term used in the pulp and paper industry and also for fabric industry to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric, paper or paperboard.
The पद `` घनत्व '' is not used in its traditional sense of mass per unit volume.
`` Paper density '', rather, is a measure of the area घनत्व.
पेपर उत्पाद कि let छोटी or no लाइट pass through ( e.g. पोस्टर फलक ) हैं माना dense or heavy.
Paper products that allow some light to pass through ( e.g. tissue paper ) are considered lightweight.
in the गूदा और paper industry, it is common to set a commercial paper machine to produce paper to a target paper density.
Paper density can also be used to distinguish paper from paperboard as the latter usually has a grammage greater than 134 g/m2.
Two ways of expressing paper density are commonly used:
Expressed in grams per square मीटर ( g/m2 ), paper density is also known as grammage.
This is the माप used in most parts of the world.
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as weight ) per number of sheets, it is known as basis weight.
The convention used in the United States and a few other countries using US paper sizes is pounds of a ream of 500 ( or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a given ( raw, still uncut ) basis size.
Japanese paper is expressed as the weight in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19, 1986 ) is an American basketball player for the WNBA 's Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC ekaterinburg of Russia.
She is the younger sister of NBA player Anthony Parker.
She attended the University of Tennessee and was drafted by the Sparks in 2008.
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA tournament game and the first woman to dunk twice in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on March 19, 2006.
She also became only the second player to dunk in a WNBA game on June 22, 2008.
A versatile player, she is mainly a forward, but was listed on टेनेसी 's roster as a forward, center, and guard.
She was a starter on the Lady Vols basketball team, winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships.
Parker won the 2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice award as the favorite female athlete in the sports श्रेणी.
And she was a guest star on Figure It Out.
a खाना मार्गदर्शिका पिरामिड is a पिरामिड तराशा मार्गदर्शिका of स्वस्थ भोजन विभाजित into भाग to दिखाएँ the अनुशंसित सेवन लिये प्रत्येक खाना समूह.
The first food pyramid was published in Sweden in 1974.
The most widely known food pyramid was introduced by the United States Department of Agriculture in the year 1992, was updated in 2005, and then replaced in 2011.
over 25 अन्य देशों और संगठनों have भी प्रकाशित खाना पिरामिडों.
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; प्रायः referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; April 2, 1805August 4, 1875 ) was a Danish author and poet.
Although a prolific writer of plays, travelogues, novels, and poems, Andersen is best remembered for his fairy tales, a literary genre he so mastered that he himself has become as mythical as the किस्से he wrote.
Andersen 's लोकप्रियता is not limited to children ; his stories—called, or `` fantastic tales '' —express themes that transcend age and nationality.
During उसके आजीवन he was acclaimed for having delighted children worldwide and was feted by royalty.
Andersen 's fairy tales, which have been translated into more than 125 languages, have become culturally embedded in the West 's collective consciousness, readily accessible to children, but पेश lessons of पुण्य और resilience in the फेस of adversity for mature readers as well.
They have inspired motion तस्वीरें, plays, ballets, and animated films.
Two figures locking eyes in Caravaggio 's The Fortune Teller
Eye contact occurs when `` two लोगों dekh at प्रत्येक अन्य 's eyes at the same time. ''
In human beings, eye contact is a form of nonverbal communication and is thought to have a large influence on social behavior.
Coined in the early to mid-1960s, the term has come in the West to प्रायः define the act as a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication.
The customs and significance of eye contact vary widely between cultures, with religious and social differences often altering its meaning greatly.
The study of eye contact is sometimes known as oculesics.
Bed bugs are parasitic insects of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood.
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which Cimex lectularius, the common bed bug, is the best known as it prefers to feed on human blood although other Cimex species are specialized to अन्य पशु, e.g., bat bugs, C. pipistrelli ( Europe ), C. pilosellus ( western US ), and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ).
The name of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : warm houses and especially nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas.
Bed bugs are mainly active at night, but are not exclusively nocturnal.
वे usually feed on their hosts without being noticed.
A number of adverse health effects may result from bed bug bites, including skin rashes, psychological effects, and allergic symptoms.
Diagnosis involves both finding bed bugs and the occurrence of संगत symptoms.
bed बग have महरूम ज्ञात as इंसान परजीवी लिये हज़ारों of सालो.
At a point in the early 1940s, they were mostly eradicated in the developed world, but have increased in prevalence since 1995.
Because infestation of human habitats has been on the increase, bed bug bites and related conditions have been on the rise as well.
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, preceding ezekiel, यिर्मयाह and the Book of the Twelve.
( The order of the subsequent books differs somewhat in the Christian Old Testament ).
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God, while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel and a new creation in God 's glorious future kingdom ; this section includes the Songs of the Suffering Servant, four separate passages referring to the स्वदेश of इसराईल, interpreted by ईसाइयों as prefiguring the coming of यीशु Christ.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the किताब to यशायाह बेटे of amoz, लकिन अभी विद्वानों widely agree that the book is the work of three different authors - few scholars deny this view, and those that do, do so for theological reasons.
The first, termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ), contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second, Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century BCE author writing near the end of the Babylonian captivity ; and the third, the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ), was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from exile, probably by multiple authors.
Oregon राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों ( osu ) is a coeducational, पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in corvallis, ऑरेगॉन, संयुक्त राज्य.
The university offers undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees and a multitude of शोध opportunities.
There are more than 200 academic degree programs offered through the university.
OSU 's programs in microbiology, nuclear engineering, ecology, forestry, public health, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs.
The OSU 's liberal arts programs have also grown significantly and the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution.
More than 200,000 people have attended OSU since its founding.
The Carnegie Foundation classifies Oregon State University as part of its top tier of research institutions.
As of 2008, OSU is one of only seventy-three land-grant universities.
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant and sun-grant institution, making it one of only two US institutions to retain all four designations and the only public university to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ).
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon University System, OSU receives more funding for research, annually, than all other public higher education institutions in Oregon combined.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be different phenomena in some research publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals, which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or species of small, air-breathing land snail, a स्थलीय pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the परिवार Succineidae, the amber snails.
The common name of the amber snails is based on the shell, which is translucent and when empty usually resembles amber in color.
इस प्रजाति is endemic to the संयुक्त राज्य, specifically the राज्य of एरिज़ोना और यूटा, जहाँ it थी पहला एकत्रित in the जल्दी 20th सदी.
It has been listed as endangered on the United States Fish and Wildlife Service list of endangered प्रजाति चूंकि 8 अगस्त 1991.
This snail lives in wetlands, springs, and seeps, and only two of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes, a meadow near Kanab, Utah, and Vasey 's Paradise, a spring along the Colorado River within ग्रैंड Canyon National Park.
In its natural habitat it is rather polyphagous, feeding mainly on bacteria, plants and fungi, and reproduces during the summer.
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species due to a series of factors ( including influence ), the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs above the historic high water level along the Colorado River.
The Spanish language is the second most used language in the United States.
There are more Spanish speakers in the United States than there are speakers of Chinese, French, German, Italian, Hawaiian, and the Native American languages combined.
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, Spanish is the primary language spoken at home by almost 37 million people aged five or older, a figure more than double that of 1990.
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language, as well as six million Spanish language students, composing the largest national Spanish-speaking community बाहर of मैक्सिको and making Spanish the Romance language and the Indo-European language with largest number of native speakers in the world.
Roughly half of all U.S. Spanish speakers also speak English `` very well, '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of Spanish colonists in areas that would later become the states of Florida, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, and California and of the Spanish explorers - who explored areas of 42 states-.
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery of territory ), बाद the French and Indian War.
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century, the Spanish language was later reinforced by the acquisition of Puerto Rico in 1898 and by later waves of the Hispanic emigration, basically from Hispanic America, to the United States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today.
is a लैटिन शब्द कि means `` thus '' or, in writing, `` it was thus in the source material ''.
Sic may also refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a commune in रोमानिया
SIC, the क्षेत्रीय code for Sicily
sic ( रव कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a कनाडाई रव कलाकार
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band इससे torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by अमरीकी बैंड Slipknot on the album Slipknot
sic, the आरंभिक of मार्को simoncelli.
SIC as an acronym may stand for:
SiC, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting material, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification, a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying उद्योग
International Standard औद्योगिक Classification a UN system for economic activities
शेटलैंड Islands Council
the Swiss Interbank clearing system
San Isidro क्लबों, an Argentine rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee, a committee dedicated to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema Interconectado Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade independente de Comunicação ( SIC ), a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City, New Jersey, a coastal town in the संयुक्त States
Segmented Integer Counter mode, a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय Circuit, a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International Circuit, a motor racing venue in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional computer, a काल्पनिक computer used in systems programming
sic ( बेटे idées couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by फ्रेंच लेखक पियरे albert-birot
Southeastern Illinois कॉलेज, a two year Junior College in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric निरंतर
St Ignatius ' College, Riverview, a Jesuit school in Sydney, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=Five smiling young girls in various poses wearing white smocks over thigh-length पोशाक of समान रंग to उनके hair.
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga and anime series features a cast of characters designed by Mia Ikumi.
The series takes place in Tokyo, Japan, where five adolescent girls, called Mew Mews, are infused with the DNA of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take over the Earth.
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series, Tokyo Mew Mew a la Mode, which introduces a new Mew Mew and a new threat.
The Mew Mews are led by the main character, Ichigo Momomiya, जिनकी first task is to gather the other four Mew Mews : Mint Aizawa, Lettuce Midorikawa, Pudding Fong, and Zakuro Fujiwara.
As the series progresses, Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya Aoyama to becoming his गर्लफ्रेंड while trying to hide her secret double life from him.
The series antagonists include three aliens, Kish, Pie, and Tart, and their leader, Deep Blue.
Originally from Earth, the aliens were forced to leave long ago due to घातक पर्यावरणीय changes.
They have returned to kill the humans, who they feel are destroying their planet, and reclaim the planet.
In a la Mode, middle school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew Mew and, in the absence of Ichigo, the temporary leader of the Mew Mews.
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists, the Saint Rose Crusaders, a group of human teenagers with various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia.
Led by Duke, they make several attempts to मार बेरी, eventually turning the local populace against the Mew Mews.
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew was a story called Tokyo Black Cat Girl that featured a cat-girl battling एलियन आक्रमणकारियों.
After the story was transitioned to a अधिक upbeat स्टोरी of five female superheroes, the character designs were redone to have a lighter, more colorful feel.
The main series characters were praised for होने a पूर्ण fit for the overall story, as well as for their cute appearances.
The characters introduced in a la Mode यहूद भी praised लिये उनके visual appearances, but criticized as being repeats of the original series.
The character Duke was also criticized लिये having a डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the white supremacy group, the Ku Klux Klan.
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below ) and limestones ( above ), वर्जिन Formation, southwestern Utah, USA
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water.
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or सशुल्क अणु ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution.
अणु कि form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment.
Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering और अपरदन in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation.
the sedimentary चट्टान कवर of the महाद्वीपों of the धरती 's क्रस्ट is extensive, लकिन the कुल योगदान of sedimentary रॉक्स is अनुमानित to be तभी 8 % of the कुल volume of the crust.
Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting मुख्यतः of igneous और metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary rocks are deposited in layers as strata, forming a structure called bedding.
The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering, for example in the construction of roads, houses, tunnels, canals or other constructions.
Sedimentary rocks are also important sources of natural resources like coal, fossil fuels, drinking water or ores.
The study of the अनुक्रम of sedimentary चट्टान strata is the प्रमुख source for scientific knowledge about the Earth 's history, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the history of life.
The scientific discipline that studies the properties and origin of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology.
Sedimentology is both part of geology and physical geography and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the Earth sciences, such as pedology, geomorphology, भूरसायन or संरचनात्मक भूविज्ञान.
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones, some of which fuse together into a longitudinal axis, the axial skeleton, to which the appendicular skeleton is attached.
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 March c. 460 or c. 492 ) was a Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland.
Known as the `` Apostle of Ireland '', he is the primary patron संत of the island along with Saints Brigid and Columba.
Two authentic letters from him survive, from which come the तभी generally accepted details of his life.
When he was about 16, he was captured from his home and taken as a slave to Ireland, where he lived for six years before escaping and returning to his family.
After becoming a cleric, he returned to northern and western आयरलैंड as an ordained bishop, but little is known about the places where he worked.
By the seventh century, he had already come to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland.
Most available details of his life are from subsequent hagiographies, and these are now not accepted बगैर विस्तृत criticism.
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in आयरलैंड in 432, ministered in Ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
The text, however, distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( thought to mean Palladius ) and `` पैट्रिक, archapostle of the Scots, '' who died in 492.
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but, on a widespread निर्वचन, he was active as a missionary in Ireland during the second half of the 5th century.
He is generally credited with being the first bishop of Armagh, Primate of All Ireland.
Saint Patrick 's Day is observed on कूच 17, the date of his death.
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland, as both a religious and, especially outside आयरलैंड, secular holiday.
In the dioceses of Ireland, it is both a solemnity and a holy day of obligation ; outside Ireland, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
Line segments in the सुनहरी ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a and shorter side b, when placed adjacent to a square with sides of length a, will produce a similar सुनहरी आयताकार with longer side a + b and shorter side a.
This illustrates the relationship.
in गणित और the कला, दो quantities हैं in the सुनहरी अनुपात if the अनुपात of the योग of the quantities to the larger मात्रा is बराबर to the अनुपात of the larger मात्रा to the छोटी एक.
The figure on the right illustrates the geometric relationship.
Expressed algebraically:
where the Greek अक्षर फाई ( ) represents the golden ratio.
इसके value is:
The golden ratio is also called the golden section ( Latin : sectio aurea ) or golden mean.
Other names include extreme and mean ratio, medial section, divine proportion, divine section ( Latin : sectio divina ), golden proportion, golden cut, and golden number.
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to सन्निकट the golden ratio—especially in the form of the golden rectangle, in which the ratio of the longer side to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ).
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio, including its appearance in the dimensions of a regular pentagon and in a golden rectangle, which can be cut into a square and a smaller rectangle with the same aspect ratio.
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze the proportions of natural objects as well as man-made systems such as financial markets, in some cases based on dubious fits to data.
North Myrtle Beach is a coastal resort city in Horry County, South Carolina, United States.
it थी निर्मित in 1968 इससे चार मौजूदा municipalities उत्तर of myrtle बीच, और serves as एक of the प्राथमिक पर्यटक कस्बों साथ the ग्रैंड strand.
The population was 13,752 at the 2010 census.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It was predominantly called the संसार War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when austria-hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the युद्ध as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of कामयाब offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The युद्ध ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such विरोध.
The यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार युद्ध ii.
Camden is a city in Camden County, नई जर्सी, संयुक्त States.
It is the county seat, located across the Delaware River from Philadelphia.
As of the 2010 United States Census the city had a total population of 77,344, representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) from the 79,904 residents enumerated during the 2000 Census, which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census.
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous नगरपालिका in the state in 2010 after having been ranked 10th in 2000.
Camden was originally incorporated as a नगर on February 13, 1828, from portions of the now-defunct Newton Township, while the area was still part of Gloucester County.
on कूच 13, 1844, camden became भाग of the newly formed camden काउंटी.
हालांकि एकबार a thriving बीच लिये निर्माण और उद्योग, camden is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये इसके struggles साथ शहरी dysfunction.
Three Camden mayors have been jailed for corruption, the most recent being Milton Milan in 2000.
Since 2005 the स्कूल प्रणाली और पुलिस विभाग have महरूम संचालित by the राज्य of नई जर्सी ; the कब्ज़ा समाप्त in 2012.
In 2008, Camden had the highest crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 people while the national औसत थी 455 प्रति 100,000.
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 school year and two-thirds of the students graduate.
Two out of every five residents are below the national poverty line.
Amitriptyline ( tryptomer, elavil, tryptizol, laroxyl, Saroten, Sarotex, Lentizol, Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the most widely used TCA and has at least equal efficacy against depression as the newer class of SSRIs according to a study from early 2001.
As well as reducing depressive symptoms, these types of tricyclics also ease migraines, tension headaches, anxiety attacks and कुछ schizophrenic symptoms.
It is also known to reduce aggression and हिंसक behavior.
A computer is a general purpose device कि can be प्रोग्रामित to carry out a finite set of arithmetic or logical operations.
Since a अनुक्रम of operations can be readily changed, the computer can solve more than one kind of problem.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at least one processing element, typically a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण unit ( CPU ) and some form of memory.
The processing element carries out गणित और logic operations, and a sequencing and control unit that can change the order of operations based on stored information.
Peripheral devices allow information to be retrieved from an external source, and the result of operations saved and retrieved.
The first electronic digital computers were developed between 1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States.
Originally they were the size of a large room, consuming as much शक्ति as several hundred modern personal computers ( PCs ).
In this era mechanical analog computers were used for military applications.
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to billions of times more capable than the जल्दी machines, and occupy a fraction of the space.
Simple computers are small enough to fit into mobile devices, and mobile computers can be powered by small batteries.
Personal computers in their various forms are icons of the Information Age and are what सबसे लोगों think of as “computers.”
However, the अंतःस्थापित कंप्यूटर मिला in अनेक डिवाइस इससे mp3 खिलाड़ी to सेनानी वायुयान और इससे खिलौने to औद्योगिक robots हैं the सबसे numerous.
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the controversial idea that women should not work outside the home and should have अनेक children दौरान उनके reproductive years.
It has अनेक अन्य meanings as well.
It is a figure of speech.
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' was संभवतः पहला प्रयुक्त sometime before 1950.
An article from 1949 states, `` By early 1949, TWA was—in the शब्द of its new president, Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Its usage may date as जल्दी as the 1910s.
An article published in 1958 states the phrase was पहला प्रयुक्त by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier.
`` Some forty years ago, Dr. Hertzler advanced a hypothesis which young women of today seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a woman happy, ' he said, 'is to keep her barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place and unincorporated जातियाँ within Ocean Township, in Monmouth County, New Jersey, United States.
As of the 2010 United States Census, the CDP 's population was 3,995.
University of Phoenix Stadium, opened August 1, 2006, is a multipurpose football stadium located in Glendale, Arizona.
It is the home of the Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League ( NFL ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl.
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com Arena and it सुविधाएँ the first fully retractable natural grass playing surface built in the United States on top of an AirField Systems drainage system.
An opening on एक पक्ष of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the exterior of the building, allowing the entire natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl xlii, और the 2011 BCS National Championship Game, a game that it hosts every four years, which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11, 2011.
It will again host Super Bowl XLIX in 2015.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of फीनिक्स acquired the नामकरण अधिकारों in सितंबर 2006, shortly बाद the स्टेडियम था खोली अंतर्गत the नाम कार्डिनल्स स्टेडियम.
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is applied as a corporate प्रायोजक, and not as the home stadium of the University ( which has no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The stadium has also hosted the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इवेंट रेसलमेनिया XXVI with 72,219 fans in attendance.
The event was held in the स्टेडियम on March 28th 2010.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as Lawrence Joshua Chamberlain, was an American college professor from the State of Maine, who volunteered during the American Civil War to join the Union Army.
Although having no earlier education in military strategies, he became a highly respected and decorated Union officer, reaching the rank of brigadier general ( and brevet major general ).
For his gallantry at gettysburg, he was awarded the Medal of Honor.
He was given the honor of commanding the Union troops at the surrender ceremony for the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox, Virginia.
बाद the युद्ध, he डाला राजनीती as a रिपब्लिकन और परोसा चार one-year शर्तें of दफ्तर as the 32nd राज्यपाल of maine.
He served on the faculty, and as president, of his अल्मा mater, Bowdoin College.
An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length segment of a game in any of a variety of sports – most notably cricket and baseball during which one team attempts to score while the other team attempts to prevent the पहला from scoring.
In cricket, the term innings is both singular and plural and is always spelled and pronounced with the terminal `` s ''.
In baseball and softball, the singular form is inning and तभी the plural takes an `` s ''.
In many other sports, the length of the game is dictated by a clock and teams swap offensive and defensive roles dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item.
in बेसबॉल और क्रिकेट, however, एक टोली, कहा to be `` बल्लेबाजी '', कोशिशें to स्कोर `` रनों '' —see चलाएं ( बेसबॉल ) और चलाएं ( क्रिकेट ) —while the अन्य टोली, कहा to be `` क्षेत्ररक्षण '', कोशिशें to prevent the स्कोरिंग of रनों और मिलेंगी सदस्यों of the batting team out.
The teams switch places after the fielding team has succeeded in getting a fixed number of players out, making a clock unnecessary.
In cricket, the term innings is also used to refer to the play of one particular player ( Smith had a poor innings, scoring तभी 12 ).
By extension, this term can be used in British English for almost any activity which takes a period of time ( The Liberal government had a good innings, but finally lost office in 1972, or You 've had a fair innings, now it 's my turn, meaning `` तुम have बोला लिये long पर्याप्त, अभी let me speak '' ).
It is also प्रयुक्त in reference to someone who has died at a reasonably old age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah, well.
John was 89.
At least he had a good पारी ).
The baseball-derived parallel to this in American English is the term at bat.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the term innings has been used in reference to cricket since at least 1735.
As cricket was a वयस्क, अत्यधिक व्यवस्थित sport in the 1600s in England, the term 's origin could well precede this first recorded usage.
The word inning meaning 'a gathering in ' is first recorded in 1522, and could be related.
Adenosine deaminase deficiency, also called ADA कमियां or ada-scid, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in कम than one in 100,000 live births worldwide.
It accounts for about 15 % of all cases of कठोर combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ).
It is very rare, you have a 3 % chance of getting this gene.
ADA deficiency may be present in infancy, childhood, adolescense, or adulthood.
आयु of onset और गंभीरता is सम्बन्धित to कुछ 29 ज्ञात genotypes संबद्ध साथ the disorder.
An example of शहरी गरीबी in this slum in Jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the state of one who lacks a certain amount of material possessions or money.
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the deprivation of basic human needs, which commonly includes food, water, sanitation, clothing, shelter, health care and education.
सापेक्ष गरीबी is defined contextually as economic inequality in the location or society in which people live.
For much of history, poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional modes of production were insufficient to give an entire population a comfortable standard of living.
After the industrial revolution, mass production in factories made wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
Of more importance is the modernization of agriculture, such as fertilizers, in order to provide पर्याप्त उपज to feed the population.
The supply of basic needs can be restricted by constraints on सरकारी सेवाएं ऐसे as corruption, tax avoidance, debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals.
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs more affordable typically include welfare, आर्थिक freedoms, and providing financial services.
गरीबी कटौती is a प्रमुख लक्ष्य और समस्या लिये अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और the संसार बैंको.
The World Bank estimated 1.29 billion people were living in absolute poverty in 2008.
of ये, परिचय 400 लाख लोगों in निरपेक्ष गरीबी जिया in इण्डिया और 173 लाख people in China.
In USA 1 in 5 children lives in poverty.
In terms of प्रतिशत of regional populations, sub-Saharan Africa at 47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute poverty in 2008.
Between 1990 and 2010, about 663 लाख लोगों स्थानांतरित above the absolute poverty level.
Still, extreme poverty is a global challenge ; it is observed in all parts of the world, सहित the developed economies.
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to harmful effects इससे ingestion of toxic substances present in a mushroom.
These symptoms can vary इससे slight gastrointestinal discomfort to death.
The toxins present are secondary metabolites produced in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
Mushroom poisoning is usually the result of ingestion of wild mushrooms after misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an edible species.
The most common reason for this misidentification is close प्रतिरूप in शर्तें of रंग and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species.
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon rare occasion poisoned by eating toxic species, despite being well aware of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent mushroom poisoning, mushroom gatherers need to be very familiar with the mushrooms they intend to collect as well as with any similar-looking toxic species.
In addition, edibility of mushrooms may निर्भर on methods of preparation for cooking.
Collectors also need to be well aware that edibility or toxicity of some species varies with geographic location.
इंसान ऊँचाई is the अलहदा इससे the नीचे of the फीट to the शीर्ष of the सिर in a इंसान देह, खड़ा वीर्यपात.
When populations share जेनेटिक पृष्ठभूमि and environmental factors, average height is frequently characteristic within the group.
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation इससे average ) within such a population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities.
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during childhood or adolescence may account for delayed growth and/or ( in severe cases ) marked reductions in adult stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first humans, Americans Neil Armstrong और बज़ Aldrin, on the Moon on July 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the first to step onto the lunar surface 6 घंटों बाद on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Armstrong spent about two and a half hours outside the spacecraft, Aldrin slightly less ; and together they collected of lunar material for वापसी to Earth.
A third member of the mission, Michael Collins, piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit until Armstrong and Aldrin returned to it just under a दिन later for the trip back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center in Merritt Island, Florida on July 16, Apollo 11 was the पांचवां मानवयुक्त mission of NASA 's Apollo program.
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin for the three astronauts which was the only part which landed back on Earth ; a Service Module which supported the कमांड मोड्यूल साथ नोदन, electrical power, oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon.
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage, the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it and travelled for three days जबतक वे entered into lunar orbit.
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved into the Lunar Module and landed in the Sea of tranquility.
They ठहरे a total of about 21 and a half hours on the lunar surface.
After lifting off in the upper part of the Lunar Module and rejoining कॉलिन्स in the Command Module, they returned to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24.
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience, Armstrong stepped onto the lunar surface and described the event as `` one small कदम लिये [ a ] man, one giant leap for mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race and fulfilled a नेशनल लक्ष्य प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in a speech before the United States Congress, `` before this decade is out, of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth. ''
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( फीफा ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was नहीं आयोजित because of the Second World War.
The current champions हैं स्पेन, who won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग नेशनल टीमों.
Brazil have won five times, and they are the only team to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next तीन संसार Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by Raphael Lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction, in whole or in part, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group.
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such : killing members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group ; deliberately inflicting on the groups conditions of life, calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. ''
skulls of victims of the Rwandan Genocide
The प्रस्तावना to the cppcg नहीं तभी states that `` genocide is a crime under international law, contrary to the spirit and aims of the United Nations and condemned by the civilized world '', but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity ''.
Determining what historical events constitute a genocide and which are merely criminal or inhuman behavior is not a clear-cut matter.
In nearly every case where accusations of genocide have circulated, partisans of various पहलू have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event, often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts.
An accusation of genocide is certainly not taken lightly and will almost always be controversial.
The following list of genocides and alleged genocides should be understood in this context and can not be regarded as the final word on these subjects.
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical drive belt and the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt, a लचीली बेल्ट साथ दांत moulded onto इसके भीतरी सतह
Timing belt ( camshaft ), a toothed belt used to drive the camshaft ( s ) within an internal दहन engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a Western culture, but is also influenced by Native American, African, Asian, Polynesian, and Latin American cultures.
अमरीकी culture started its formation over 10,000 years ago with the migration of Paleo-Indians from Asia into the region that is today the continental United States.
It has its own unique सोशल and cultural characteristics such as dialect, music, arts, social habits, cuisine, and folklore.
The United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a result of large-scale immigration from many different countries throughout its history.
Its chief early European influences came from English, स्कॉटिश, वेल्श and Irish settlers of colonial America during British rule.
British culture, due to colonial ties with Britain that spread the English language, legal system and other cultural inheritances, had a formative influence.
Other important influences came from other parts of western Europe, especially जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, और इटली.
असली तत्व also play a strong role, such as the invention of Jeffersonian democracy.
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps the first influential domestic cultural critique by an American and a reactionary piece to the prevailing European consensus that America 's domestic मौलिकता थी विकृत.
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically, such as national holidays, uniquely American sports, military tradition, and innovations in the arts and entertainment दे a दमदार sense of national pride among the population as a whole.
अमरीकी संस्कृति शामिल दोनो रूढ़िवादी और उदार तत्व, वैज्ञानिक और धार्मिक प्रतिस्पर्धात्मकता, राजनैतिक structures, रिस्क लेने और फ़्री अभिव्यक्ति, भौतिकवादी और moral तत्व.
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g. individualism, egalitarianism, and faith in freedom and democracy ), American culture has a किस्में of expressions due to its geographical scale and demographic diversity.
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some researchers to categorize American culture as a mythic identity ; others see it as American exceptionalism.
It also includes elements that evolved from Indigenous Americans, and other ethnic cultures—most prominently the culture of African Americans, cultures from Latin America, and Asian American cultures.
Many American cultural elements, especially from popular culture, have spread across the globe through modern mass media.
The United States has often been thought of as a melting pot, but beginning in the late 1990s and early 2000s, it trends towards cultural diversity, pluralism and the image of a salad bowl instead.
Due to the extent of American culture, there are many integrated but unique social subcultures within the United States.
The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, political orientation and a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background, occupation and ethnic group membership.
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the language of the Samoan Islands, comprising the independent country of Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa.
it is an आधिकारिक language—alongside अंग्रेज़ी —in दोनो jurisdictions.
Samoan, a Polynesian language, is the first language for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000.
With many Samoan people living in other countries, the total number of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000.
The language is notable for the phonological differences between formal and informal speech as well as a ceremonial form used in Samoan oratory.
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in which glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward to determine how quickly it is साफ इससे the रक्त.
the परीक्षण is प्रायः used to test for diabetes, insulin resistance, and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly, or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the most commonly performed version of the test, an oral glucose सहिष्णुता परीक्षण ( ogtt ), a standard dose of glucose is ingested by mouth and blood levels are checked two hours later.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for various purposes, with different standard doses of glucose, different routes of administration, different intervals and durations of sampling, and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
`` What About Me '' is a song written by Garry Frost and Frances Swan, first recorded by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence.
It was the band 's पहला number-one single in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the top ; there, it was the second-highest selling single of 1982.
the कामयाबी of the सोंग led उन्हें to अमेरिका जहाँ it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट.
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a long time that it managed to make Billboards top 100 Pop Singles of 1983, at # 88, a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position.
The song made an unusual comeback in 1989, peaking at # 46.
On the left a chicken egg, the egg most commonly eaten by इंसानो, and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different species, including birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish, and have been eaten by mankind for thousands of years.
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell, albumen ( अंडा white ), and vitellus ( egg yolk ), contained within various thin membranes.
Popular choices for egg consumption are chicken, duck, quail, roe, and caviar, but the egg most often consumed by इंसानो is the मुर्गा egg, by a wide margin.
Egg yolks and whole eggs store significant amounts of protein and choline, and हैं widely used in cookery.
Due to their protein content, the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) categorizes eggs as Meats within the खाना मार्गदर्शिका Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional value of eggs, there are some potential health issues arising from egg quality, storage, and individual allergies.
Chickens and other egg-laying creatures are widely kept throughout the world, and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry.
In 2009, an estimated 62.1 million metric tons of eggs were produced worldwide from a total laying flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens.
There are issues of regional variation in demand and expectation, as well as current debates concerning methods of mass production, with the European Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens.
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer league representing the sport 's highest level in the United States and Canada.
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation ( U.S. Soccer ), the league is रचित of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada.
सीज़न presently run from March to December, with each team playing 34 games in the regular season.
टेन टीमों compete in the postseason mls कप playoffs culminating in the चैंपियनशिप खेल, the mls कप.
Major League Soccer was founded in 1993 as part of the United States ' bid to मेजबान the 1994 FIFA World Cup.
The first season took place in 1996 beginning with ten teams.
Instead of operating as an association of independently owned teams, MLS is a सिंगल एंटिटी जहाँ each team is owned and controlled by the league 's investors.
the लीग 's बंद सदस्यता makes it एक of the संसार 's few सॉकर लीग नहीं using प्रमोशन और relegation.
The legality of कैनबिस varies from country to country.
Possession of कैनबिस is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of कैनबिस, particularly in North America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively विधिक in the नीदरलैंड्स, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for federal law, which governs persons in all states.
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries, including Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis और replaced उन्हें साथ a नियामक शासन, भी contrary to संघीय statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, apart from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation, use, possession or ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis, making it punishable by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment कार्यक्रम लिये यंग or frequent users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There are also changes in a more प्रतिबंधक दिशा as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many countries and have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical अभिव्यक्ति धमक EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly और inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a गणितीय product allowed by cardiac imaging.
As a गणितीय पद, Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance इमेजिंग और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively allowed clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south राज्य highway in the U.S. state of California, largely in the Mojave Desert.
The southern portion of the highway is signed as the Antelope Valley फ्रीवे.
The route connects Interstate 5, or Golden State Freeway, near Santa Clarita and with U.S. Route 395 near Inyokern.
Legislatively, the route extends south of I-5 to State Route 1 in the Pacific Palisades area of Los Angeles, however the portion south of the junction with I-5 has not महरूम constructed.
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the communities of Santa Clarita, Palmdale and Lancaster with the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area.
The northern portion, from Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to Route 395, is legislatively named the Aerospace Highway, as the highway serves Edwards Air Force Base, once one of the प्राथमिक landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle.
This section is rural, following the line between the hot Mojave मरुस्थल and the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range.
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad, used for the Antelope Valley Line of the metrolink commuter रेल प्रणाली as well as a connection between Los Angeles and the California Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass.
Linked with US 395, this road connects Los Angeles with such places as Mammoth Mountain, Mono Lake, Yosemite National Park and Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 was भाग of u.S. रूट 6 prior to truncation in 1964, when U.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown, Massachusetts.
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from Silver महारानी सड़क उत्तर of Rosamond to Mojave is known as Sierra Highway, as is the old routing between Interstate 5 and Silver Queen Road where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment.
Portions of Route 14 remain signed with names associated with US 6, including Midland Trail, Theodore Roosevelt राजमार्ग और ग्रैंड फौज of the Republic Highway.
This रूट is भाग of the California Freeway and Expressway System.
Blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors.
विभिन्न तराजू have been developed to describe the extent of vision loss and define blindness.
Total दृष्टिहीनता is the complete lack of form and visual light perception and is clinically recorded as NLP, an abbreviation for `` no light perception. ''
Blindness is frequently used to describe severe visual impairment साथ दृष्टि.
Those described as having only light perception have no more sight than the ability to tell light from dark and the general direction of a light source.
To determine which people may need special assistance because of their विज़ुअल disabilities, various governmental jurisdictions have formulated more complex definitions referred to as legal blindness.
In North America and most of Europe, legal blindness is defined as visual acuity ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible.
This means that a legally blind individual would have to stand from an ऑब्जेक्ट to देखिए it—with corrective lenses —with the same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from.
In many areas, people with average acuity who nonetheless have a visual field of less than 20 degrees ( the norm being 180 degrees ) हैं भी classified as being legally blind.
Approximately ten percent of those deemed legally blind, by any measure, have no vision.
The rest have some vision, from लाइट बोध alone to relatively good acuity.
Low vision is sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases, Injuries and Causes of Death, low vision is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), लकिन बराबर to or बेहतर than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or corresponding visual field loss to less than 20 degrees, in the better eye with best possible correction.
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or corresponding visual फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 10 डिग्री, in the better eye with best possible correction.
Blind people with undamaged eyes may still register light non-visually for the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle.
Light signals for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and are not affected by optic nerve damage परे जहाँ the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl Simmons ( born December 18, 1970 ), better known by his stage names DMX and Dark Man X, is an American rapper and actor.
In 1999, DMX released his best-selling album... And Then There थी x, जिससे featured the hit single `` Party Up ( Up in Here ) ``.
He has acted in films such as Belly, Romeo Must Die, Exit Wounds, Cradle 2 The Grave, and Last Hour.
In 2006, he starred in the reality television series, जिससे was primarily aired on the BET cable television network.
in 2003, DMX published a book of his memoirs entitled, E.A.R.L. : The Autobiography of DMX.
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards his album Undisputed ( 2012 ).
DMX has sold over 30 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling hip-hop artists of all time.
Professional certification, trade certification, or professional designation, often called simply certification or qualification, is a designation earned by a person to assure योग्यता to perform a job or task.
Not all certifications that use post-nominal letters are an acknowledgement of educational achievement, or an agency appointed to safeguard the public interest.
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character, best remembered for his starring roles in the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies series of theatrical short films उत्पादित by warner भाईs. during the Golden age of American animation.
His popularity during this era led to his becoming a corporate mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or rabbit who is famous for his flippant, personality, a pronounced New York एक्सेंट, उसके portrayal as a trickster, and his catch phrase `` Eh...
कया 's up, doc ? ''
( प्रायः कहा while chewing a carrot ).
Bugs has appeared in अधिक films than कोई अन्य कार्टून अक्षर और is the नवीं सबसे portrayed फिल्मी व्यक्तित्व in the संसार.
According to his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs Bunny : 50 Years and Only One Grey Hare, Bugs was born on July 27, 1940 in Brooklyn, New York in a वारेन अंतर्गत ebbets फ़ील्ड, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
In reality, he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) : सहित टेक्स एवेरी, जो निर्देशित बग ' जल्दी निर्णायक छोटी a जंगली हरे ( 1940 ) ; Robert McKimson, who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc, who originated the voice of Bugs.
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) are linings of mostly endodermal origin, covered in epithelium, which are involved in absorption and secretion.
They लकीर कैविटी that are exposed to the external environment and internal organs.
They are at several places संलग्न साथ स्किन : at the nostrils, the lips of the mouth, the eyelids, the ears, the genital area, and the anus.
The sticky, thick fluid secreted by the mucous membranes and glands is termed mucus.
The term mucous membrane refers to where they are मिला in the body and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans penis ( head of the penis ), along with the inside of the foreskin and the clitoral hood, are mucous membranes.
The urethra is also a mucous झिल्ली.
The secreted mucus traps the pathogens in the body, preventing कोई further activities of diseases.
A master sergeant is the military rank for a senior non-commissioned officer in some armed forces.
Cake is a form of bread or bread-like food.
In its modern forms, it is typically a sweet baked dessert.
In its oldest forms, cakes were normally fried breads or cheesecakes, and normally had a disk shape.
Determining whether a given food should be classified as bread, cake, or pastry can be मुश्किल.
Modern cake, especially layer cakes, normally contain a combination of flour, sugar, eggs, and butter or oil, with some varieties also requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, dried or candied fruit, or extracts are often added, and numerous substitutions for the primary ingredients are possible.
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or मिठाई sauces ( जैसे पेस्ट्री मलाई ), आइस्ड साथ buttercream or other icings, and decorated with marzipan, piped borders or candied fruit.
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions, विशेषकर विवाह, वर्षगांठ, and birthdays.
There are countless केक व्यंजनों ; कुछ हैं bread-like, कुछ समृद्ध और विस्तृत, और अनेक हैं सदियां बूढ़ा.
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ), baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur cook may bake a cake.
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) was an American Christian singer, evangelist, entrepreneur, लेखक, बात दिखाएँ host, and television personality.
She was शादीशुदा from 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, and later convicted felon, Jim Bakker.
वो co-hosted with him on The PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ).
वो थी a भागीदार in the 2004 season of the reality show The Surreal Life.
Cambria is a village in Columbia County, विस्कॉन्सिन, United States.
The population was 767 at the 2010 census.
It is part of the मैडिसन Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Public policy is the principled guide to action taken by the administrative executive branches of the state with regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs.
In सामान्य, the न्यास is the pertinent नेशनल और substantial संवैधानिक विधि और implementing विधान ऐसे as the us संघीय कोड.
Further substrates include both judicial interpretations and regulations which are generally authorized by legislation.
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action, regulatory measures, laws, and funding priorities concerning a given topic promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives. ''
पब्लिक नीति is commonly embodied `` in constitutions, legislative acts, and judicial decisions. ''
In the United States, this concept refers not only to the परिणाम of नीतियों, but more broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions.
As an academic discipline, public policy is studied by professors and students at public policy schools of major universities throughout the country.
The U.S. professional association of पब्लिक policy practitioners, researchers, scholars, and students is the Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management.
Digestion is the mechanical and chemical breakdown of food into smaller components that are more easily absorbed into a blood stream, for instance.
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a breakdown of large food molecules to smaller ones.
When food enters the mouth, digestion of the food starts by the action of mastication, a form of mechanical digestion, and the wetting contact of saliva.
Saliva, a liquid secreted by the salivary ग्रंथियों, contains salivary amylase, an enzyme which starts the digestion of starch in the food.
After undergoing mastication and starch digestion, the food will be in the form of a small, round slurry mass called a bolus.
It will then travel down the esophagus and into the stomach by the action of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the stomach starts protein digestion.
gastric juice mainly contains hydrochloric acid and pepsin.
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall, mucus is secreted by the stomach, providing a slimy layer that acts as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals.
At the same time protein digestion is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, which are waves of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall.
This allows the mass of food to further mix with the digestive enzymes.
After some time ( typically an hour or two in humans, 4–6 hours in dogs, somewhat shorter duration in house cats ), the resulting thick liquid is called chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes with digestive enzymes from the pancreas, and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues.
When the chyme is fully digested, it is absorbed into the blood.
95 % of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine.
Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon ( large intestine ) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some vitamins, such as biotin and vitamin K ( K2MK7 ) produced by bacteria in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon.
बर्बाद सामग्री is eliminated इससे the मलाशय दौरान शौच.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death.
He was lord, and later king, of Ireland, as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
हेनरी was the second monarch of the Tudor dynasty, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his छह विवाह, Henry VIII is known for his role in the separation of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a आस्तिक in core Catholic theological teachings, even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy रोमन Emperor, Maximillian I, and invaded France in 1513 with a large, well-equipped army, but achieved little at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, लिये his part, used the English invasion to his own ends, and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession for Henry, who invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the महत्वपूर्ण नगर of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles V, supported Henry only as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, educated and संपन्नता किंग, and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he also engaged खुद as an लेखक and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became रुग्ण मोटे and his health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in उसके बाद जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are an Afro-Cuban percussion instrument.
The drums are of different size : the larger drum is पुकारा in Spanish the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the macho ( male ).
They are membranophones, or instruments that create ध्वनि by a स्पंदन of a stretched membrane.
Different religious groups include different books in their Biblical canons, in varying orders, and sometimes divide or combine books, or incorporate additional material into canonical books.
Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six books of the Protestant canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon.
The Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four books divided into three parts ; the five books of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the Nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ), and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
The first part of Christian Bibles is the Old Testament, which contains, at minimum, the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine books and ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible.
The Catholic Church and Eastern ईसाई चर्च भी hold certain deuterocanonical books and passages to be part of the Old Testament canon.
The second part is the New वसीयत, containing twenty-seven books ; the four Canonical gospels, Acts of the Apostles, twenty-one Epistles or letters and the Book of Revelation.
The Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have नाबालिग मतभेद in their lists of accepted books.
The list given here for these churches is the most inclusive : if at least one Eastern church accepts the book it is included here.
The national ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका, प्रायः बस referred to as the अमरीकी ध्वज, consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '', `` Old Glory ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford,, also known as the Dred Scott Decision, was a लैंडमार्क निर्णय by the U.S. Supreme Court.
It made दो main rulings.
The first ruling was that African-Americans were not citizens, and therefore had no standing to sue in federal court.
The second ruling was that the federal government था no शक्ति to regulate slavery in any territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the United States.
Given the first ruling, most scholars and many contemporary political figures ( including the leadership of the then-new रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ) considered that the second ruling was not binding precedent, but mere dictum.
The rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional ruling implied that people of African descent ( both slave and free ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens.
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, दोनो rulings हैं superseded and no longer valid precedent.
Nonetheless, the case retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst decision ever made by the Supreme Court.
The opinion of the court, written by Chief इंसाफ Roger B. Taney, stirred debate.
The decision was 7–2, और प्रत्येक इंसाफ besides Taney wrote a separate concurrence or dissent.
For the first time since Marbury v. Madison, the Court held an Act of Congress to be unconstitutional.
Dred Scott, an African-American slave, had asked a United States Circuit Court to award him his freedom because he and his master had resided in a state ( Illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned.
Chief Justice Roger Taney, लिखने for the court, held that Scott, as a person of African ancestry, was not a citizen of the United States and therefore had no right to sue in federal court.
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the time, particularly Free states, where free blacks did in fact enjoy the rights of citizens, such as the right to vote and hold public office.
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum, the Court went on to hold that Congress had no authority to prohibit slavery in federal territories because slaves are personal property and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution protects property स्वामी विरूद्ध पिछडे of their property without due process of law.
In reaching this decision, Taney had hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the United राज्य, but it had the opposite effect.
The decision was fiercely debated across the country, as perhaps best exemplified by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham Lincoln, the second-ever Republican nominee for President, was able to win the presidential election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank.
The decision played an important role in the timing of state secession and the सिविल युद्ध, although it is extreme to say the decision `` caused '' the war.
The decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political landscape : it is credited with launching Abraham Lincoln’s national political career and ultimately allowing for his election.
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case, the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least one part of it had already been overruled by the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868, which begins by stating, `` All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. ''
To which the Court noted:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is, that it puts at rest both the questions which we stated to have been the subject of differences of राय.
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United States without regard to their citizenship of a particular State, and it overturns the Dred Scott decision by making all व्यक्तियों born भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States.
वहीँ हैं dozens of neighborhoods in Columbus, Ohio.
Some are hard to define, as they encompass large क्षेत्रों विकसित at different times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them.
Borders can also change based on popular understanding of the area, as well as the whims of the residents.
This article uses data from the Datasourcecolumbus Web site, Spotcrime.com, HelloColumbus.com, as खूब as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas.
Excerpts and border सूचना are drawn directly from the main articles.
a जीवविज्ञानी is a वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन जीना जीवों और उनके संबंध to उनके पर्यावरण.
Biologists involved in basic research attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms work.
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve medical, industrial or agricultural processes.
Martinus Willem beijerinck, a botanist and microbiologist
Base jumping from a cliff in a wingsuit.
BASE jumping, also sometimes written as B.A.S.E. jumping, is an activity where participants jump from फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ और उपयोग a parachute to break their fall.
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for four categories of fixed objects from which one can jump : buildings, antennas, spans ( bridges ), and earth ( cliffs ).
The British Shorthair is a domesticated cat whose features मेक it a popular breed in cat shows.
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's Governing परिषद of the बिल्ली फैंसी ( GCCF ) since 2001, when it overtook the Persian breed.
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team, commonly known as the United States men 's national basketball team, represents the United States of America in अंतरराष्ट्रीय men 's basketball.
The USA is the most successful team in international competition, winning medals in all seventeen Olympic tournaments it has entered, coming away साथ fourteen golds.
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 team, which featured six Hall of Famers ( 4 players, 2 coaches ), and the 1992 `` Dream Team '', featuring 14 Hall of Famers ( 11 players, 3 coaches ).
The United States is currently ranked first in the fiba World Rankings.
Traditionally composed of amateur players, a 1989 rule change by FIBA allowed USA Basketball to field teams with professional players.
The first such team, known as the `` Dream Team '', won the gold medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, playing in the final against Croatia.
With the परिचय of professionals, the team was able to spark a second run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988.
A team of professional players competed at the 1994 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप, finishing first.
In 1996, 2000, 2008, and 2012 the USA again captured gold medals.
Facing increased competition, the USA failed to win a medal at the 2002 FIBA World Championship, finishing sixth.
The 2004 Summer Olympic team खोया तीन खेल on इसके रास्ता to a कांस्य पदक, a record that represented more losses in a single year than the country 's Olympic teams had suffered in all previous Olympiads combined.
Determined to put an end to these failures, USA Basketball initiated a long-term project aimed at creating better, more cohesive teams.
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in Japan before losing against Greece in the semi-finals, ending the competition with the bronze medal.
The USA won gold two years later, though, at the 2008 Summer Olympics with a dominant performance.
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship, where despite fielding a roster featuring no players from the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली, the यूएसए किया नहीं खोना a सिंगल खेल en route to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal.
The USA continued this streak of dominance by going undefeated and capturing gold once more at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
The Steelers Super Bowl XL ring
जो theismann 's सुपर कटोरी रिंग ( सही )
The Super Bowl ring is an award in the National Football League given to the winners of the league 's annual World Championship game, the Super Bowl.
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself, the Super Bowl ring offers a collectible memento for the actual players and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory.
Image showing the six most common speleothems with labels.
to दृश्य labels.
The डायन 's उंगली in the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` dropping, trickling '' ) is a type of speleothem that rises from the floor of a limestone cave due to the dripping of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate.
This stalagmite formation occurs only under certain pH conditions within the underground cavern.
The corresponding formation on the छत of a cave is known as a stalactite.
If these formations grow together, the परिणाम is ज्ञात as a column.
The हॉल of दिग्गज in the Carlsbad Caverns
stalagmites चाहिए सामान्यतः नहीं be छुआ, चूंकि the चट्टान buildup is formed by खनिज precipitating आउट of the जल समाधान onto the बूढ़ा सतह ; स्किन oils can alter the सतह जहाँ the खनिज जल होगा चिपकी, यूँ affecting the विकास of the गठन.
Oils and dirt from human contact can also stain the formation and change its color permanently.
Similar structures can also form in lava tubes, associated साथ कुछ प्रकार of lavacicles, although the mechanism of formation is very different.
stalactites और stalagmites can also form on concrete ceilings and floors, although they form much more rapidly there than in the natural cave environment.
The largest stalagmite in the world is high and is located in the cave of Cueva Martin Infierno, Cuba.
in the ज़ाग्रोस kyu of दक्षिण इरान, लगभग इससे the प्राचीन नगर of bishapur, in the shapur गुफा on the चौथी of पाँच बरामदा स्टैंड the 3rd सदी ce प्रतिमा of shapur i, दूसरी शासक of the सासानी Empire.
the प्रतिमा, carved इससे एक stalagmite, is nearly ऊँची.
How I Met Your Mother is an अमरीकी sitcom that premiered on CBS on September 19, 2005.
The show was created by Craig Thomas and Carter Bays.
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030, when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob saget ) gathers उसके बेटी ( Lyndsy Fonseca ) and son ( David Henrie ) to tell them the story of how he met their mother.
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single, 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends from Wesleyan University, Marshall Eriksen ( Jason Segel ), a law student, and Lily Aldrin ( Alyson Hannigan ), a kindergarten teacher, who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes.
Their engagement causes Ted to think about finding his own soul mate, much to the disgust of his friend Barney Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ), a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job.
And thus, Ted begins his search for his perfect mate, and meets Robin scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders ), whom he also befriends.
The 100th episode of How i मिले Your Mother aired on January 11, 2010.
on दिसम्बर 21, 2012, the series was renewed for a ninth season.
On January 30, 2013, it was announced that Season 9 will be its final season.
Gringo (,, ) is a slang Spanish and पुर्तगाली word used in Ibero-America, to denote foreigners, often from the United States.
The term can be applied to someone who is actually a foreigner, or it can denote a दमदार संघ or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture.
In Spanish it does not have a negative connotation.
Roger Axtell, a travel etiquette expert, notes that `` [ t ] he शब्द gringo is not necessarily a bad word.
It is slang but is derogatory only in its use and कॉन्टेक्स्ट. ''
The word was used in Spain long before it crossed the Atlantic to denote foreign, non-native speakers of Spanish.
The great white shark, Carcharodon carcharias, also known as the great white, white pointer, white shark, or white death, is a species of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans.
The great white shark is मुख्यतः ज्ञात लिये इसके size, with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in length, and in weight.
This shark reaches its maturity around 15 years of age and can have a life span of over 30 years.
The great white shark is arguably the world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish, and is एक of the primary predators of marine mammals.
It is also known to prey upon a variety of other marine animals, including fish and seabirds.
It is the only known surviving species of its genus Carcharodon, and is ranked first in having the most attacks on humans.
The IUCN सूची the great white shark as a vulnerable species, while it is included in Appendix II of CITES.
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley and the subsequent blockbuster film by Steven Spielberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man भक्षक ``.
In reality, humans are not the preferred prey of the great white shark.
The United States Armed शक्तियां हैं the military forces of the United States of America.
They consist of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard.
The U.S. has a strong tradition of civilian control of the military.
The President is the military 's overall head, and helps form military policy with the U.S. Department of Defense ( DoD ), a federal executive department, acting as the principal organ by which military policy is carried out.
The DoD is headed by the Secretary of Defense, who is a civilian and Cabinet member.
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's chain of command, just below the President, and serves as the प्रिंसिपल सहायक to the President in all DoD-related matters.
To coordinate military action with diplomacy, the President has an advisory National Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor.
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint Chiefs of Staff, which includes the head of each of the Defense Department 's service शाखाओं as खूब as the chief of the National Guard Bureau.
Leadership is provided by the अध्यक्ष of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The कमांडेंट of the coast Guard is not a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
All of the branches कार्य साथ दौरान परिचालन और joint missions, under the Unified Combatant Commands, under the authority of the Secretary of Defense with the exception of the Coast Guard.
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of the Department of Homeland Security and receives its operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security.
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the विभाग of the नेवी by the President or Congress during a time of war.
All five armed services are among the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps.
From the time of its inception, the military played a decisive role in the history of the United States.
A sense of national unity and identity was forged as a result of victory in the First barbary युद्ध और the दूसरी Barbary War.
भी so, the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military force and not until the outbreak of World War II did a large standing army become officially established.
The National Security Act of 1947, adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset, created the modern U.S. military framework ; the Act मिलाया previously cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध and the Department of the Navy into the National Military Establishment ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ), headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council.
The U.S. military is one of the largest militaries in terms of number of personnel.
It draws its manpower from a large pool of paid volunteers ; although conscription has been used in the past in various times of both war and peace, it has not been used since 1972.
As of 2013, the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund its military forces, and appropriates approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations.
put साथ, the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of the world 's military expenditures.
The U.S. Armed Forces as a पूरे possess विशाल quantities of advanced and powerful equipment, along with widespread placement of forces around the world, giving them significant capabilities in both defense and power projection.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using एक 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
in अभ्यास, the सही to स्वतंत्रता of वाक is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं, as साथ मानहानि, बदनामी, obscenity, राजद्रोह ( सहित, लिये उदाहरण inciting जातीय द्वेष ), कापीराइट उल्लंघन, रहस्योद्घाटन of information that is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
आलेख 19 goes on to कह कि the कसरत of ये अधिकारों carries `` खास कर्तव्य और जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of नेशनल सुरक्षा or of पब्लिक अनुक्रम ( अनुक्रम पब्लिक ), or of पब्लिक health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense, such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त logo.
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television series created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady.
Like the name of the series itself, साथ the exception of the first episode— '' Pilot '' —episode titles of The Big Bang Theory always start with `` The '' and resemble the name of a scientific principle, theory or experiment, whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk.
, 133 episodes have aired.
The Big Bang Theory has been नवीनीकृत for a seventh season.
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced, ; October 14, 1890 – March 28, 1969 ) was the 34th President of the United States from 1953 until 1961.
He had previously महरूम a five-star सामान्य in the संयुक्त राज्य फौज दौरान संसार War II and served as Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe ; he had responsibility for planning and supervising the invasion of North Africa in Operation Torch in 1942–43 and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front.
In 1951, he became the first supreme commander of NATO.
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and was reared in a large family in Kansas by parents with a मजबूत कार्य ethic and religious background.
As one of six बेटे, he was conditioned by a competitive atmosphere which instilled self-reliance.
He attended and graduated from West Point and later married और था दो बेटे.
After World War II, आइज़नहावर परोसा as फौज मुख्य of स्टाफ अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष हैरी S. ट्रूमैन, तब assumed the पोस्ट of अध्यक्ष at कोलंबिया विश्वविद्यालयों.
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a Republican to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft and to crusade against `` Communism, कोरियाई and corruption ''.
He won by a landslide, defeating Democrat Adlai Stevenson and ending two decades of the New Deal Coalition.
In the first year of his presidency, Eisenhower deposed the leader of Iran in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear threats to conclude the Korean War with China.
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the funding for conventional military forces ; the goal was to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits.
In 1954, Eisenhower first articulated the domino theory in his description of the threat प्रस्तुत by the spread of communism.
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution, which enabled him to prevent Chinese communist aggression against Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending Taiwan.
When the Soviets launched Sputnik in 1957, he had to play catch-up in the space race.
आइज़नहावर मजबूर इसराईल, the uk, और फ़्रांस to समाप्त उनके आक्रमण of मिश्र दौरान the स्वेज संकट of 1956.
In 1958, he sent 15,000 US troops to Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western सरकारी from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution.
Near the end of his term, his efforts to set up a summit meeting with the Soviets collapsed because of the U-2 incident.
on the घरेलू सामने, he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed to the end of McCarthyism by openly invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege.
He otherwise left most political activity to his वाइस अध्यक्ष, Richard Nixon.
He was a moderate conservative who continued New Deal agencies and expanded Social Security.
Among his enduring innovations, he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ), which led to the internet, among many invaluable outputs ; the National aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ), driving peaceful discovery in space ; the establishment of strong science education via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act.
In social policy, he sent federal troops to Little Rock, Arkansas, for the first time since Reconstruction to enforce federal court orders to desegregate पब्लिक स्कूलों.
He also signed civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 to protect the right to vote.
he implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two years and made five appointments to the Supreme Court.
He was the first term-limited president in accordance with the 22nd Amendment.
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful ones for the most part and saw considerable economic prosperity except for a sharp recession in 1958–59.
आइज़नहावर is प्रायः ranked highly among the U.S. Presidents.
Air Force One is the official air traffic control call sign of a United States Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States.
In common parlance the term refers to those Air Force aircraft specifically designed, built, and used for the purpose of transporting the president.
The Presidential aircraft is a prominent symbol of the अमरीकी प्रेसिडेंसी and its power.
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the President arose in 1943, जब officials of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज एयर Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned with relying on commercial airlines to transport the President.
A C-87 मुक्तिवादी Express was reconfigured for use as a presidential transport ; however, it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record.
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential use ; this aircraft, dubbed the पवित्र गाय, transported अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to the Yalta Conference in February 1945, and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman.
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was created after a 1953 incident during which a flight carrying President Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign.
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the सृष्टि of the presidential fleet, including two Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s and 1970s, respectively ; since 1990, the presidential fleet has consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically configured, highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft.
The Air Force is looking into replacing the two VC-25 aircraft with तीन replacement aircraft beginning in 2017.
A wedding anniversary is the anniversary of the date a wedding took place.
Traditional names exist for most of them : for instance, 50 years of marriage is called a `` golden wedding anniversary '' or simply a `` golden anniversary ''.
A scanner with Duplexing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one printers, fax machines, photocopiers and scanners, an automatic document feeder or ADF is a feature which takes several pages and feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier, allowing the user to scan, and thereby copy, print, or fax, multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page.
Most copiers allow scanning on the flatbed or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a दस्तावेज़ feeder.
The vast majority of fax machines have an ADF, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines, some fax machine owners use the fax machine as a scanner, faxing multi-page documents to themselves.
Document feeders हैं वर्णित by गति, in pages per minute or ppm, and capacity, usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200.
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing automatic document feeder or RADF scans one side of a page, then flips it and scans the other side.
A duplexing automatic document feeder or DADF scans both sides in one pass.
The advantage of the dadf is तेज़ speed for two-sided originals.
RADFs and DADFs are rated in images per minute ( IPM ), the number of sides they can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational और शैक्षणिक complex located in Dallas, Texas ( USA ).
the जटिल is पंजीकृत as a डलास लैंडमार्क, नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क और is घर to नौ संग्रहालय, छह प्रदर्शन सुविधाएं, a लैगून, और the largest फेरिस व्हील in उत्तर America.
Many of the buildings on the complex were constructed for the Texas Centennial Exposition in 1936 which drew over six million visitors.
Most of the buildings built लिये the exposition still survive and it is recognized as a significant example of Art Deco architecture.
Fair Park has been designated a Great Place in America by the American Planning Association.
The American Planning Association ( APA ) “is an independent, not-for-profit educational organization that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great स्थान in American program helps to celebrate areas with “exemplary character, quality, and planning.”
Being designated as a ग्रेट Place in America, Fair Park was one of only ten cities chosen in 2011.
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in California, the tenth-largest in the U.S., and the county seat of Santa Clara County which is located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay.
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley, which is a major component of the greater San Francisco Bay Area, a region of 8.4 million people and the fifth largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States.
It is the largest city in Northern California.
San Jose was founded on नवम्बर 29, 1777, as El Pueblo de San José de Guadalupe, the first civilian town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California, which later became Alta California.
The city served as a farming community to support Spanish military installations at सैन फ्रांसिस्को और monterey.
जब कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained statehood in 1850, San Jose served as its first capital.
After more than 150 years as a small खेती नगर, सैन जोस और the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay.
San Jose experienced increased माँग for housing from soldiers and veterans returning from World War II.
San जोस then continued its aggressive expansion during the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land area.
The rapid growth of the high-technology and electronics industries further त्वरित the परिवर्तन इससे an agricultural center, to an urbanized metropolitan area.
By the 1990s, San Jose 's location within the booming local technology industry earned the city its nickname, Capital of Silicon Valley.
San Jose now maintains global city status और is the largest city in the San Francisco Bay Area in terms of population, land area, and industrial development.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported the जनसांख्यिकी of the city to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census.
As of April 2013, the estimated जनसांख्यिकी of सैन Jose was 984,000.
San Jose, along with the Santa Clara Valley, experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl, with characteristics of intense urbanization similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern California.
The city has taken definite कदम to avoid becoming `` L.A. North ''.
However, the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by measures such as population density and public transit safety, investment, and ridership.
Europe चित्रित by Antwerp cartographer Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent since it was first populated in prehistoric times to present, with the first Homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC.
The earliest settlers to Prehistoric Europe came दौरान the paleolithic era.
The arrival of agriculture around 7000 BC ushered in the पाषाणकालीन age.
Neolithic Europe lasted for 4000 years, overlapping with metal-using cultures that gradually spread throughout the continent.
Technological advances during the prehistoric age tended to arrive from the Middle East, spreading gradually to the northwest.
Some of the best-known civilizations of prehistoric Europe were Minoan and Mycenaean, which flourished during the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a छोटी काल of समय around 1200 BC.
The period known as classical antiquity began with the वृद्धि of the city-states of Ancient Greece.
Greek influence reached its zenith under the expansive empire of Alexander the Great, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern and western Europe were dominated by the La Tène culture, a precursor to the Celts.
Rome, a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC, would grow to become the Roman Republic in 509 BC and would succeed Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization.
The कार्यक्रम of the rule of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire.
The empire was बाद divided by the emperor Diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires.
During the later years of the Roman Empire, the Germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in strength and repeated attacks led to the Fall of the पश्चिमी रोमन Empire in AD 476, a date which traditionally marks the end of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages.
During the Middle Ages, the Eastern Roman Empire survived, though modern historians refer to this state as the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
In Western Europe, Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in the remnants of the पूर्व Western Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own.
Of all of the Germanic peoples, the Franks would rise to a position of आधिपत्य over पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, the Frankish Empire reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800.
Francia was divided into several parts ; West Francia would evolve into the Kingdom of France, while East Francia होता evolve into the Holy Roman Empire, a precursor to modern Germany.
The British Isles were the site of अनेक large-scale migrations.
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the period of Roman Britain, and when the Romans abandoned the British Isles दौरान the 400s, लहरें of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927.
During this period, the Kingdom of Poland and Kingdom of Hungary ( 1000–1945 ) यहूद व्यवस्थित as well.
the viking आयु, a काल of migrations of scandinavian peoples, वर्चस्व the काल इससे the लेट 700s to the मध्य 1000s.
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire of Cnut the Great, a Danish leader who would become king of England, Denmark, and Norway.
The Normans, a Viking people who settled in Northern France and founded the Duchy of Normandy, would have a significant impact on many parts of Europe, from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily.
Another Scandinavian people, the Rus ' people, would go on to found Kievan Rus ', an early state which was a precursor for the modern country of Russia.
As the Viking Age drew to a close, the period known as the Crusades, a series of religiously-motivated military expeditions originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule, began.
अनेक जेहादी states were founded in the eastern Mediterranean.
These were all short-lived.
The Crusaders would have a profound impact on many parts of Europe.
Their Sack of Constantinople in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the Byzantine Empire.
Extinct dog breeds is a compilation of dog breeds that have become extinct.
Wii Speak is a microphone accessory for Nintendo 's Wii video game console.
Connected to the console via USB, the device can be placed near the video display, allowing voice chat to be conducted with the entire room.
the यंत्र सुविधाएँ an led to indicate जब the माइक्रोफोन is क्रियाशील.
Wii बोलो थी announced at Nintendo 's 2008 E3 media briefing.
It was released separately and bundled with Animal Crossing : City Folk on November 16, 2008, in North America, and was released on December 5, 2008, in Europe.
The Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's GamePad controller.
निसान Intelligent Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and authorization system which is available as an option or standard in several cars.
It was first developed by Siemens in the mid-1990s और introduced by Mercedes-Benz under the name `` Keyless Go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17, 1997.
Univisión ( ) is a spanish-language television network in the United States.
The network is primarily dedicated for Latin American families who reside in the United States.
It has the largest दर्शक of Spanish-language television viewers in the world according to Nielsen ratings.
Randy Falco, ( CEO as of June 29, 2011 ) COO, has been in charge of the कम्पनी चूंकि the प्रस्थान of univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010.
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks, and is often a strong fifth, outranking The CW, with some fourth-place weekly placings, and as of 2012, even first place rankings for individual programs over all five English networks due to the संजाल 's सतत अनुसूची of नई telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year.
Univisión is headquartered in New York, and has its major studios, production facilities, and operations in Doral, Florida, a suburb of Miami.
In 2009, another television studio was announced, Univision Studios, to be निर्मित in doral.
Univision is उपलब्धियाँ on cable and satellite in most of the country, with local stations in over 50 markets with large Hispanic and Latino populations and a national cable network feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station.
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming in addition to network shows, and in major markets such as Los Angeles, New York, and Miami the local newscasts carried by the network 's owned-and-operated station ( O & O ) स्टेशन हैं बराबर प्रतिस्पर्धी with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ), TPG Capital, L.P., Providence Equity Partners, Madison Dearborn Partners, and Thomas H. Lee Partners for $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt.
The buyout left the company with a debt level of twelve times its annual cash flow, which was twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years.
Artist 's conception of a protoplanetary disk
The formation and of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.6 billion years ago with the gravitational collapse of a small part of a giant molecular cloud.
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre, forming the Sun, while the rest flattened into a protoplanetary disk out of which the planets, moons, asteroids, and other small Solar System bodies formed.
This widely accepted model, known as the nebular hypothesis, was first developed in the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg, Immanuel Kant, and Pierre-Simon Laplace.
Its subsequent विकास रै interwoven a variety of scientific disciplines including astronomy, physics, geology, and planetary science.
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar planets in the 1990s, the model has been both challenged and refined to account for new observations.
The Solar System has evolved considerably since its initial formation.
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around their parent planets, while other moons are thought to have formed independently and later been captured by their planets.
Still others, as the Earth 's Moon, may be the परिणाम of giant collisions.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present day and have been central to the evolution of the Solar System.
The positions of the planets often shifted, and planets have switched places.
This planetary migration is now thought to have been responsible for much of the Solar System 's early evolution.
In roughly 5 billion years, the Sun will cool and expand outward many times its current diameter ( becoming a red giant ), before casting off its outer layers as a planetary nebula and leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a white dwarf.
In the far distant future, the gravity of passing stars will gradually reduce the Sun 's retinue of planets.
Some ग्रह होगा be destroyed, others ejected into interstellar space.
ultimately, over the course of tens of billions of years, it is likely that the Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it.
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German title :, later as, and ) is a novel written by Franz Kafka in 1914 and 1915 but not प्रकाशित until 1925.
One of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, inaccessible authority, with the प्रकृति of his crime revealed to neither him nor the reader.
Like Kafka 's other novels, The Trial was never completed, although it करता शामिल a अध्याय जिससे brings the story to an end.
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist भीतर the novel, such as disparities in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration.
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his friend and literary executor Max Brod edited the text for publication by Verlag Die Schmiede.
The original manuscript is held at the Museum of Modern Literature, Marbach am Neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the book was listed in Le Mondes 100 Books of the Century and as no. 2 of the बेहतरीन जर्मनी novels of the Twentieth Century.
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11, 1968 ) is an American singer-songwriter and actress.
वो शुभारम्भ उसके करियर in 1994 साथ the सोंग, `` रहो ( i छूटी तुम ) ``, जिससे थी शामिल in the फिल्मी वास्तविकता Bites.
She was the first artist to have a number one single in the संयुक्त राज्य जबकि नहीं signed to a recording contract.
Her five studio CDs include her प्रमुख लेबल डेब्यू, the gold-selling Tails and its follow-up, the Grammy-nominated, gold-selling Firecracker.
Loeb has also worked in film, television, voice-over work and children’s recordings.
Loeb has appeared in two television series, Dweezil & Lisa, a weekly culinary adventure for the Food Network and Number 1 Single, a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on her quest for love, success, career, and family.
Her children 's music includes the albums Catch the चंद्रमा ( 2003 ), and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ).
Her first joint children 's book and album Lisa Loeb 's पगली Sing-Along : The Disappointing Pancake and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011.
In 2010 she founded the Lisa Loeb Eyewear Collection, which is based on her own designs.
the Coat of arms of the State of New Jersey includes:
A shield with three plows emblazoned, प्रतिनिधि of नई Jersey 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing नाईट 's helmet.
A horse 's head as the crest of the helmet.
The female figures Liberty and Ceres, representative of the state 's motto ( देखिए next item ).
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a `` liberty cap `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the State Motto of New Jersey, `` Liberty and Prosperity '', and the year of statehood, 1776.
It was originally designed by पियरे यूजीन du simitiere in 1777 और थी परिवर्धित थोड़ा in 1928.
The seal is the central motif in the flag of New Jersey and the Great Seal of the State of New Jersey.
The Coat of arms contains a horse 's head.
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows on a shield referring to the राज्य 's कृषि परंपरा, giving it the nickname `` Garden State ''.
The two Goddesses represent the State motto, `` Liberty and Prosperity ''.
स्वतंत्रता is on the left.
She is पकड़कर a staff with a liberty cap on it, and the word liberty underneath her.
The goddess on the right is Ceres, देवी of agriculture.
She is holding a cornucopia with prosperity लिखा below her.
According to the minutes of the New जर्सी सामान्य सभा लिये कूच 11, 1896, the तिथि in जिससे the सभा officially स्वीकृत the ध्वज as the राज्य emblem, the buff रंग is due indirectly to जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, जो था ordered on अक्तूबर 2, 1779, कि the वर्दी coats of the नई जर्सी महाद्वीपीय लकीर be अंधेरा ( जर्सी ) ब्लू, साथ buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had until then been reserved only for his own uniform and those of other Continental generals and their aides.
Then, on February 28, 1780, the Continental War Officers in Philadelphia directed that the uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the same as the background color of the regiments ' state flag.
the मुहर is वर्णित in नई जर्सी statute शीर्षक 52, §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a song by the Beatles, written by Paul McCartney and John Lennon.
It was released as a `` double A-sided `` single with `` Day Tripper ``, the first time both sides of a सिंगल were so designated in an initial release.
Both songs were recorded during the Rubber Soul सत्र.
The song is an example of Lennon–McCartney collaboration at a depth that happened only rarely after they wrote the hit singles of 1963.
इस सोंग, `` a Day in the Life ``, `` Baby, You 're a Rich Man `` and `` I 've Got a Feeling ``, are among the notable exceptions.
As a medical diagnosis, pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric disorder in persons 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a primary or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally आयु 11 सालो or younger, हालांकि specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ).
An adolescent जो is 16 years of age or older must be at least five years older than the prepubescent child before the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term has a range of definitions, as found in psychiatry, psychology, the vernacular, and law enforcement.
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of adult personality and behaviour '' in which there is a sexual preference for children of prepubertal or early pubertal age.
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years of age or older have intense and recurrent sexual urges towards and fantasies about prepubescent children that they have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty.
In popular usage, pedophilia means any sexual interest in children or the act of child sexual गाली, प्रायः termed `` pedophilic behavior ''.
For example, The American Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states, `` Pedophilia is the act or fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children. ''
This common use application also extends to the sexual interest in और यौन सम्पर्क with pubescent or post-pubescent minors.
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who commit child sexual abuse commonly प्रदर्शनी the विकार, some offenders do not meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents.
Additionally, not all pedophiles actually commit ऐसे abuse.
Pedophilia was first formally पहचाना and named in the late 19th century.
A significant amount of शोध in the area has taken place since the 1980s.
Although mostly documented in men, there are also women who exhibit the disorder, and researchers assume available estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles.
No cure for pedophilia has been developed, but वहीँ are therapies that can reduce the incidence of a person committing child sexual abuse.
In the United States, following Kansas v. Hendricks, sex offenders who are diagnosed with certain mental विकार, विशेषकर pedophilia, can be subject to indefinite civil commitment, under various state laws ( generically called SVP laws ) and the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006.
At present, the exact causes of pedophilia have not been conclusively स्थापित.
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated with several different neurological abnormalities, and प्रायः co-exists साथ other personality disorders and psychological pathologies.
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement, a variety of typologies have been suggested to categorize pedophiles according to behavior and motivations.
जूलियो césar chávez ( born जूलियो césar chávez gonzález on जुलाई 12, 1962 ) is a रिटायर्ड मैक्सिकन पेशेवर boxer.
Chávez is माना by अनेक लोगों लिये उनके खेल आंकडे the महानतम सेनानी कभी to आइये आउट of मैक्सिको.
He is a six-time world champion in three weight divisions, and for several years he was considered one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
In a career that spanned over 25 years, Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : WBC Super Featherweight in 1984, WBA Lightweight in 1987, WBC Lightweight in 1988, WBC Light Welterweight in 1989, IBF Light Welterweight in 1990, and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994.
He holds records for most successful consecutive defenses of world titles ( 27 ), most title fights ( 37 ), most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ).
Chávez भी रै the longest undefeated streak in boxing history, 13 years.
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to Frankie Randall and had an 87 fight win streak until his `` draw '' with Whitaker.
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding punching power, devastating body attack, remarkably strong chin and the relentless stalking of उसके opponents.
He ranks # 24 on ESPN 's 50 Greatest Boxers Of All समय.
On December 7, 2010, he was inducted in the prestigious International Boxing Hall of Fame लिये the Class of 2011.
He is the पिता of prospect Omar Chávez and former WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez, Jr.
`` Selektion `` on the judenrampe, Auschwitz, May/June 1944.
To be sent to the सही meant slave labor ; to the left, the gas chamber.
This image shows the arrival of Hungarian Jews from Carpatho-Ruthenia, many of them from the berehov ghetto.
The photographer was Ernst Hofmann or Bernhard Walter of the ss. Image courtesy of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( Hebrew :, HaShoah, `` catastrophe '' ; यहूदी :, churben or Hurban, from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ), was the mass murder or genocide of approximately six million Jews during World War II, a programme of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany, led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in यूरोपीय पहले the Holocaust, approximately two-thirds were killed.
over एक लाख यहूदी children यहूद मारे in the holocaust, as यहूद लगभग दो लाख यहूदी महिलाओं और तीन लाख यहूदी मेन.
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory were used to concentrate, hold, and kill Jews and other victims.
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition, and some use the common noun `` holocaust '' to describe other Nazi mass murders, including those of Soviet prisoners of war, Polish and Soviet civilians, and homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the fall of the Soviet Union indicates some ten to eleven million नागरिकों and prisoners of war were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
The persecution and genocide were carried out in चरण.
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society, most prominently the Nuremberg Laws, were enacted in Germany years before the outbreak of World War II.
Concentration camps were established in which inmates were subjected to slave labor until they died of exhaustion or disease.
Where Germany conquered new territory in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, specialized units called Einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and political opponents in mass shootings.
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos before being transported by freight train to extermination camps where, if they survived the journey, most were systematically killed in gas chambers.
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics that led to the genocides, turning the Third Reich into what one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-H in the United States is a youth organization administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture of the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ), with the mission of `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development. ''
The name represents four personal development areas of focus for the organization : head, heart, hands, and health.
The organization has over 6.5 million members in the United States, from ages five to twenty-one, in लगभग 90,000 clubs.
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship, leadership, responsibility and life skills of youth through experiential learning programs and a positive youth development approach.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history, 4-H today focuses on citizenship, healthy living, science, engineering, and technology programs.
Today, 4-H and related programs exist in over eighty देशों around the world ; the organization and administration varies from country to country.
Each of these programs operates independently, but cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges, global education programs, and communications.
The 4-H motto is `` To make the best better '', while its slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ).
The national flag of Chile, consists of two unequal horizontal bands of white and red and a blue वर्गाकार the वही ऊँचाई as the white band in the canton, which bears a white five-pointed star in the center.
It was adopted on 18 October 1817.
The Chilean flag is also known in स्पेनी as La Estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ).
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; blue symbolizes the sky and the Pacific Ocean, white is for the snow-covered Andes, and रेड स्टैंड लिये the रक्त spilled to achieve independence.
According to the epic poem La Araucana, the colors were derived from those from the flag flown by the Mapuche during the Arauco War.
`` Flag Day '' is held each year on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción.
Generation y, भी ज्ञात as the Millennial Generation, is the demographic cohort following Generation X.
वहीँ हैं no precise तिथियाँ लिये जब पीढी y starts और ends.
Commentators use beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s, or from the early 1980s to the early 2000s.
The Torches of Nero, by henryk Siemiradzki.
According to Tacitus, Nero targeted ईसाइयों as those responsible for the fire.
The Great Fire of Rome ( ) was an urban fire कि occurred beginning 19 July AD 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the Commonwealth of Virginia, is a U.S. state located in the South Atlantic region of the United States.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the `` Mother of Presidents '' after the eight U.S. presidents born there.
The geography and climate of the राष्ट्रमंडल are shaped by the Blue Ridge Mountains and the Chesapeake Bay, which provide habitat for much of its flora and fauna.
The capital of the Commonwealth is Richmond ; and Virginia Beach is the most populous नगर.
Fairfax County is the most populous political subdivision.
The wealthiest is loudoun County.
The Commonwealth 's population is over आठ million.
The area 's history begins with several indigenous groups, including the Powhatan.
In 1607 the London Company established the Colony of Virginia as the first permanent New World English colony.
Slave labor and the land acquired from displaced Native American tribes each played a significant role in the colony 's early politics and plantation economy.
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American Revolution and joined the Confederacy in the American Civil War, during which Richmond was made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to रूप the राज्य of वेस्ट Virginia.
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction, both major national parties are competitive in modern Virginia.
The Virginia General Assembly is the oldest legislature in the Western Hemisphere.
The state government रै महरूम repeatedly ranked most effective by the Pew Center on the States.
it is अद्वितीय in कैसा it ट्रीट शहरों और काउंटी बराबर, manages लोकल सड़कें, और prohibits इसके राज्यपालों इससे सेवारत लगातार शर्तें.
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in Northern Virginia, including the headquarters of the विभाग of रक्षा और सीआईए ; और सैन्य सुविधाएं in Hampton Roads, the site of the region 's main seaport.
Virginia 's public schools and many colleges and universities have contributed to growing media and technology sectors.
As a result, computer chips have become the state 's leading export.
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie Maker, codenamed Sundance ) is a freeware video editing software by Microsoft.
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the ability to create and edit videos as well as to publish them on skydrive, फेसबुक, youtube, और फ्लिकर.
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single by Tupac Shakur, and tenth track from his debut album, 2Pacalypse Now.
The song, which features R & B singer Dave Hollister, is about a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who lives in a ghetto, has a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
The song explores the issue of teen pregnancy and its effect on the young माताओं और उनके परिवारों.
Like many of Shakur 's songs, `` Brenda 's Got a baby '' draws from the दुर्दशा of the impoverished.
Using Brenda to represent young mothers in general, Shakur criticises the low level of support from the baby 's father, the government, and society in general.
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who got pregnant from her cousin and, because she did not want her parents to know about the baby, threw it in a trash can.
The official logo of Pokémon for its अंतरराष्ट्रीय रिलीज ; `` Pokémon '' is short for the original Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a media franchise published and owned by Japanese video game company निन्टेंडो और created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996.
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games developed by Game Freak, Pokémon has since become the second-most successful and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world, behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise.
Pokémon properties have since महरूम merchandised into anime, manga, trading cards, toys, books, and other media.
The franchise celebrated in 2006, and, cumulative sales of the video games ( including home console versions, such as the `` Pikachu '' निन्टेंडो 64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies.
In November 2005, 4kids entertainment, जिससे had managed the non-game related licensing of Pokémon, announced that it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement.
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company International ), a subsidiary of जापानी 's पोकीमॉन co., now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia.
The name Pokémon is the romanized contraction of the Japanese brand.
The term Pokémon, in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the release of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 ; with the upcoming releases of Pokémon X and Y, 6 new Pokémon have been प्रदर्शित in प्रचार लिये the खेल.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular and plural, as is each individual species name ; it is grammatically correct to कह `` एक पोकीमॉन '' और `` अनेक पोकीमॉन '', as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu ''.
Cover of the first edition of the प्रकाशन दादा by Tristan Tzara ; Zurich, 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism थी an art movement of the European avant-garde in the early 20th century.
Many claim Dada began in Zurich, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter but the height of New York Dada was the year before in 1915.
To quote Dona Budd 's The Language of Art Knowledge, Dada was born out of negative reaction to the horrors of संसार War I.
This international movement was begun by a group of artist and poets associated साथ the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich.
Dada rejected reason and logic, prizing nonsense, irrationality and अंतर्ज्ञान.
The origin of the name Dada is unclear ; some believe that it is a nonsensical word.
Others maintain that it originates from the Romanian artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel Janco 's frequent use of the words da, da, meaning yes, yes in the Romanian language.
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a meeting of the group when a paper knife stuck into a French-German dictionary happened to point to 'dada ', a French word for 'hobbyhorse '.
The movement primarily involved visual arts, literature, poetry, art manifestoes, art theory, theatre, and graphic design, and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works.
In addition to being anti-war, Dada was also anti- bourgeois and had political affinities with the radical left.
Dada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, and publication of art/literary journals ; passionate coverage of art, politics, and culture were topics often discussed in a variety of media.
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball, Emmy Hennings, Hans Arp, Raoul Hausmann, Hannah Höch, Johannes Baader, Tristan Tzara, Francis Picabia, Richard Huelsenbeck, Georg Grosz, John Heartfield, Marcel Duchamp, Beatrice Wood, Kurt Schwitters, and Hans Richter, among others.
The movement influenced later styles जैसे the avant-garde and downtown music movements, and groups including surrealism, Nouveau réalisme, pop art and Fluxus.
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art और ध्वनि काव्य, a starting पाइंट लिये प्रदर्शन आर्ट, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on पॉप आर्ट, a जश्न of antiart to be बाद embraced लिये anarcho-political उपयोग in the 1960s और the गति कि lay the न्यास लिये surrealism.
First trophic स्तर.
The plants in this image, and the algae and phytoplankton in the lake, are primary producers.
They take nutrients from the soil or the जल, and manufacture their own food by photosynthesis, using energy from the sun.
The trophic level of an organism is the स्थिति it occupies in a food chain.
The word trophic गर्भाशयी from the Greek τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
A food chain represents a succession of organisms that eat another organism and are, in turn, eaten themselves.
The number of steps an organism is from the start of the chain is a measure of its trophic level.
Food chains start at trophic स्तर 1 साथ प्राथमिक producers such as plants, move to herbivores at level 2, predators at level 3 and typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5.
The path along the chain can form either a one-way flow, or a food `` web. ''
Ecological communities with higher biodiversity form more complex trophic paths.
Four of the most महत्वपूर्ण domesticated silk moths.
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori, Hyalophora cecropia, antheraea pernyi, Samia cynthia.
इससे Meyers Konversations-Lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy cricket.
Silk is a प्राकृतिक प्रोटीन fibre, कुछ फ़ॉर्म of जिससे can be woven into वस्त्र.
The protein fibre of silk is composed mainly of fibroin and produced by certain insect larvae to form cocoons.
The best-known type of silk is obtained from the cocoons of the लार्वे of the शहतूत silkworm bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the silk fibre, which allows रेशा cloth to refract incoming light at different angles, thus producing different colors.
Silks are produced by several other insects, but generally only the silk of moth caterpillars has महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये textile manufacturing.
There has been some research into other silks, which differ at the आणविक level.
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing पूरा metamorphosis, but some adult insects such as webspinners produce silk, and some insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives.
Silk उत्पादन भी occurs in कलापक्ष ( मधुमक्खियों, wasps, and ants ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, beetles, lacewings, fleas, flies and midges.
Other types of arthropod produce silk, most notably various arachnids such as spiders ( see मकड़ी silk ).
Late Show with David Letterman is an अमरीकी late-night talk show hosted by David Letterman on CBS.
The show debuted on August 30, 1993, and is produced by Letterman 's production company, Worldwide Pants incorporated.
The show 's music director and band-leader of the house band, the CBS Orchestra, is Paul Shaffer.
The head writer is Matt Roberts and the announcer is एलन kalter.
Of the major U.S. late-night programs, Late Show ranks second in cumulative average viewers over time and third in number of episodes over time.
The show leads other late night shows in ad revenue with $ 271 million in 2009.
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time, लकिन is अंकित सोमवार through Wednesday at 4:30 p.m., and Thursdays at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The second Thursday episode प्रायः airs on Friday of that week.
In 2002, Late Show with David Letterman was ranked No. 7 on TV Guide 's 50 महानतम TV Shows of All Time.
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the show through 2014 ; by then, Letterman will surpass Johnny कार्सन as the longest tenured late-night talk show host.
the रियल housewives of Orange County is an American reality documentary television program on Bravo, set in Orange County, California.
It was the first The Real Housewives program in the series.
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy lives of these housewives, as they दूकान, मिलेंगी प्लास्टिक surgery, gossip, fight and live lavishly.
The financial crisis, the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with the first season 's broadcast, has since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses, evictions, mortgage defaults, foreclosures, and marital stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show.
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual, a group of individuals, or an organization.
It may include the making of false accusations or statements of fact ( as in defamation ), monitoring, making threats, identity theft, damage to आंकड़ा or उपकरण, the solicitation of नाबालिग लिये sex, or महफ़िल information that may be used to harass.
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a reasonable person, in possession of the same information, would regard it as sufficient to cause another उचित व्यक्ति distress.
cyberstalking is different from spatial or offline stalking in that it occurs through the use of electronic communications technology such as the internet.
However, it sometimes लीड to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both are criminal offenses.
Cyberstalking shares महत्वपूर्ण characteristics with offline stalking.
Many stalkers – online or off – हैं प्रेरित by a desire to control their victims.
a cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन अजनबी or a व्यक्ति जिसको the निशाना knows.
A cyberstalker may be anonymous और may solicit involvement of other people online who do not even know the target.
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that comes into play under state anti-stalking laws, slander laws, and harassment laws.
A cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining order, probation, or even criminal penalties against the assailant, including jail.
A business letter is usually used when writing from one company to another, or for correspondence between such organizations and their customers, clients and other external parties.
The overall style of letter will निर्भर on the relationship between the parties concerned.
There are many कारण to write a business letter.
It could be to request direct information or action from another party, to order supplies from a supplier, to identify a mistake that was committed, to reply directly to a request, to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill.
Even today, the business letter is still very useful because it produces a permanent record, is confidential, formal and delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a hundred species of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe.
Tilapia are mainly freshwater fish, inhabiting shallow streams, ponds, rivers and lakes, and less commonly found living in brackish water.
historically, वे have महरूम of प्रमुख महत्व in कारीगर फ़िशिंग in अफ़्रीकी और the levant, और हैं of increasing महत्व in aquaculture.
Tilapia can become problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally not in temperate climates due to उनके अक्षमता to जीवित in cooler waters below about.
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 कॉमेडी नाटक अपराधों film starring Tom Hanks and Beasley the Dog as the eponymous characters, Turner and Hooch respectively.
The film also stars Mare Winningham, Craig T. Nelson, and Reginald veljohnson.
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film was originally slated to be directed by हेनरी winkler, but he was terminated due to `` creative differences ''.
It was co-written by Michael Blodgett from परे the Valley of the Dolls fame.
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to this film ( exactly three months earlier ), Turner & Hooch became more popular and seemingly overshadowed its greater success, भी though K-9 had a very similar plot.
A pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV series was made and ran as a भाग of The Magical World of Disney.
This is a list of israeli airports, sorted by location.
Entrance to ovda Airport
Terminal 3 at बेन Gurion
Plane लैंडिंग at Be'er Sheva ( Teyman )
Eilat विमानक्षेत्र
एडोल्फ हिटलर ( ; 20 अप्रैल 1889 – 30 अप्रैल 1945 ) थी an आस्ट्रिया -born जर्मनी राजनेता और the नेता of the नाजी पार्टी ( ( nsdap ) ; नेशनल समाजवादी जर्मनी मजदूर Party ).
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 and dictator of नाजी जर्मनी ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945.
Hitler was at the centre of Nazi Germany, World War II in Europe, and the Holocaust.
Hitler थी a सजा veteran of World War I.
he joined the जर्मनी मजदूर ' पार्टी ( precursor of the nsdap ) in 1919, और became नेता of the nsdap in 1921.
In 1923, he attempted a तख्तापलट d'état in Munich, known as the Beer Hall Putsch.
the विफल तख्तापलट resulted in हिटलर 's कारावास, दौरान जिससे समय he लिखा उसके संस्मरण, mein कैम्फ ( my संघर्ष ).
After his release in 1924, Hitler gained popular support by attacking the Treaty of Versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism, antisemitism, and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda.
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933, he transformed the Weimar Republic into the Third Reich, a single-party dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism.
Hitler 's aim was to establish a New Order of absolute Nazi German आधिपत्य in महाद्वीपीय Europe.
To इस समाप्त, उसके विदेशी and domestic policies had the aim of seizing Lebensraum ( `` living space '' ) for the Germanic people.
He directed the rearmament of Germany and the invasion of Poland by the Wehrmacht in September 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
Under Hitler 's rule, in 1941 German forces and their European allies occupied सबसे of यूरोपीय और North Africa.
In 1943, Germany had been forced onto the defensive and suffered a series of escalating defeats.
In the final दिनों of the युद्ध, during the Battle of Berlin in 1945, Hitler married his long-time partner, Eva Braun.
On 30 April 1945, less than two दिनों बाद, the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Red Army, and their corpses were burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is considered the main cause of the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
His antisemitic policies and racially motivated ideology resulted in the deaths of at least 5.5 million Jews, and millions of other people deemed racially inferior.
अंगूठा
a डोमेन नाम is an पहचान स्ट्रिंग कि defines a फ्रेम of प्रशासनिक स्वायत्तता, प्राधिकार, or कंट्रोल on the अंतरजाल.
Domain names are formed by the rules और प्रक्रियाओं of the Domain Name System ( DNS ).
technically, कोई name registered in the DNS is a domain name.
Domain names are used in various networking contexts and application-specific नामकरण and addressing purposes.
in सामान्य, a डोमेन नाम represents an अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( ip ) संसाधन, ऐसे as a निजी कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the अंतरजाल, a सर्वर कंप्यूटर होस्टिंग a वेब साईट, or the वेब साईट itself or कोई अन्य सेवा communicated via the Internet.
Domain names are व्यवस्थित in subordinate levels ( subdomains ) of the DNS root domain, which is nameless.
The first-level set of domain names are the top-level domains ( TLDs ), including the generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ), ऐसे as the prominent domains com, info, net and org, and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ).
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically खोलें for reservation by end-users who wish to connect local area networks to the Internet, create other publicly accessible Internet resources or run web sites.
The registration of these domain names is usually administered by domain name registrars who बेचें उनके services to the public.
a fully योग्य domain name ( FQDN ) is a domain name that is completely specified in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no omitted parts.
Domain names are usually written in lowercase, although लेबल्स in the डोमेन Name System are case-insensitive.
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with the molecular formula NO3− and a molecular mass of 62.0049 g/mol. nitrates भी describe the organic functional group RONO2.
These nitrate esters are a specialized class of explosives.
A गेहूं कटाई in idaho
This photo from a 1921 encyclopedia shows a tractor ploughing a crop फ़ील्ड.
Agriculture is a प्रमुख industry in the United States and the country is a net exporter of food.
As of the last census of agriculture in 2007, there were 2.2 million farms, covering an area of, an average of per farm.
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states, it is particularly concentrated in the vast expanse of flat, arable land known as the Great Plains, which encompasses the central region of the nation.
The Mpemba effect, named after Tanzanian student Erasto Mpemba, is the assertion that warmer जल can फ्रीज faster than colder water.
Although there is anecdotal support for the effect, there is no agreement on exactly what the effect is and under what circumstances it occurs.
There have been reports of similar phenomena since ancient times, although with insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated.
The phenomenon seems contrary to thermodynamics, but a number of possible explanations for the effect have been proposed.
further investigations will need to decide on a precise definition of `` freezing '' and control a vast number of starting parameters in order to confirm or explain the effect.
The Siamese (, ) is one of the पहला distinctly recognized breeds of Oriental cat.
The breed originated in Thailand ( formerly known as Siam ), where they are one of several native breeds and are called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ).
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became one of the most लोकप्रिय breeds in यूरोपीय and North America.
Quality Food centers ( qfc ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue, Washington, with 64 stores in the Puget Sound region of Washington state and in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area.
In economics, the money supply or money stock, is the total amount of monetary assets available in an economy at a specific time.
There are several ways to define `` money, '' but standard measures usually include currency in circulation and demand deposits ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily accessed assets on the books of financial institutions ).
Money supply data are recorded and published, usually by the सरकारी or the central bank of the country.
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored changes in money supply because of its effects on the price level, inflation, the exchange rate and the कारोबार cycle.
That संबंध between धन और कीमतें is historically संबद्ध साथ the मात्रा सिद्धान्त of धन.
वहीँ is दमदार अनुभवजन्य evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth and long-term price inflation, at least for rapid increases in the amount of money in the economy.
That is, a देश ऐसे as Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases in its money supply also saw rapid increases in prices ( hyperinflation ).
इस is एक कारण लिये the रिलायंस on मौद्रिक नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling महंगाई.
The nature of this causal chain is the subject of contention.
Some heterodox economists argue that the money supply is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the economy, not by the central bank ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in the distributional ढांचा of the economy.
In addition, those economists seeing the central bank 's control over the धन सप्लाई as feeble say that there are two weak links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate.
पहला, in the aftermath of a मंदी, जब अनेक संसाधन हैं underutilized, an बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई can कारण a sustained बढ़ाएँ in रियल उत्पादन बजाय of महंगाई.
Second, if the गति of धन, i.e., the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply, changes, an increase in the money supply could have either no effect, an exaggerated effect, or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP.
Logo लिये IMAX.
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema, Wichita, Kansas, USA, 601 seats.
A comparison between 35 mm and 15/70 mm ऋणात्मक areas.
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a motion picture film format and a set of cinema projection standards created by the Canadian company IMAX Corporation.
IMAX has the capacity to record and display images of far greater size and resolution than conventional film systems.
Since 2002, some feature films have been converted ( or upgraded ) into IMAX format for display in IMAX theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX.
IMAX is the most widely used system for special-venue film presentations.
, there are 697 IMAX theatres in 52 देशों.
Today 's Special is a Canadian children 's television show उत्पादित by Clive VanderBurgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and Values Channel/Odyssey ( now the Hallmark Channel ) as well as many PBS stations throughout the United States.
It थी नियत in a department store, based on the flagship location of the now defunct Simpson 's in Toronto.
Many sequences for it were शॉट at the Queen Street West and Yonge Street store after hours.
Constitutionalism, in its most general meaning, is `` a complex of ideas, attitudes, and patterns of behavior elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law ''.
A political organization is constitutional to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of power control for the protection of the interests and लिबर्टीज of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority ``.
As described by political scientist and संवैधानिक scholar David Fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also known as brain freeze, cold-stimulus headache, or its given scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ), is a form of brief cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops.
It is caused by having something cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ), and is believed to result from a nerve response causing rapid constriction and swelling of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head.
The rate of intake for cold foods has been पढ़ाई as a contributing factor.
There are people who can not experience `` brain freeze '' or similar symptoms.
The term ice-cream headache has been in use since at least 31 January 1937, contained in a journal entry by Rebecca Timbres published in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia.
The first published use of the term brain freeze, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, was on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a Scots poem written by Robert Burns in 1788 and set to the tune of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ).
It is well known in many countries, especially in the English-speaking संसार ; इसके traditional use being to celebrate the start of the New Year at the stroke of midnight.
By extension, it is also sung at funerals, graduations and as a farewell or ending to other occasions.
The international Boy Scout youth गति, in many countries, uses it as a close to jamborees and other functions.
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English literally as `` old long since '', or more idiomatically, `` long long ago '', `` days gone by '' or `` old टाइम्स ''.
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '', as it appears in the first line of the chorus, might be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times ''.
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also used in similar poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ), Allan Ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), and James Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns.
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time...
`` in his retelling of fairy tales in the Scots language.
Ben Schulz, player of Leeroy जेनकींस at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and often elongated with numerous additional letters, is an Internet meme named for a player character created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG, World of Warcraft.
The character became लोकप्रिय due to a video of the game that circulated around the Internet.
The घटना रै since spread beyond the boundaries of the gaming community into other online and mainstream media.
ऑस्कर ग्रान्ट थी fatally शॉट by बार्ट पुलिस अधिकारी योहानेस mehserle in ओकलैंड, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य, in the जल्दी morning घंटों of नई साल 's दिन 2009.
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit train returning from San Francisco, BART Police officers detained Oscar Grant and several other passengers on the platform at the Fruitvale BART Station.
Officer Johannes Mehserle and another officer were restraining Grant, who was prostrate and allegedly resisting गिरफ़्तार.
Officer Mehserle stood and, according to witnesses, said : `` Get back, I 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once in the back ; Mehserle appeared stunned, put his hands to his head and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
During his court testimony, Mehserle said that Grant then exclaimed, `` You shot me ! ''
ग्रान्ट turned आउट to be निहत्थे ; he थी सुनाया मुर्दे the अगला morning at highland हॉस्पिटल in ओकलैंड.
The events were captured on अनेक digital video and cell phone cameras.
The footage was disseminated to media outlets और to विभिन्न websites, where it was watched millions of times.
The following days saw both peaceful and violent protests.
The shooting has been variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution.
On January 13, Alameda County prosecutors charged Mehserle with murder for the shooting.
He resigned his position and pleaded not guilty.
The trial began on June 10, 2010.
Michael Rains, Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney, argued that Mehserle mistakenly shot Grant with his पिस्टल, intending to उपयोग उसके तासीर when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband.
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los Angeles judge to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
Oakland civil अधिकारों attorney John Burris filed a $ 25 million wrongful death claim against BART on behalf of Grant 's family.
On July 8, 2010, the jury returned its verdict : Mehserle was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter and not guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter.
Initial protests against the ruling were peacefully व्यवस्थित ; looting, arson, destruction of property, and small riots broke out after dark.
Nearly 80 people were eventually गिरफ्तार.
On Friday, July 9, 2010, the u.S. इंसाफ विभाग खोली a सिविल अधिकारों मामला विरूद्ध Mehserle ; the federal government can prosecute him independently for the same act under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy.
The Department of Justice will be working with the U.S. Attorney 's office in San Francisco and the FBI.
On November 5, 2010, Mehserle was sentenced to two years, minus time परोसा.
He served his time in the Los Angeles County Jail, occupying a private cell away from other prisoners.
He was released on June 13, 2011 and is now on parole.
प्रमुख प्रतिनिधि of the Harlem Renaissance.
The Harlem Renaissance was a cultural movement कि spanned the 1920s.
At the time, it was known as the `` New Negro Movement '', named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke.
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of New York City, many french-speaking ब्लैक लेखक इससे अफ़्रीकी और Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance.
The Harlem Renaissance is unofficially recognized to have spanned from परिचय 1919 जबतक the early or mid-1930s.
Many of its ideas lived on much longer.
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '', as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance, was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A Journal of Negro Life hosted a party for black writers where many white publishers were in attendance ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ).
अफ़्रीकी States between 500 BCE and 1500 CE
Obelisk at temple of Luxor, Egypt.
c. 1200 BCE.
African knight of Baguirmi in full padded armour suit.
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of Africa and the emergence of होमो sapiens in ईस्ट Africa, continuing into the present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states.
Some early evidence of कृषि in Africa dates from 16,000 BCE, and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE.
The recorded history of जल्दी सभ्यता arose in Egypt, and later in Nubia, the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa.
During the Middle Ages, Islam स्प्रेड through the regions.
Crossing the मग़रिब और the सहेल, a major center of Muslim culture was Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture, Mali Empire, Ashanti Empire, Kingdom of Mapungubwe, Kingdom of Sine, Kingdom of Saloum, Kingdom of Baol, Kingdom of Zimbabwe, Kingdom of Kongo, Ancient Carthage, Numidia, Mauretania, the Aksumite Empire, the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate.
From the लेट 15th century, Europeans and Arabs took slaves from West, Central and Southeast Africa overseas in the African slave trade.
European colonization of Africa developed rapidly in the Scramble for Africa of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Following struggles लिये स्वतंत्रता in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as खूब as a weakened यूरोपीय बाद the दूसरी संसार युद्ध ; decolonization took प्लेस.
अफ़्रीकी 's इतिहास रै महरूम चुनौतीपूर्ण लिये शोधकर्ताओं in the फ़ील्ड of अफ़्रीकी अध्ययन क्युकी of the किल्लत of लिखा स्त्रोत in विशाल भाग of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी.
Scholarly techniques such as the recording of oral history, historical linguistics, archaeology and genetics have been crucial.
Curry Foley was the first player in Major League Baseball history to hit लिये the cycle.
In baseball, hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of एक batter hitting a single, a double, a triple, and a home run in the same game.
Collecting the hits in that order is known as a `` प्राकृतिक cycle ''.
Cycles are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ), and have occurred 294 times since the first by Curry Foley in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it has been called `` one of the rarest '' and `` most difficult feats '' in baseball.
Based on 2009 अप्रिय स्तर, the probability of an average MLB player hitting for a cycle against an average team in a game is approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams.
In other baseball leagues, the cycle is achieved less frequently.
Through September 4, 2008, 62 players in Nippon Professional Baseball ( npb ), the top-level baseball organization in Japan, have hit for the cycle, the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara.
Two players have hit for the cycle on the same day once in NPB history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history.
One NPB player has also hit for the cycle in an NPB all-star game.
No player has ever hit for the cycle in the MLB All-Star Game or the postseason.
The main slave routes in medieval Africa.
इस आलेख discusses प्रणालियों, इतिहास, और प्रभाव of गुलामी भीतर अफ़्रीकी.
See Arab slave trade, अटलांटिक स्लेव trade, Maafa, and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` Slave transport in अफ़्रीकी ''.
Europeans usually did not enter the interior regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many सदियां, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the continent, as they were in much of the ancient world.
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent, the enslaved people यहूद largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began, many of the local slave systems changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, and criminal गुलामी were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions, slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities, processor affinity, forcibly terminate processes, and shut bas, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
खिड़कियाँ कार्य Manager was introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task List application, which had far fewer features.
The task list was capable of listing currently कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या them, or creating a new process.
In Windows XP only, a Shutdown menu is also present that allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn off, restart, Log Off and Switch User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) had a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running.
This file was executed by running the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory.
the troop is an american-canadian live-action, सिंगल कैमरा कॉमेडी -adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय a तिकड़ी of teenagers जो लड़ो और कैप्चर राक्षस और अन्य अलौकिक phenomena कि invade the fictional कस्बा of lakewood.
Created and executive produced by Max Burnett, Greg Coolidge और क्रिस मॉर्गन, the श्रेणी premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18, 2009.
The second season premiered on June 25, 2011 and Nickelodeon cancelled the series midway through it 's second season.
The remaining episodes of season 2 were aired on nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area, the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ) is home to a vast potential of natural resources and mineral wealth, its untapped deposits of raw minerals are estimated to be worth in excess of US $ 24 trillion, yet the अर्थव्यवस्था of the drc रै अस्वीकृत drastically since the mid-1980s.
At the time of its independence in 1960, DRC was the second most industrialized country in Africa after South Africa ; it boasted a thriving खनन sector and its agriculture sector was relatively productive.
If the viewer stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and stares at a white object, a negative afterimage will appear ( in this case, it will be cyan on magenta ).
This can also be achieved by the viewer closing his/her eyes और tilting their head up.
An afterimage or ghost image or चित्र burn-in is an optical illusion that refers to an image continuing to appear in one 's vision after the exposure to the original image has ceased.
One of the most common afterimages is the bright glow that seems to float before one 's eyes after looking into a light source for a few seconds.
Closing the नजर can सहायता achieve a better sense of the color in its own aspect.
afterimages come in two forms, negative ( inverted ) and positive ( retaining original color ).
The process behind positive afterimages is unknown, though thought to be related to neural adaptation.
On the other hand, negative afterimages are a retinal phenomenon and are well understood.
Lost is an American serial drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on September 22, 2004 on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ).
The series was created by J. J. Abrams and Damon Lindelof, based upon an original pilot स्क्रिप्ट titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber.
Six सीज़न of the दिखाएँ aired, in जोड to numerous काटें shows to पूर्वावलोकन पिछला एपीसोड.
ABC announced that Lost would end बाद छह seasons, having produced a total of 121 episodes.
The series follows the past, present, and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane crash on a passenger jet, Oceanic Flight 815, flying from Sydney to Los Angeles after it crashes on a तीव्र द्वीप in the दक्षिण Pacific.
The series also शामिल कहानियां of the lives of people already living on the island — they include the `` Others ``, who initially antagonize the survivors, as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana.
Each episode typically सुविधाएँ कार्रवाई on the island as well as a secondary storyline from another point in a character 's life.
Season 6 features a detailing of the lives of the survivors in a different reality, as if the उड़ान had never crashed.
In the following list, the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the character or characters who are featured in the secondary कथानक of each episode.
`` no.
in series '' refers to the episode 's क्रमांक in the overall series, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the एपीसोड 's number in each particular season.
`` U.S. viewers ( million ) '' refers to the number of Americans in millions who watched the एपीसोड live.
A total of 121 episodes of Lost were produced, the last of which aired on may 23, 2010.
All seasons are available on DVD in Regions 1–4 and on Blu-ray in Regions A and B.
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the foot collapses, with the entire sole of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground.
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general population ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ).
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of later increased injury, or foot problems, due to flat feet, in a population of people who reach military service age without prior foot problems.
However, these studies can not be used to judge possible future damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages.
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat feet are associated with foot symptoms, or certain symptoms in other parts of the body ( such as the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to Gen X, is the generation born after the Western post-World War II baby boom.
Demographers, historians and commentators use शुरूआत birth dates from the early 1960s to the early 1980s.
The term was popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 novel Generation X : Tales for an Accelerated Culture.
Before that, it had been used for various subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s.
दबाव छाले, also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, are localized injuries to the skin and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence, as a result of pressure, or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction.
Most commonly this will be the sacrum, coccyx, heels or the hips, but other sites such as the elbows, knees, ankles or the back of the cranium can be affected.
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure applied to soft tissue so that blood flow to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed.
Shear is also a कारण ; shear pulls on blood vessels that feed the skin.
Pressure ulcers most commonly develop in व्यक्तियों जो हैं नहीं चलती about or are confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed that other factors can influence the tolerance of skin for pressure and shear thereby increasing the रिस्क of pressure ulcer development.
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition, microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), diseases that reduce blood flow to the skin, ऐसे as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin, such as paralysis or neuropathy.
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the age of the person, medical conditions ( such as arteriosclerosis, diabetes or infection ), धूम्रपान or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs.
Although often prevented and treatable if found early, pressure ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in critically ill patients, frail elders, wheelchair users ( especially where spinal injury is involved ) and terminally ill patients.
Primary रोकथाम is to redistribute pressure by turning the patient regularly.
The लाभ of turning to avoid further sores is खूब प्रलेखित चूंकि at तनिक the 19th सदी.
In जोड to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair, eating a balanced diet with adequate protein and keeping the skin free from exposure to urine and stool is very important.
The prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospital settings is high, लकिन improvements are being made.
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted in Canada, there was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of दबाव छाले इससे 2009-2010.
Ulcers were most commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however, heel ulcers were the सबसे common facility-acquired location in the survey.
Overboard is a 1987 American romantic comedy film starring Goldie hawn and Kurt Russell.
It was directed by Garry Marshall, उत्पादित by Roddy McDowell, and loosely inspired by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away.
In turn, Overboard was adapted into the 2006 South Korean television series, युगल or Trouble.
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin, located at the head of Green Bay, a sub-basin of Lake Michigan, at the mouth of the Fox River.
it रै an उन्नयन of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर और is स्तिथ उत्तर of मिल्वौकी.
The population was 104,057 at the 2010 census.
It is the third-largest city in the state of Wisconsin, after Milwaukee and Madison.
It is भी the third-largest city on the west shore of Lake Michigan, after Chicago and Milwaukee.
Green Bay is home to the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League, making it by far the smallest महानगर area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise.
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area, which covers Brown, Kewaunee, और oconto Counties and had a combined population of 282,599 at the 2000 census.
Green Bay is an industrial city with several meatpacking and paper plants, and a port on Green Bay, an arm of Lake Michigan that locals call the Bay of Green Bay, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
It is home to the नेशनल Railroad Museum ; the Neville Public Museum, with exhibitions of art, history, and science ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay.
Luteinizing hormone ( LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph cells in the अग्रवर्ती pituitary gland.
In females, an acute rise of LH ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum.
In males, जहाँ lh था भी been called interstitial cell-stimulating hormone ( ICSH ), it stimulates Leydig cell production of testosterone.
It acts synergistically with FSH.
Selena quintanilla-pérez ( April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995 ), known simply as Selena, was an American singer-songwriter.
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best selling Latin artist of the decade '' by Billboard for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart, including seven number-one hits.
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995, `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` No Me Queda Más ``.
She was called `` The Queen of Tejano music `` and the मैक्सिकन समतुल्य of Madonna.
Selena released उसके पहला album, Selena y Los Dinos, at the age of twelve.
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards and landed a recording contract with EMI a few years later.
Her fame grew throughout the जल्दी 1990s, especially in Spanish-speaking countries, and she had begun recording in English as well.
सेलिना थी murdered at the आयु of 23 on कूच 31, 1995 by yolanda saldívar, the पूर्व अध्यक्ष of उसके प्रशंसक club.
On April 12, 1995, two weeks बाद उसके मौत, George W. Bush, governor of Texas at the time, declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas.
Warner भाईs. उत्पादित सेलिना, a film based on her life starring Jennifer Lopez, in 1997.
सेलिना 's जीवन थी भी the आधार of the musical सेलिना forever अभिनीत वेरोनिका vazquez as सेलिना.
in जून 2006 सेलिना थी commemorated साथ a life-sized कांस्य प्रतिमा ( mirador de la flor in कॉर्पस christi, टेक्सास ) और a सेलिना संग्रहालय खोली there.
She has sold over 60 million albums worldwide, making her one of the best-selling artists of all time.
She is also the only female artist to have five albums in U.S. Billboard 200 at the same time.
German Stahlhelm from World War II
Insignia of the Bolivian Army colorados regiment, showing a Stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( plural, stahlhelme ) is German for `` steel helmet ''.
The Imperial German Army began to replace the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with the Stahlhelm दौरान संसार War I in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers both to a generic steel helmet, and more specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design.
The Stahlhelm, with its distinctive `` कोयले scuttle `` shape, was an instantly recognizable icon for military imagery and became a common element of military propaganda on both sides, just like the Pickelhaube before it.
Its name was also used by the Stahlhelm, a paramilitary nationalist organization established at the end of 1918.
glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the production and emission of लाइट by a living organism
Chemiluminescence, is the emission of light ( luminescence ) without emission of ऊष्मा
स्फुरदीप्ति, a specific type of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence, production of luminescence in a material by the bombardment of ionizing radiation
Glow in the Dark Tour, a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a hub city for Lufthansa and receives flights इससे स्टार Alliance carriers.
Airline hubs are airports ranked as large, medium, small, and non-hubs as one of the FAA airport categories which are re-evaluated प्रत्येक साल based on number of commercial passengers.
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an airport कि an एयरलाइन उपयोग as a ट्रांसफ़र पाइंट to get passengers to their intended destination.
It is part of a hub and spoke model, where travelers moving between airports नहीं परोसा by सीधा flights change planes en route to their destinations.
This is as opposed to the पाइंट to Point model.
अनेक hubs of the airlines are also situated at airports in the cities of the respective head offices.
Some एयरलाइंस may use only a single hub, while other airlines use multiple hubs.
Hubs हैं used for both passenger flights as well as cargo flights.
Many एयरलाइंस also use focus cities, which function much the same as hubs.
Airlines may also use secondary hubs, a non-technical term for large focus cities.
A hub in the middle of a route is more effective than at either end as connecting traffic more easily fills the plane - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route.
Hollow lacedaemon.
Site of the menelaion, the shrine to हेलेन और menelaus constructed anciently in the कांस्य आयु नगर कि stood on the हिल of therapne on the बाएँ बैंको of the eurotas नदी निहार the भविष्य साईट of डोरियन स्पार्टा.
Across the valley the successive ridges of माउंट Taygetus are in evidence.
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ), or Lacedaemon, was a prominent city-state in ancient Greece, situated on the banks of the Eurotas River in Laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
It उभरा as a political entity around the 10th century BC, when the invading Dorians subjugated the local, non-Dorian population.
Around 650 BC, it rose to become the dominant military land-power in ancient Greece.
Given its military pre-eminence, Sparta was recognized as the overall leader of the संयुक्त Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars.
Between 431 and 404 BC, स्पार्टा was the principal enemy of Athens during the Peloponnesian War, from which it emerged victorious, though at great cost.
स्पार्टा 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of Leuctra in 371 BC ended Sparta 's prominent role in Greece.
However, it maintained its political स्वतंत्रता until the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC.
It then underwent a long period of decline, especially in the मध्य आयु, when many Spartans moved to live in Mystras.
आधुनिक स्पार्टा is the पूंजी of the यूनानी क्षेत्रीय ईकाई of laconia और a बीच लिये the प्रसंस्करण of goods ऐसे as citrus और olives.
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its social system and constitution, which completely focused on military training and excellence.
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates ( Spartan citizens, who enjoyed full rights ), Mothakes ( non-Spartan free men raised as Spartans ), Perioikoi ( freedmen ), and Helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local population ).
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training and education regimen, and Spartan phalanges were widely considered to be among the best in battle.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably more rights and equality to men than elsewhere in the classical world.
स्पार्टा थी the subject of fascination in its own day, as well as in the West following the revival of classical learning.
This love or admiration of Sparta is known as Laconism or Laconophilia.
Fantasy football is an interactive competition in which users compete against each other as general managers of virtual teams.
The players that an individual is able to manage are professional American football players in the National Football League.
The different क्रियाएँ लोगों हैं समर्थ to make are drafting, trading, adding or dropping players, and changing rosters.
Due to the growth of the Internet, Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity, particularly because Fantasy football providers such as ESPN, Yahoo, CBS, and the NFL itself are able to keep track of statistics entirely online, eliminating the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players.
Most leagues have a single week championship in सप्ताह 16 of the NFL season.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded population figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest अनुमान, it may मनाही to 6 billion.
The world जनसांख्यिकी is the total number of living humans on Earth.
as of आज, it is अनुमानित to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb ).
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on कूच 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
the संसार जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक मौत in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global जनसांख्यिकी increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections दिखाएँ a जारी बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population विकास, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles भीतर the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on both sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples range from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical position.
In other positions, other actions may be performed.
A सुनहरा बार is a मात्रा of परिष्कृत धात्विक सुनहरा of कोई आकार कि is बना by a बार निर्माता बैठक मानक शर्तें of manufacture, labeling, और रिकार्ड keeping.
Larger gold bars that are produced by pouring the molten metal into molds are called ingots.
Smaller bars may be manufactured by minting or stamping from appropriately rolled gold sheets.
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by central banks and traded among bullion dealers is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar.
The kilobar, which is to say 1000 grams in mass, is the bar that is more manageable and is used extensively for trading and investment.
The premium on these bars when traded is very low over the spot value of the gold making it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders.
Most kilobars are flat, although some investors, particularly in Europe, prefer the brick shape.
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' मैनिंग III ( born May 19, 1949 ) is a former American football quarterback in the National Football League, playing for the New Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982, then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings.
He is the father of current Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning, current New York Giants starting quarterback Eli Manning, and former Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning.
Advocacy is a political process by an individual or group which aims to influence public-policy and resource allocation decisions within political, आर्थिक, और social systems and institutions.
Advocacy can include many क्रियाएँ कि a व्यक्ति or organization undertakes including media campaigns, public speaking, commissioning and publishing research or polls or the filing of an amicus brief.
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a direct approach is made to legislators on an issue which plays a significant भूमिका in आधुनिक politics.
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S. and Canada are using social media to सुकर civic engagement and collective action.
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a vertical tricolor of green, white, and red with the national coat of arms charged in the center of the white stripe.
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time, these three colors were adopted by Mexico following independence from Spain during the country 's War of Independence, and subsequent First Mexican Empire.
The current flag was adopted in 1968, but the overall design has been used since 1821, when the First National Flag was created.
The वर्तमान law of national symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and Anthem, that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984.
Red, white, and green are the colors of the national मुक्ति फौज in Mexico.
The central emblem is the Aztec pictogram for Tenochtitlan ( now Mexico City ), the बीच of their empire.
It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on कया थी originally a lake-island.
The form of the coat of arms was सबसे recently revised in 1968.
A ribbon in the national colors is at the bottom of the कोट of बाहें.
Throughout history, the ध्वज रै बदला four times, as the design of the coat of arms and the length-width ratios of the flag have been modified.
However, the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle, holding a serpent in its talon, is perched on top of a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake.
The coat of arms is derived from an Aztec legend that their gods told them to build a city where they spot an eagle on a nopal eating a serpent, which is now Mexico City.
The वर्तमान national flag, the Fourth National Flag, is also used as the Mexican naval ensign by ships registered in Mexico.
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town, city, region, or country in order to increase the number of visitors.
It promotes the development and विपणन of a destination, focusing on convention sales, tourism marketing, and services.
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing visits from tourists and business travelers, which generates overnight lodging for a destination, visits to restaurants, and खरीदारी revenues.
सम्मेलन और आगंतुक bureaus हैं the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण पर्यटन marketing organizations in their respective tourist destinations, as they are directly responsible for marketing the destination brand through travel and tourism `` product awareness '' to visitors.
DMOs produce billions of dollars in direct and indirect revenue and taxes for their destinations ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise.
Destination marketing organizations are often called travel, convention, visitors, or tourism bureaux, welcome centers, information centers और more.
Regardless of the name, these organizations offer many services to the traveling public.
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is one of the largest species of deer in the world, and one of the largest land mammals in North America and eastern Asia.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European red deer ( Cervus elaphus ), but evidence from a 2004 study of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the two are distinct species.
This एनिमल चाहिए not be confused with the larger moose ( Alces alces ), to which the name `` elk '' applies in Eurasia.
Apart from the moose, the only other member of the हिरण परिवार to rival the elk in size is the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ).
Elk range in forest and forest-edge आवास, feeding on grasses, plants, leaves, and bark.
Although native to North America and eastern Asia, they have adapted खूब to देशों where they have been introduced, including Argentina, Australia, and New Zealand.
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic species and ecosystems into which they have been introduced.
Male elk have large antlers which are shed each year.
Males also engage in ritualized mating behaviors during the rut, including posturing, antler wrestling ( sparring ), and bugling, a loud series of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females.
Elk are susceptible to a number of infectious diseases, some of which can be transmitted to livestock.
Efforts to eliminate infectious diseases from elk populations, largely through टीकाकरण, have had mixed success.
Some cultures revere the elk as a आध्यात्मिक force.
In parts of Asia, antlers and their velvet हैं प्रयुक्त in traditional medicines.
Elk are hunted as a game species ; the meat is leaner and higher in protein than beef or chicken.
The George Washington विश्वविद्यालयों ( GW, GWU, or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, Bachelor degrees, Masters degrees, and PhDs across several dozen disciplines.
The विश्वविद्यालयों was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9, 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the four big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae.
With some males exceeding in weight, it is the second-largest जीना cat after the tiger.
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population resides in Gir Forest नेशनल पार्क in इण्डिया ) जबकि other types of lions have disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia in historic times.
Until the late Pleistocene, about 10,000 सालो ago, the lion was the most widespread large land mammal after humans.
They were found in most of Africa, across Eurasia from western Europe to India, and in the Americas from the Yukon to Peru.
The lion is a vulnerable species, having seen a major population decline of 30–50 % over the past two decades in its African range.
Lion populations are untenable outside designated reserves and national parks.
Although the cause of the decline is not fully understood, habitat loss and conflicts with humans are currently the greatest causes of concern.
Within Africa, the वेस्ट African lion population is particularly endangered.
Lions live for 10–14 years in the wild, while in captivity they can live longer than 20 years.
In the wild, males seldom live longer than 10 years, as injuries sustained from continual fighting with rival males greatly reduce their longevity.
They typically inhabit savanna and grassland, although they may take to bush और forest.
Lions are unusually social compared to other cats.
A pride of शेर consists of related females and offspring and a small number of adult males.
Groups of मादा lions typically hunt together, preying mostly on large ungulates.
Lions are apex and keystone predators, although they scavenge as opportunity allows.
While lions do not typically hunt humans, some have been known to do so.
Sleeping mainly during the day, lions हैं primarily nocturnal, although bordering on crepuscular in nature.
Highly distinctive, the male lion is easily recognised by its mane, and its face is one of the most widely recognised animal symbols in human culture.
Depictions have existed इससे the अपर paleolithic काल, साथ उत्कीर्णन और paintings इससे the lascaux और chauvet गुफाएं, through वस्तुतः सब प्राचीन और मध्यकालीन संस्कृतियों जहाँ वे एकबार occurred.
It has been extensively depicted in sculptures, in paintings, on national flags, and in contemporary films and literature.
Lions have been kept in menageries since the time of the Roman Empire, and have been a key species sought for exhibition in zoos over the world since the late 18th century.
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding programs for the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
In the history of video games, the seventh generation of consoles is the previous generation, and includes consoles released since late by Nintendo, Microsoft, and Sony.
For home consoles, the seventh पीढी began on 22 November 2005 with the release of Xbox 360 and continued with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006, and Wii on 19 November 2006.
Each new console introduced a new type of भेदन in technology.
the एक्सबॉक्स 360 offered खेल rendered natively at hd रिज़ॉल्यूशन, the प्लेस्टेशन 3 offered, in जोड to fhd गेमिंग, hd फिल्म प्लेबैक via a built-in 3d blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी, और the वी केन्द्रित on integrating परिरक्षक साथ गति सेंसर as खूब as joysticks.
Joining Nintendo in the motion market, Sony released the PlayStation Move in September 2010.
The PlayStation Move सुविधाएँ गति sensing gaming, similar to that of the Wii.
Microsoft also joined Sony and Nintendo, with its Kinect.
Unlike the other two systems ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ), Kinect does not use any controllers of any sort and makes the users the `` controller. ''
Having sold 8 million units in its first 60 days on the market, Kinect has claimed the गिनीज World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device ''.
While the Xbox 360 offers wired controllers as a standalone product, all PlayStation 3 controllers can be used in wired and wireless configurations.
Starting with handheld consoles, the seventh generation began on 21 November 2004 with the North American introduction of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar '', alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles.
The निन्टेंडो ds ( nds ) सुविधाएँ a touch screen and built-in microphone, and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the revised version of the NDS, the DSi, features two built in cameras, the ability to download games इससे the DSi store, and a web browser.
The PlayStation Portable, or PSP, released later the same year on 12 December 2004, followed a different pattern.
It became the first handheld video game console to use an optical disc format, Universal Media Disc ( UMD ), as its primary storage media.
Sony also gave the PSP robust multi-media capability, connectivity with the PlayStation 3 and other PSPs, and Internet connectivity.
The Nintendo DS likewise has connectivity to the internet through the निन्टेंडो wi-fi कनेक्शन and Nintendo DS Browser, as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles.
Despite high sales संख्याएँ for both consoles, PlayStation Portable sales have consistently lagged behind those of the Nintendo DS ; nevertheless, the PlayStation Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system.
Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band ( often shortened to sgt. pepper ) is the eighth studio album by English rock band the Beatles.
Released in June 1967, the album included songs such as `` With a Little Help from My Friends ``, `` Lucy in the Sky with ईंट ``, and `` A Day in the Life ``.
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the बैंड 's album Revolver ( 1966 ), Sgt. Pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of the time and incorporated balladry, psychedelic, music hall, and symphonic influences.
During the Sgt. Pepper sessions, the group improved upon the quality of their music 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques.
Producer George Martin 's innovative approach included the उपयोग of an ऑर्केस्ट्रा.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by English pop artists Peter Blake and Jann Haworth, was inspired by a sketch by Paul McCartney that depicted the band posing in front of a collage of कुछ of उनके पसंदीदा हस्तियाँ.
Sgt. Pepper was a worldwide critical and commercial success, spending 27 weeks at the top of the UK Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200.
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style, the album was critically acclaimed upon release and won four ग्रैमी Awards in 1968.
With an estimated 32 million copies sold, it is one of the world 's best selling albums.
Sgt. Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential and famous rock album ever, and has been named the greatest album of all time by दोनो सब समय शीर्ष 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone.
The temporal lobe is a region of the दिमागी cortex कि is located beneath the lateral fissure on both cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain.
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories, processing sensory इनपुट, comprehending भाषा, storing new memories, emotion, and deriving meaning.
The human lungs are the organs of respiration in humans.
Humans have two lungs, a सही lung and a left lung.
The right lung consists of three lobes while the left lung is slightly smaller consisting of only two lobes ( the left lung has a `` cardiac notch '' allowing space for the heart within the chest ).
Together, the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli, having a total surface area of about ( ) in adults — roughly the same area as one side of a tennis court.
Furthermore, if all of the capillaries that surround the alveoli were unwound and laid end to end, they would extend for about.
Each फेफड़ों weighs, therefore making the entire organ about.
इंसान lungs
The श्वासनली divides into two bronchi ( one for each side ) at the level of T4.
This junction is also known as the carina.
The conducting zone contains the श्वासनली, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar ducts, and the alveoli.
the conducting मण्डल and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) are made up of airways.
The conducting zone has no gas exchange with the blood, and is reinforced with उपास्थि in order to hold open the airways.
The conducting zone warms the air to and humidifies the air.
It also cleanses the air by निकालना अणु via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways.
The फेफड़े are surrounded by the rib cage.
The respiratory zone is the site of gas एक्सचेंज with blood.
The सहानुभूतिपूर्ण बेचैन प्रणाली via noradrenaline acting on the beta receptors causes bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic बेचैन system via acetylcholine, which acts on the M-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle.
This action is सम्बन्धित, हालांकि considered distinct from bronchoconstriction.
Many अन्य non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli, including carbon dioxide and oxygen, are also involved in the regulation process.
The pleural cavity is the संभावित space between the parietal pleura, lining the inner wall of the thoracic cage, and the visceral pleura lining the lungs.
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar tissue with respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles.
However, it often includes any form of फेफड़ों tissue, also including bronchioles, bronchi, blood vessels and lung interstitium.
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila mixed with Cointreau or similar नारंगी -flavoured liqueur and lime or lemon juice, often served with salt on the glass rim.
It is the most common tequila-based cocktail in the United States.
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the rocks ), blended with ice ( frozen margarita ), or without ice ( straight up ).
Two bottles of रेड बरगंडी wine from Gevrey-Chambertin, Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color associated with the Burgundy wine of the वही name, which in turn is named after the Burgundy region of France.
The color बरगंडी is similar to other shades of dark red such as maroon.
When referring to the color, `` burgundy '' is usually not capitalized.
The first recorded use of `` burgundy '' as a color name in English was in 1881.
Grave of an unknown British soldier, killed in 1943 दौरान the Battle of Leros.
Because his identity is unknown, he is लापता in action.
Grave of an unknown American soldier in oise-aisne कब्रिस्तान.
Killed in 1917
Grave of an unknown छत्रसेना, killed in the Battle of Arnhem, 1944.
photographed in April 1945
Graves of 11 unknown British soldiers killed during संसार युद्ध ii, in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of unknown Italian soldiers killed during World War II, in a rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval मेमोरियल to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of unknown French सैनिको killed during World War One.
Each concrete क्रॉस रै a मेटल प्लैक bearing the word `` Inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli battlefield, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified French soldiers who died in 1915
Graves of unknown Eritrean ascaris killed in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned under the Status of Missing to armed services personnel who are reported missing during active service.
They may have been killed, wounded, become a कैदी of war, or deserted.
If deceased, neither उनके remains nor grave can be positively identified.
Becoming MIA has been an occupational risk for service personnel for as long as वहीँ has been warfare.
कक्ष of कॉमर्स भवन in बीच.
This building is the original jail, built साथ with the Historic Courthouse.
Both sit on the Town वर्गाकार.
The Rio Theater in बीच
First Baptist गिरिजाघर at 117 Cora Street in Center is located next to the downtown section.
First Christian Church at 124 Cora गली in Center is one of the oldest congregations in the community.
Center is a city in Shelby County, Texas, United States.
The population was 5,193 at the 2010 census.
It is the county सीट of शेल्बी County.
It is named for its location near the center of Shelby County, not for its location in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border.
Intense red-eye प्रभाव in ब्लू आँखें with dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in छायाचित्र is the common appearance of red pupils in color photographs of eyes.
It occurs when using a photographic flash very close to the camera lens ( as with most कॉम्पैक्ट cameras ), in ambient low light.
The effect appears in the eyes of humans and animals that have tapetum lucidum.
Theatrical followspot operators, positioned nearly coincidentally with a very bright light and somewhat distant from the actors, occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage.
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience because it is reliant on the very small angle between the followspot operator and the light.
The University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, सांता बारबरा ( commonly referred to as UC Santa Barbara or UCSB ) is a public research university and one of the ten general campuses of the University of California system.
The main campus is located on a site in Goleta, California, United States, from Santa Barbara and northwest of Los Angeles.
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college, UCSB joined the University of California system in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system.
UCSB is one of America 's Public Ivy विश्वविद्यालयों, which recognizes top public research universities in the United States.
The university is a comprehensive doctoral university and is organized into five colleges and schools offering 87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees.
The campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment with 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students.
In 2012, UCSB was ranked 41st among `` National Universities '' and 10th among public विश्वविद्यालयों by U.S. News & World Report.
The university was also क्रमित 35th विश्वव्यापी by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings and 34th worldwide ( 6th worldwide for engineering ) by the Academic Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research university and spent $ 191.2 million on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year, 97th-largest in the United States.
UCSB houses twelve national research centers, including the प्रसिद्ध kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics.
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, एक फ़ील्ड medalist, 29 members of the National Academy of Sciences, 27 members of the National Academy of Engineering, and 31 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
UCSB was the No. 3 host on the ARPAnet and was elected to the Association of American Universities in 1995.
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete in the NCAA Division I Big West Conference.
The Gauchos have won NCAA national championships in men 's soccer and men 's जल polo.
Saint जोसेफ साथ the Infant Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day, March 19, the Feast of St. Joseph is in Western Christianity the principal feast day of Saint Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
He is also the step-father of Jesus of Nazareth /Jesus Christ.
it has the rank of a solemnity in the Roman Catholic Church ; Catholics who follow the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast.
Previous to 1962 it was celebrated as a feast of the rank of double of the first class.
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the Anglican Communion, and a feast or festival in the Lutheran Church.
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as for Canada, persons named Joseph, Josephine, etc., for religious संस्थान, schools and parishes bearing his name, and for carpenters.
It is also Father 's Day in some Catholic countries, mainly Spain, Portugal, and Italy.
March 19 was dedicated to Saint Joseph in several Western पंचांग by the tenth century, and this custom was established in Rome by 1479.
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to the entire Roman Rite by his Apostolic Constitution Quo Primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, Episcopal Conferences may, if they wish, transfer it to a तिथि outside Lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was मनाये in honor of St. Joseph as Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of the Universal Church, the latter title having been given to him by Pope Pius IX.
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after Easter with an octave, बाद divino Afflatu of St. Pius X ( see Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius X ), it was moved to the preceding Wednesday.
The feast was also retitled The Solemnity of Saint Joseph.
इस celebration and its accompanying octave was abolished during the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955.
It is still कायम by Catholics who follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals.
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss. Philip and James, May 1, had faded from the memory of most Catholics by the mid-twentieth century, that of Joseph the Worker was created in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries.
The feast of Ss. Philip and James, which had been celebrated on that date चूंकि the छठे सदी, was moved from its traditional place.
In the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, which at one time occupied the highest possible rank in the Church calendar, was reduced to an optional Memorial, the lowest rank for a saint 's day.
The Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates संत जोसेफ on the Sunday after Christmas.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American सिंगर, songwriter, record producer, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the मार्गदर्शन of कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड executive Tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with Boyz II Men, spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which time Carey था अलग from Mottola.
Carey left Columbia in 2000, and signed a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records.
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and थी hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of her recording contract for $ 50 million, which led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, and after an unsuccessful period, returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s, and was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over दो दशकों, कैरी रै बेची अधिक than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक कलाकारों of सब समय.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Carey थी also named the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
According to the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग Association of America, she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
साथ the रिलीज of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, कैरी थी ranked second on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
aside इससे उसके वाणिज्यिक accomplishments, कैरी रै जीती पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 17 संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, 11 अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, और 31 बिलबोर्ड म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World Records, she is famed for her five-octave vocal range, power, melismatic स्टाइल और हस्ताक्षर उपयोग of the whistle register.
a bumblebee is कोई सदस्य of the मधुमक्खी genus bombus, in the परिवार apidae.
वहीँ हैं over 250 ज्ञात प्रजाति, मौजूदा primarily in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध हालांकि वे भी occur in दक्षिण अमेरिका.
They have been introduced to New Zealand and the Australian state of Tasmania.
bumblebees हैं सोशल कीट कि हैं characterised by ब्लैक और पीला देह बालों, प्रायः in bands.
however, some species have orange or red on their bodies, or may be entirely black.
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the hair ( long, branched setae ), पुकारा pile, कि कवर उनके संपूर्ण body, making them appear and feel fuzzy.
They are best distinguished from similarly large, fuzzy bees by the form of the female hind leg, which is modified to रूप a corbicula : a चमकदार concave सतह कि is bare, but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees, the hind leg is completely hairy, and pollen grains are wedged into the hairs for transport ).
Like their relatives the honey bees, bumblebees feed on nectar and एकत्रित पराग to feed their young.
A man openly carrying a handgun in a Burger King in Eagle, Colorado.
In the United States, open carry is shorthand terminology for `` openly carrying a firearm in public '', as distinguished from concealed carry, where firearms can not be देखी by the कैज़ुअल observer.
The practice of open carry, where gun owners openly carry firearms while they go about their daily business, has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent years.
This has been marked by a number of organized events intended to increase the visibility of open carry and public awareness about the practice.
Proponents of open carry point to history and statistics, noting that अपराधियों प्रायः छिपाते their weapons.
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org, GeorgiaCarry.org and some participants of the Free State Project, open carry has seen a revival in recent years, but it is not yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend.
The gun rights जातियाँ रै been mixed in its response.
एलन gottlieb of the दूसरी amendment न्यास और the nra have महरूम cautious in expressing support, जबकि special-interest समूह ऐसे as the aforementioned opencarry.org और georgiacarry.org, और निश्चित नेशनल समूह ऐसे as the गन स्वामी of अमेरिका ( गोवा ) have महरूम अधिक outspoken in एहसान of the अभ्यास.
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups such as the Brady Campaign and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.
The Cattenom Nuclear Power संयंत्र in फ़्रांस.
France produces around three quarters of its विद्युत by nuclear power.
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in जर्मनी.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following जापानी 's फुकुशिमा daiichi nuclear disaster.
फिलहाल, 68 रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत निर्माण in 15 देशों.
Nuclear power stations operate in thirty countries.
in 2010, पहले the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति, it थी reported कि an औसत of परिचय 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational प्रति साल, हालांकि according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to become operational between 2007 और 2009, तभी पाँच दरअसल came on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power.
As of June 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and पुर्तगाल remain opposed to nuclear power.
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera, and to finished motion picture film, ready for use in a प्रोजेक्टर, जिससे bears बिंब in रंग.
The first color cinematography was by means of योगात्मक रंग प्रणालियों such as the one patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902.
A simplified additive system was developed by George अल्बर्ट स्मिथ and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These early systems used black-and-white film to photograph and project two or अधिक component images through different color filters.
Still from फुटेज recorded by Edward Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology, there are two distinct processes : Eastman Color Negative 2 chemistry ( camera negative stocks, duplicating interpositive and internegative stocks ) and Eastman Color Positive 2 chemistry ( positive prints for direct projection ), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Fuji 's उत्पाद are compatible with ECN-2 and ECP-2.
ashanti shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter, record producer, and actress.
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album, which featured the hit song `` Foolish ``, and sold over 503,000 copies in its first week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
The album set a Soundscan record as the biggest opening week sales for a new female artist, outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill.
In the same सप्ताह, she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two places on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '', and `` What 's Luv ? ``
( with Fat Joe ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs, `` Foolish, '' `` What 's Luv ? '' and `` Always on Time ``, on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same week, being the first woman to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles.
In 2003, the self-titled debut album won Ashanti her first Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R & B album.
As of अप्रैल 1st 2013, Ashanti has sold over 27.7 million records worldwide.
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the तीसरा शीर्ष new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé.
She also ended the decade at number 38 on the Top Artist of the दशक सूची.
She is currently on the list of The Twenty Best Selling Music Singles Since 1990 for her single Foolish for selling 7.2 million copies to-date.
Ashanti has an estimated जाल लायक of $ 40 million dollars [ USD ].
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) ``, which reached number one on Billboard Hot 100, which was also in the top 10 chart at the same time as `` Foolish '', `` Always on Time '' ( with Ja Rule ), and `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ).
Later that year, she was acclaimed as the `` Princess Of Hip-Hop & R & B '' by her लेबल and capped off her successful debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards.
भीतर सात सालो of ashanti 's करियर, वो रै scored 16 शीर्ष 40 हिट्स on the hot 100.
Ashanti has endorsed numerous products including Gap, Herbal Essences और mudd Jeans.
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet Jackson, Prince, Madonna, Tupac Shakur, मरियम J. Blige, Ella Fitzgerald, Smokey Robinson, Donna Summer, and Blue Magic as her musical influences.
Praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers and critics alike, Ashanti has written/co-written the बल्क of all her music.
She is currently working on her own publishing कम्पनी हकदार Written Entertainment.
She released her fourth studio album entitled The Declaration on June 3, 2008 and is currently in the studio working on her fifth.
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other female singers for the `` Stand Up to Cancer '' live television special which helped raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research.
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the military विमानन arm of the United States of America during and immediately after World War II, and the direct predecessor of the United States Air Force.
The AAF was a component of the United States Army, which in 1942 was divided functionally by executive order into three autonomous forces : the Army Ground Forces, the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ), and the AAF.
Each of these forces had a commanding general who reported सीधे to the Chief of Staff of the United States Army.
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly distributed among the Army Air Corps, General Headquarters Air Force, and ground forces corps area commanders, and thus became the पहला एयर संगठन of the u.S. फौज to control its own installations and support personnel.
In practice, the AAF was virtually autonomous inside the Army.
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 million men and women in service and nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, और 783 घरेलू bases in दिसम्बर 1943.
By VE Day it had 1.25 million men stationed overseas and संचालित इससे more than 1,600 airfields worldwide.
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a greater autonomy in which to expand more efficiently, and to provide a structure for the additional command echelons जरूरी by a vastly increased फ़ोर्स.
Although other nations already had separate air forces independent of the army or navy ( such as the British Royal Air Force and the German Luftwaffe ), the AAF remained a part of the United States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947.
However, in its expansion and conduct of the war, the AAF became अधिक than बस an arm of the greater organization.
By the end of World War II the AAF had become virtually an independent सेवा.
By regulation and executive order, the aaf थी a अधीनस्थ एजेंसी of the War Department tasked only with organizing, training, and equipping combat units, limited in responsibility to the continental United States, as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces.
In reality, Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air war in every part of the world, determining एयर नीति and issuing orders without transmitting them through the Chief of Staff.
This `` contrast between theory and fact is... fundamental to an understanding of the AAF. ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of information law that allows for the पूरा or आंशिक disclosure of previously unreleased information and documents controlled by the United States government.
The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure, outlines mandatory प्रकटीकरण procedures and grants nine exemptions to the statute.
It was originally signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson, despite his misgivings, on जुलाई 4, 1966 as and went into effect the following year.
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act should not be उलझन साथ the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the individual states.
Many of those state acts may be समान but not identical to the federal act.
The European Union ( EU ) is an economic and political union of 27 member states that are located primarily in Europe.
The EU operates through a प्रणाली of supranational स्वतंत्र संस्थानों और intergovernmental negotiated निर्णय by the सदस्य राज्य.
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission, the Council of the European Union, the European Council, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Central Bank, the अदालत of Auditors, and the European Parliament.
The European Parliament is elected every five years by EU citizens.
The EU 's de facto capital is Brussels.
The EU traces its origins from the European Coal and Steel Community ( ECSC ) and the European Economic Community ( EEC ), formed by the Inner Six countries in 1951 and 1958 respectively.
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of new member states and in power by the addition of policy areas to its remit.
The Maastricht Treaty स्थापित the European Union under its current name in 1993.
The latest major amendment to the constitutional basis of the eu, the सन्धि of Lisbon, came into force in 2009.
The eu रै विकसित a सिंगल मार्केट through a standardised प्रणाली of कानून कि लागू in सब सदस्य राज्य.
Within the Schengen Area ( which includes 22 EU and 4 non-EU states ) passport controls have been abolished.
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, services, and capital, enact legislation in justice and home affairs, and maintain common policies on trade, agriculture, fisheries and regional development.
A monetary union, the eurozone, was established in 1999 and is composed of 17 member states.
Through the Common Foreign and सुरक्षा नीति the EU has developed a role in external relations and defence.
Permanent diplomatic missions have been स्थापित around the world.
The EU is represented at the United राष्ट्र, the WTO, the G8 and the G-20.
With a combined population of over 500 million inhabitants, or 7.3 % of the world population, the EU, in 2012, generated a nominal gross domestic product ( GDP ) of 16.584 trillion US dollars, representing approximately 20 % of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity, and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world.
The EU was the recipient of the 2012 Nobel सलाम पुरस्कार.
The Wales national rugby league team represent वेल्स in international rugby league football matches.
Currently the team is seventh in the RLIF संसार Rankings.
The team were run under the auspices of the Rugby Football League, but an independent body, Wales Rugby League, now runs the team from Cardiff.
A total of three Welsh players have been entered into the रग्बी लीग Hall Of Fame.
Similar to many other वेल्श नेशनल sporting teams, Wales strip has been primarily red for many years, including now.
However in their last World Cup campaign in 2000 they did wear a shirt featuring the वेल्श ध्वज, adding a touch of green and white.
The team is known as `` The Dragons '' and so the teams logo on the shirt is a red dragon.
The team date back to 1907, making them the तीसरा oldest national side after England and New Zealand.
और it थी a touring New Zealand side that Wales first played against in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly played England, since 1935 France, as well as welcomed the touring Australia and New Zealand teams, although they rarely toured themselves, not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975.
For twenty-six years Wales competed against their two biggest rivals, England and France, in the यूरोपीय राष्ट्र कप, जीतना the trophy four times.
Wales have also competed in the World Cup on three occasions, the first time being in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful tournaments to date, surprisingly making the Semi-Finals on both occasions before being beaten by England and Australia respectively.
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup, being the second highest ranked side not to do so, having lost to Scotland on points difference over two matches.
In 2008 Australian John डिक्सन became the new head coach and appointed Lee Briers as captain, having played for Wales since 1998.
In recent seasons Wales have taken massive strides under former player Iestyn Harris who has coached Wales to back to back European Cup successes, which culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( वस्तुतः `` दिल मांसपेशी बीमारी '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the heart muscle ) for any reason, usually leading to heart failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral edema ( swelling of the legs ).
People with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of dangerous forms of irregular heart beat and sudden cardiac death.
The most common form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to the act of sexual intercourse.
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The उत्पत्ति of the word is obscure.
It is usually considered to be first attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा, a क्रिया, an adjective or an adverb.
There are many common phrases which make use of the word, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : this article adopts the U.S. Department of Transportation 's definition of a passenger vehicle, to mean a car or truck, used for passengers, excluding buses and trains.
The United States is घर to the largest passenger vehicle market of any country in the world.
Overall, there were an अनुमानित 254.4 लाख registered passenger vehicles in the United States according to a 2007 DOT study.
This number, along with the average age of vehicles, has increased steadily since 1960, indicating a growing number of vehicles per capita.
The Chinese car market, however, is poised to soon exceed the United States ; by the end of 2012, there were over 240 million cars on the road in China.
The United States is also home to तीन विशाल गाडी निर्माताओं : General Motors, Ford Motor Company and Chrysler, which have historically been referred to as the `` Big Three. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the top three ; but is number five, behind Toyota and Honda.
The motor car has clearly become an अभिन्न part of American life, with vehicles outnumbering licensed drivers.
Clinical laboratory in a Hospital setting showing several स्वचालित analysers.
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are done on clinical specimens in order to get information about the health of a patient as pertaining to the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease.
In poker, players construct hands of five cards according to predetermined rules, which vary according to which variant of poker is being played.
These hands are compared using a hand ranking system that is standard across all variants of poker, the player with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker.
In some variants, the lowest-ranking हाथ can win or tie.
These hand rankings are also used in some other card games, और in पोकर dice.
The ranking of a particular हाथ is increased by including multiple cards of the same card rank, by all five cards being from the same suit, or by all five cards being of consecutive rank.
The relative ranking of the various hand categories is based on the probability of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck.
ब्रूस रान्डेल hornsby ( born November 23, 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, synthesizer, accordion, and dulcimer player, and songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances, Hornsby draws frequently from classical, jazz, bluegrass, folk, Motown, gospel, rock, blues, and jam band musical traditions with his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within.
Hornsby 's recordings have महरूम recognised on a number of occasions with industry awards, including the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 with Bruce Hornsby and the Range, the Best Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990, and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993.
Hornsby has also achieved मान्यता for his solo albums and performances, his touring band Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers, his bluegrass project with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician.
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was a member of the बैंड इससे September 1990 to March 1992, playing at over one hundred shows during that period.
गन्ना plantation in rural Cuba
कृषि in Cuba has played an important part in the economy for several hundred years.
कृषि contributes less than 10 percent to the gross domestic product ( GDP ), but it employs roughly 20 percent of the working population.
About 30 percent of the country 's land is used for crop cultivation.
The inefficient agricultural उद्योग in क्यूबा रै led to the need to import large amounts of foods.
Cuba now imports about 80 % of the food it rations to the public.
The rationing program accounts for about a तीसरा of the food energy the average Cuban consumes.
Overall, however, Cuba is dependent on imports for only 16 % of इसके खाना.
सही
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game Mega Millions as the successor of The Big Game ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game.
The first ( The Big Game ) Mega Millions drawing was in 2002 ( see below ).
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 equal yearly installments ( unless the cash option is chosen ) ; usually, the jackpot increases when there is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no jackpot winner for the $ 12,000,000 December 18, 2012 drawing, the jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be आयोजित on December 21.
( See below for information on how the game 's jackpot is funded. )
Reflecting common practice among American lotteries, the jackpot is advertised as a nominal मान of annual installments.
A cash value option ( the usual choice ), जब चुनी by a jackpot winner ( see below ), pays the approximate present value of the installments.
Mega Millions currently uses a 5/56 ( white balls ) plus 1/46 ( the Mega Ball ) double matrix to select its winning numbers.
Each game costs $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the exception ), there is an option, called Megaplier ( such games are $ 2 each ) where non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
The Megaplier was made available to all Mega Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only विकल्प.
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. पूर्वी समय मंगलवार and Fridays, including holidays.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of its 12 original lotteries and the drawings are held at WSB-TV in Atlanta, Georgia.
supervised by the जॉर्जिया Lottery.
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions, as well as in American lottery history, was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a cash option of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March 30, 2012 drawing in which there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois, Kansas, and Maryland.
All three tickets था been claimed as of April 18, with each set of winners choosing the cash option.
is a Japanese manga series created by writer Tsugumi Ohba and manga कलाकार Takeshi Obata.
The main अक्षर is Light Yagami, a high school student who discovers a supernatural notebook, the `` Death Note '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk.
The Death Note grants its user the ability to kill anyone whose name and face they know, by writing the name in the notebook while picturing their face.
The series centers around Light 's attempt to create and rule a world `` cleansed of evil '' as `` God '' using the notebook, and the efforts of a detective known as L to stop him.
Death Note was first serialized in 108 chapters by Shueisha in the Japanese manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to May 2006.
The series was also published in tankōbon format in Japan starting in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes.
The anime series aired in Japan from October 3, 2006, to June 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 episodes, the दुश्मनी थी developed by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki.
A light novel आधारित on the श्रेणी, लिखा by nisio isin, थी released in जापानी.
Additionally, various video खेल have been published by Konami for Nintendo DS.
The श्रेणी थी adapted into live-action films released in Japan on June 17, 2006, November 3, 2006, and February 2, 2008.
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in North America and has published all the twelve volumes from the series, a 13th volume जिससे serves as a `` रीडर 's मार्गदर्शिका '', as खूब as the light novels.
The episodes from the anime first appeared in North America as downloadable by IGN.
Viz later licensed the anime series and it aired on Bionix in Canada and on Cartoon संजाल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The live-action films briefly played in certain North American theaters since 2008.
However, none of the वीडियो खेल have thus far been published in North America or Europe.
मौत नोट is एक of साप्ताहिक shōnen jumps best-selling manga श्रेणी of सब समय, साथ बिक्री over 26.5 लाख नक़ल.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' Eve, is a yearly celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
अन्य scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
New York City taxicabs during midtown rush hour in Manhattan
The taxicabs of New York City, with their distinctive yellow पेंट, are a widely recognized icon of the city.
Taxicabs are operated by private companies and licensed by the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC ).
It also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles, including `` black cars '', commuter vans and ambulettes.
`` medallion टैक्सी, '' the familiar yellow cabs, are the only vehicles in the city permitted to pick up passengers in response to a street hail.
Schematic cross section of part of leaf, xylem shown as red circles at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ).
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem ऊतक is लकडी, हालांकि it is मिला throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to transport water, but it भी transports some nutrients through the plant.
U.S. women suffragists demonstrating for the right to vote, फ़रवरी 1913.
Women 's suffrage also known as woman suffrage is the right of women to vote and to run for office.
सीमित मतदान अधिकारों यहूद gained by महिलाओं in स्वीडन, फिनलैंड और कुछ पश्चिमी u.S. राज्य in the लेट 19th सदी.
International organizations were formed to coordinate efforts, especially the International परिषद of महिलाओं ( 1888 ) and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
In 1893, New Zealand, then a self-governing British colony, granted adult women the right to vote and the self-governing British colony of South Australia did the same in 1895, but also permitted महिलाओं to चलाएं लिये दफ्तर.
Australia federated in 1901, and women acquired the सही to vote और stand in federal elections from 1902, though uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national elections were not completely removed until 1962.
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of Finland, then part of the Russian Empire, which also produced the world 's first female members of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary elections.
Norway followed, granting full women 's suffrage in 1913.
In most Western countries, women 's suffrage came after World I War I I, with some important late adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971.
Women 's suffrage has generally been recognized after political campaigns to obtain it were waged.
In अनेक देशों it was granted before universal suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, adopted by the United Nations in 1979.
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a गोथिक suspense novel, the author 's first published book.
यहोवा 's गवाह is a millenarian restorationist ईसाई denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream Christianity.Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : The organization reports worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents involved in evangelism, convention attendance of over 12 million, and annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million.
They are directed by the Governing Body of Jehovah 's Witnesses, a समूह of बड़ो in Brooklyn, New York, that establishes all doctrines.
Jehovah 's Witnesses ' beliefs are based on their interpretations of the Bible and they prefer to use their own translation, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
They believe कि the destruction of the present world system at Armageddon is imminent, and that the establishment of God 's kingdom on earth is the only solution for all problems faced by mankind.
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the late 1870s by Charles Taze Russell with the formation of Zion 's Watch मीनार ट्रैक्ट समाज —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford.
The name Jehovah 's witnesses, based on Isaiah 43:10–12, was adopted in 1931 to distinguish themselves from other Bible छात्र groups and symbolize a break with the legacy of Russell 's traditions.
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door preaching, distributing literature such as The Watchtower and Awake !
, and refusing military service and blood transfusions.
वे consider उपयोग of the नाम यहोवा vital लिये उचित इबादत.
They reject Trinitarianism, inherent immortality of the soul, and hellfire, which they consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
They do not observe Christmas, Easter, birthdays, or other holidays and customs they consider to have pagan origins incompatible with christianity.
Adherents commonly refer to their body of beliefs as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
They consider secular society to be morally corrupt and under the influence of Satan, and सबसे सीमा their social interaction with non-Witnesses.
Congregational disciplinary actions include disfellowshipping, their term for formal expulsion and shunning.
baptized individuals जो formally छोड़ हैं माना disassociated और हैं भी shunned.
Disfellowshipped and disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed repentant.
The religion 's position regarding conscientious objection to military service and refusal to salute national ध्वज रै brought it into conflict with some governments.
नतीजतन, यहोवा 's गवाह have महरूम persecuted और उनके क्रियाएँ हैं बैन or प्रतिबंधित in कुछ देशों.
Persistent legal challenges by Jehovah 's गवाह have बहकावे legislation related to civil rights in several countries.
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian romantic Drama film directed by Bernardo Bertolucci which portrays a recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young, betrothed Parisian woman.
It stars Marlon Brando, Maria श्नाइडर, and Jean-Pierre Léaud.
The film 's raw portrayal of sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to international controversy and खींचा विभिन्न levels of government censorship.
The MPAA gave the film an X rating upon रिलीज in the United States.
After revisions were made to the MPAA ratings code, it थी वर्गीकृत as an NC-17 in 1997.
mgm released a censored R-rated cut in 1981.
The film रै इसके nc-17 rating for `` some explicit sexual content. ''
Windows XP is an operating system produced by Microsoft for use on personal computers, सहित home and business desktops, laptops and media centers.
First released to computer manufacturers on अगस्त 24, 2001, it is the second most popular version of Windows, based on installed user base.
The name `` XP '' is short for `` eXPerience '', highlighting the उन्नत उपयोक्ता अनुभव.
Windows XP, the successor to Windows 2000 and Windows ME, was the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel.
Windows XP was released worldwide for retail sale on अक्तूबर 25, 2001, and over 400 million copies were in use in January 2006.
It was succeeded by Windows Vista in जनवरी 2007.
Direct OEM and retail sales of Windows XP ceased on June 30, 2008.
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through their प्रणाली Builders ( smaller OEMs who sell assembled computers ) program until January 31, 2009.
On April 10, 2012, microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and Office 2003 would end on April 8, 2014 and suggested that administrators begin preparing to migrate to a newer OS.
The NT -based versions of Windows, which are प्रोग्रामित in C, C++, and assembly, are known for their improved stability and efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows.
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user interface, a change Microsoft promoted as more user-friendly than previous versions of Windows.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` that plagued the past versions of Windows, improved side-by-side assembly technology in Windows XP allows side-by-side installation, registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software components in full isolation.
It is also the first version of Windows to use product activation to combat illegal copying.
During Windows XP 's development, the project was codenamed `` Whistler '', after Whistler, British Columbia, as many Microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort.
According to web analytics data generated by Net Applications, Windows XP was the most widely used operating system until August 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost every month since at least November 2007, the first month for which statistics are publicly available from Net Applications.
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with music and lyrics written in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively.
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase meaning `` by a सिर '', which refers to a horse winning a race by the length of one head.
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track gambler who compares his addiction for horses with his attraction to women.
Alfredo Le Pera was a Brazilian इससे são पाउलो, a much italian-influenced area in Brazil, and also the birthplace of Zequinha de Abreu, composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá.
Le Pera and Gardel died in an airplane crash in medellín, ( Colombia ), on June 24, 1935.
Por una cabeza
the टैंगो रै चूंकि महरूम performed by numerous टैंगो orchestras.
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), Schindler 's List ( 1993 ), True Lies ( 1994 ), Titanic ( 1996 ), Bad Santa ( Uncut Version, 2003 ), All the किंग 's मेन ( 2006 ), Planet 51 ( 2009 ), episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of South Korean drama series Sweet Spy ( 2005–08 ), the beginning and ending credits of the South Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry, I Love You ( 2004 ), and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ).
in the फिल्म Frida ( Salma Hayek, 2002 ), Gardel is heard singing it on a radio.
It is also quoted in David डेल Tredici 's `` Good News !
Nilda is Back '' ( from the song cycle Miz Inez Sez ).
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` The Tango Project '', who actually appear in the dancing scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ).
John Williams arranged a version of the piece that appears on the album `` Cinema Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have also performed the piece together in live concerts.
In 2012 a dance version was released by the group `` Da Carrera '' featuring the original vocal recording by Carlos Gardel.
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is one of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms for maintaining blood pressure.
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease therefore causing blood pressure to decrease ; likewise, decreased blood pressure activates the baroreflex, causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure.
The system relies on specialized neurons, known as baroreceptors, in the aortic arch, carotid sinuses, and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood दबाव और relay them to the brainstem.
Subsequent changes in blood pressure are mediated by the autonomic nervous system.
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative feedback loop in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system.
The Loma Prieta भूकंप, भी ज्ञात as the भूकंप of '89 और the संसार श्रेणी भूकंप, थी a प्रमुख भूकंप कि struck the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया on अक्तूबर 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm लोकल समय.
caused by a स्लिप साथ the सैन andreas दोष, the भूकंप lasted 10–15 सेकेंड और measured 6.9 on दोनो the पल परिमाण स्केल ( surface-wave परिमाण 7.1 ) और on the open-ended रिक्टर स्केल.
The quake killed 63 लोगों throughout northern California, injured 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless.
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 संसार श्रेणी, featuring both of the Bay Area 's Major League Baseball teams, the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants.
Because of game-related खेल कवरेज, इस थी the first major earthquake in the United States to have its initial jolt broadcast live on television.
Pawn in the मानक Staunton pattern
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest piece in the game of chess, historically representing infantry or, more particularly, armed peasants or pikemen.
In chess, each player begins the game with आठ प्यादे, एक on प्रत्येक square of the rank immediately in front of the other pieces.
( In algebraic notation, the white pawns start on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, while black प्यादे start on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
Individual pawns are referred to by the file on which they stand.
For example, one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` Black 's b-pawn '', or less commonly ( using descriptive notation ), `` White 's king 's bishop pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn ''.
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn, meaning any pawn on the a- or h-file, a knight pawn ( on the b- or g-file ), a bishop pawn ( on the c- or f-file ), a queen pawn ( on the d-file ), a king pawn ( on the e-file ), and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ).
The military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals.
The armed forces of most developed countries have now removed policies excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ).
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in the military include the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security Council ( United States, United Kingdom, France, and Russia ), the Republic of China ( Taiwan ), Australia, Israel, South Africa, Argentina, and all NATO members excluding Turkey.
Hydrogen उत्पादन is the family of industrial methods for generating hydrogen.
Currently the dominant प्रौद्योगिकी for direct production is steam reforming from hydrocarbons.
Many other methods are known सहित electrolysis and thermolysis.
In 2006, the United States was estimated to have a production capacity of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen.
5 million tonnes of hydrogen were consumed on-site in oil refining, and in the production of ammonia ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 million tonnes were an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process.
हाइड्रोजन उत्पादन is an estimated $ 100 billion industry.
A basis point ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '', also known as a `` beep '' ) is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point, or one part per ten thousand, 1/10000.
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad, literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ', and in that context is written with which looks like a percent sign ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end ( like a stylized form of the four zeros in the denominator, हालांकि it originates as a प्राकृतिक एक्सटेंशन of the प्रतिशत ( % ) और permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
a आधार पाइंट is पारिभाषित as:
1 basis पाइंट = 1 permyriad = one one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of measurement in contexts where percentage differences of less than 1 % are discussed.
The most common example is interest rates, जहाँ मतभेद in interest rates of less than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 प्रतिशत अंक is समतुल्य to a change of 10 basis points ( e.g. a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ).
Like percentage points, basis points avoid the ambiguity between relative and absolute discussions about interest rates by dealing only with the निरपेक्ष बदलें in numeric value of a rate.
For example, if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % ब्याज रेट, this could refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative, 1 % of 10 % ), or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute, 1 % plus 10 % ).
If, however, the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point increase '' from a 10 % interest rate, then we know that the ब्याज रेट of 10 % रै increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate.
It is आम अभ्यास in the वित्तीय उद्योग to use basis points to denote a rate change in a financial instrument, or the difference ( spread ) between two interest rates, including the yields of fixed-income securities.
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to some index or underlying security, they will often be quoted as a spread over ( or under ) the index.
For example, a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % प्रति annum ऊपर the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 basis points over LIBOR, which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 ''.
The term `` basis पाइंट '' रै इसके origins in trading the `` basis '' or the spread between two interest rates.
Since the basis is usually small, these are quoted multiplied up by 10000, and hence a `` full point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis point.
Contrast with pips in FX forward markets.
The संबंध between प्रतिशत परिवर्तन और आधार अंक can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage point change = 100 basis points, and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point.
so, a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50 basis points ; or interest rates that have risen 1 percentage point are said to have increased by 100 basis points.
The British Royal Family is the group of बंद relatives of the monarch of the United Kingdom.
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of people who are the relations of the monarch in her or his role as sovereign of any of the other Commonwealth realms, thus sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by birth or marriage, the House of Windsor, since 1917, when George V changed the name of the royal हाउस from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at war with Germany and given the British Royal Family 's strong German ancestry ; it was felt that its public image could be improved by choosing a more British house name.
The new name चुनी, विंडसर, था बिल्कुल no कनेक्शन अन्य than as the नाम of the किला जिससे थी और continues to be a royal निवास.
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family, and different lists will include different people, those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ), or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members, which usually results in the application of the term to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the widowed consorts of previous monarchs, the children of the monarch and previous monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons.
On 30 November 1917, King George V issued Letters Patent defining who are members of the Royal Family ; the text of the notice from the London गजट is as follows:
In 1996, Her Majesty The महारानी परिवर्धित these Letters Patent, as was evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent यहूद issued to extend a title and a style borne by members of the Royal Family to additional persons to be born, evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and relatives of the British Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various places throughout the British Empire, sometimes for extended periods as viceroys, or for specific ceremonies or कार्यक्रम.
Today, they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout the United Kingdom and abroad on behalf of the United Kingdom.
Aside from the monarch, their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve, if eligible and when appointed by letters patent, as a Counsellor of State, two or more of whom exercise the authority of the Crown ( within stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch.
In the other realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल royalty do not serve as Counsellors of State.
However in each such realm the monarch 's family members may act on निमित्त of, हैं वित्तपोषित by, and represent the sovereign of that particular state, and not the United Kingdom.
The Queen, her consort, her children and grandchildren, as well as all former sovereigns ' children and grandchildren hold places in the first sections of the official orders of precedence in England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
Wives of the said enjoy their husbands ' पूर्वता, and husbands of princesses are unofficially but habitually placed with their wives as well.
however, the महारानी बदला the निजी अनुक्रम of पूर्वता in the royal परिवार in पक्ष of राजकुमारियों ऐनी और एलेक्जेंड्रा, जो henceforth लो निजी पूर्वता over the duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, जो is वरना the फ्रेम 's उच्चतम रैंकिंग स्त्री बाद the महारानी herself.
She did not alter the relative precedence of other born-princesses, such as the daughters of her younger बेटे.
हैती ( ; haitian क्रियोल ayiti ), officially the गणतंत्र of हैती ( ; ), is a caribbean देश.
it occupies the पश्चिमी, छोटी portion of the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला, in the वृहद antillean द्वीपसमूह, जिससे it साझा साथ the डोमिनिकन Republic.
Ayiti ( land of high mountains ) was the indigenous Taíno or Amerindian name for the island.
The देश 's highest point is Pic la Selle, at.
The total area of हैती is और its capital is Port-au-Prince.
Haitian Creole and फ्रेंच are the official languages.
Haiti 's क्षेत्रीय, ऐतिहासिक, and ethno-linguistic position is unique for several reasons.
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean, the first black -led republic in the world, and the second republic in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave revolution lasting nearly a decade.
In 2012, Haiti announced its intention to seek associate membership status in the African Union.
Haiti is the most populous of the predominantly Francophone independent nations in the Americas.
It is one of only two स्वतंत्र nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to designate French as an official language ; the other French-speaking areas are all overseas départements, or collectivités, of France.
Haiti is the most populous full member-state of the Caribbean जातियाँ ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest country in the Americas as measured by the इंसान Development Index.
राजनैतिक हिंसा has occurred regularly throughout its history, leading to government instability.
Most recently, in February 2004, a coup d'état originating in the north of the country forced the resignation and exile of President jean-bertrand aristide.
a अस्थायी सरकारी took कंट्रोल साथ सुरक्षा provided by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र स्थिरीकरण मिशन in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ).
Michel Martelly, the current अध्यक्ष, थी निर्वाचित in the Haitian general election, 2011.
The island has had a history of destructive earthquakes.
A 7.0 परिमाण earthquake struck Haiti on 12 January 2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince.
The highest reliable death count was estimated at 220,000.
Haitian सरकारी estimates were higher.
The Presidential palace, Parliament and many other important structures were destroyed, along with countless homes and businesses, leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless.
The country has yet to recover from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to both the severity of the damage Haiti endured in 2010, as well as a government that was अप्रभावी खूब पहले the भूकंप.
United States aid organizations have दान $ 2 billion.
Combined with other international donations, these funds are intended to contribute to the पुनर्निर्माण of the country.
The खूनी Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo, the Italian electro house and dance-punk music producer, DJ and photographer.
The Bloody Beetroots is well-known for the black Venom mask he wears during performances.
In fact, the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed across his chest, which is both the year that the producer and punk-rock was born.
`` The Bloody Beetroots DJ set '' contains Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo and टॉमी चाय.
a मोटोरोला सलाहकार alphanumeric पेजर प्रयुक्त in ब्राज़ील in the 1990s, संचालित by teletrim
A pager is a wireless telecommunications device that receives and displays numeric or text messages, or receives and announces voice messages.
One-way pagers can only receive messages, while response pagers and two-way pagers can also acknowledge, reply to, and originate messages using an internal transmitter.
Pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes one or more fixed ट्रांसमीटरों ( or in the case of response pagers and two-way pagers, one or more base stations ), as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users.
These systems can range from a restaurant system with a single low-power transmitter, to a nationwide system with thousands of high-power आधार स्टेशन.
One of the first practical paging services was launched in 1950 for physicians in the New York City area.
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz ) pager that would receive फोन संदेश within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
The system was manufactured by the Reevesound कम्पनी and operated by Telanswerphone.
In 1960, John Francis Mitchell combined elements of Motorola 's Walkie Talkie and automobile radio technologies to create the first transistorized pager, and from this point, paging technology continued to advance, and pager adoption continued to expand, until the early 1990s.
However, by the mid-1990s, as cellular technologies became cheaper and more widely available, उन्नत services began to displace paging as a commercial product.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche उत्पाद, ढूंढना preferential use in applications such as hospitals, public safety, and retail locations where their simplicity, high reliability, and low cost represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a town in Dorchester काउंटी, South Carolina, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 196 at the 2010 census.
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, and used by the U.S. Census Bureau for statistical purposes only, Reevesville is included within the Charleston-North Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area.
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6, 1907 – July 13, 1954 ) was a Mexican painter, born in Coyoacán, who is best known for her self-portraits.
Kahlo 's life began and ended in Mexico नगर, in her home known as the Blue House.
She gave her birth date as July 7, 1910, but her birth certificate shows July 6, 1907.
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her birth to coincide with the year of the शुरूआत of the Mexican revolution so that her life would begin with the birth of modern Mexico.
उसके कार्य रै महरूम मनाये in मैक्सिको as emblematic of नेशनल और स्वदेशी परंपरा, और by नारीवादी लिये इसके uncompromising चित्रण of the मादा अनुभव और रूप.
Mexican culture and amerindian सांस्कृतिक tradition are important in her work, which has been sometimes characterized as Naïve art or folk art.
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '', and in 1938 André Breton, principal initiator of the surrealist movement, described kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb ''.
Kahlo had a volatile marriage with the famous Mexican artist Diego Rivera.
She suffered lifelong health problems.
अनेक of her health problems were the result of a traffic accident she survived as a teenager.
Recovering from her injuries isolated her from other people and this isolation influenced her works, many of which are self-portraits of one sort or another.
Kahlo suggested, `` I paint myself because I am so often alone and because I am the विषय i know best. ''
She also stated, `` I was born a bitch.
I थी born a painter. ''
300px
Theresienwiese on the day before Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held annually in Munich, Bavaria, Germany, running from late September to the पहला weekend in October.
It is one of the most famous events in Germany and is the world 's largest fair, with more than 6 million people from around the world attending the event every year.
To the स्थानीय, it is not called Oktoberfest, but `` die Wiesn '', after the colloquial name of the fairgrounds themselves.
The Oktoberfest is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of Bavarian culture, having been held since 1810.
Other cities across the संसार also hold Oktoberfest celebrations, modeled after the original Munich event.
The Munich Oktoberfest originally took place during the sixteen days up to, and including, the पहला संडे in October.
In 1994, the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd, then the पर्व होता go on जबतक अक्तूबर 3 ( German Unity Day ).
Thus, the festival is now 17 दिनों when the first Sunday is October 2 and 18 days when it is October 1.
In 2010, the festival lasted जबतक the पहला Monday in October, to mark the anniversary of the event.
The festival is held in an area named the Theresienwiese ( field, or मर्ग, of Therese ), often called Wiesn for short, located near Munich 's center.
Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are खपत, साथ लगभग 7 million liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007.
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as hendl ( मुर्गा ), schweinebraten ( रोस्ट पोर्क ), schweinshaxe ( ग्रील्ड हैम ओल ), steckerlfisch ( ग्रील्ड मछली on a स्टिक ), würstl ( sausages ) along with Brezeln ( Pretzel ), Knödel ( potato or bread dumplings ), Käsespätzle ( cheese noodles ), Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ), Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ).
A platter with चीज and garnishes
पहियों of Gouda
Cheese is a generic term for a diverse समूह of milk-based food products.
Cheese is उत्पादित in wide-ranging flavors, textures, and forms.
Cheese consists of proteins and fat from milk, usually the milk of cows, buffalo, goats, or sheep.
It is produced by coagulation of the milk protein casein.
Typically, the milk is acidified and जोड of the एंजाइम rennet causes coagulation.
The solids are separated and pressed into final form.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
Most cheeses melt at cooking तापमान.
Hundreds of types of cheese from various countries are produced.
Their styles, textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's diet ), whether वे have महरूम pasteurized, the butterfat सामग्री, the bacteria and mold, the processing, and aging.
Herbs, spices, or wood smoke may be used as flavoring एजेंटों.
The yellow to red color of अनेक cheeses, such as Red Leicester, is normally formed from adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or lemon juice.
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria, which turn milk sugars into lactic acid, तब the जोड of rennet completes the curdling.
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are available ; most are produced by fermentation of the fungus Mucor miehei, but others have been extracted from विभिन्न प्रजाति of the Cynara thistle family.
चीज is valued for its portability, long life, and high content of fat, protein, calcium, and phosphorus.
Cheese is more compact and has a longer shelf life than milk, although how long a चीज will keep may depend on the type of cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim that a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening.
Generally speaking, hard cheeses पिछला longer than soft cheeses, such as Brie or goat 's milk cheese.
cheesemakers near a dairy region may benefit from fresher, lower-priced milk, and lower shipping costs.
The long storage life of some cheese, especially if it is encased in a protective rind, allows selling जब बाज़ार हैं अनुकूल.
Additional ingredients may be added to some cheeses, such as black peppers, लहसुन, chives or जमाया.
A specialist seller of चीज is sometimes known as a cheesemonger.
To become an expert in this field, like wine or cooking, requires some formal education and years of चख and hands-on experience.
This position is typically responsible for all aspects of the cheese inventory ; selecting the cheese menu, purchasing, receiving, storage, and ripening.
Legal citation signals are a set of brief abbreviated phrases or words used to clarify the authority or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition.
Signals help a reader quickly discern meaning or usefulness of a particular सन्दर्भ जब the सन्दर्भ itself does not provide adequate information.
Most citation signals are placed in front of the citation to which they apply.
For example, in the paragraph When writing a legal argument, it is important to refer to primary sources.
To assist readers in locating these sources, it is desirable to use a standardized citation format.
See generally Harvard Law Review Association, The Bluebook : a वर्दी प्रणाली of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that some courts may require any legal papers that are सुपुर्द to them to conform to a different citation format.
the signal is the phrase `` देखिए generally, '' जिससे indicates that the citation `` The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the topic.
Neil Alden Armstrong ( August 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012 ) was an American astronaut and the first person to चलना on the Moon.
He was also an aerospace engineer, naval aviator, test pilot, and university professor.
Before becoming an astronaut, Armstrong was an officer in the U.S. Navy and served in the कोरियाई War.
After the war, he earned his bachelor 's degree at purdue विश्वविद्यालयों और परोसा as a test pilot at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics High-Speed Flight Station, now known as the Dryden Flight Research Center, where he logged over 900 flights.
he बाद समाप्त ग्रैजुएट अध्ययन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in Space Soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar human spaceflight programs, Armstrong joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962.
He made his first space flight, as command pilot of Gemini 8, in 1966, becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly in space.
On this mission, he performed the first docking of two spacecraft, with pilot David Scott.
Armstrong 's second और last spaceflight was as mission commander of the Apollo 11 moon landing, in July 1969.
On this mission, Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface and spent two and a half hours exploring, while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the Command Module.
Along with Collins and Aldrin, आर्मस्ट्रांग थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय Medal of Freedom by President Richard Nixon ; in 1978, President Jimmy Carter presented Armstrong the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1978 ; he and his former crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009.
आर्मस्ट्रांग died in सिनसिनाटी, ओहियो, on अगस्त 25, 2012, at the आयु of 82, बाद जटिलताओं इससे कोरोनरी धमनी बायपास सर्जरी.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown चैंपियन in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
He is considered to be one of the महानतम Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th century, the highest ranking racehorse on the सूची URL_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at The मर्ग in Caroline County, Virginia.
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War, Secretariat was a large chestnut colt and was given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte, along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ), और दिग्गज एडी मेपल ( पिछला रेस ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, and weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
Madrid (, ) is the capital and largest city of Spain.
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire जनसांख्यिकी of the मैड्रिड metropolitan area is calculated to be around 6.5 million.
It is the third-largest city in the European Union, after London and Berlin, and its metropolitan area is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris.
The city spans a कुल of.
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country and the Community of Madrid ( which comprises the city of Madrid, its conurbation and extended suburbs and villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha.
As the capital city of Spain, seat of सरकारी, and residence of the Spanish monarch, Madrid is also the political, economic and cultural centre of Spain.
The current mayor is ana botella from the People 's Party ( PP ).
the मैड्रिड शहरी agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the European Union and its influences in politics, education, entertainment, environment, media, fashion, science, culture, and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities.
Due to its economic output, high standard of living, and market size, Madrid is माना the प्रमुख वित्तीय centre of Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies, such as Telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the continent, and the seventh most visited city in the world according to Forbes.
Is the 10th most livable city in the world according to Monocle magazine, in its 2010 index.
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics.
Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ), belonging to the United Nations Organization ( UN ), the SEGIB, the Organization of Ibero-American States ( OEI ), and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
it भी होस्ट प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय संस्थानों regulators of स्पेनी : the खड़ा कमेटी of the संघ of स्पेनी भाषा अकादमियों, मुख्यालय of the royal स्पेनी अकादमी ( rae ), the cervantes संस्थान और the न्यास of तात्कालिक स्पेनी ( fundéu ).
Madrid organizes fairs as FITUR, ARCO, SIMO TCI and the Cibeles Madrid Fashion Week.
While Madrid possesses a आधुनिक अवसंरचना, it has preserved the look and feel of many of its historic neighbourhoods and streets.
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park, founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National Library building ( founded in 1712 ) containing some of स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख ; a विशाल क्रमांक of नेशनल museums, and the Golden Triangle of Art, located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum, the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, a museum of modern art, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums.
Cibeles Palace and Fountain have become the monument symbol of the city.
The path of the Via appia and of the Via Appia Traiana.
remains of the Appian Way in Rome, near Quarto Miglio
Near रोम.
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : Via Appia ) थी एक of the earliest and strategically most important Roman roads of the ancient republic.
it connected Rome to Brindisi, Apulia, in southeast Italy.
Its importance is indicated by its common name, recorded by Statius :
appia teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the Appian way is the queen of the long सड़कें ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor who began and completed the first section as a सैन्य सड़क to the south in 312 BC during the Samnite Wars.
The Draupner wave, a single giant wave measured on New Year 's Day 1995, आखिरकार confirmed the existence of freak waves, which had previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves, monster waves, killer waves, extreme waves, and abnormal waves ) are relatively large and spontaneous ocean surface waves that occur far out at sea, and are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners.
In oceanography, they are more precisely defined as waves जिनकी ऊँचाई is अधिक than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ), which is itself defined as the mean of the largest third of waves in a wave record.
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest waves found at sea ; they are, rather, surprisingly large waves for a given sea state.
Rogue लहरें seem नहीं to have a सिंगल पृथक कारण, लकिन occur जहाँ शारीरिक कारकों ऐसे as ऊँची हवाएँ और दमदार currents कारण लहरें to विलय to बनाएँ a सिंगल exceptional विशाल वेव.
electress sophia of Hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों throne is the ordered sequence of all those people eligible to succeed to the throne of the United Kingdom and the other 15 Commonwealth realms.
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on the Electress Sophia of Hanover and her descendants while excluding Roman Catholics.
the अंग्रेजों सरकारी करता नहीं प्रकाशित an आधिकारिक सूची of सब those in लकीर to सफल, लकिन the कार्य of genealogical लेखक और amateur शोधकर्ताओं suggests कि वहीँ हैं अनेक हजार लोगों potentially in line.
At a summit in Perth, Western Australia in 2011, the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms agreed to take steps to adopt absolute primogeniture, end the exclusion of people married to Roman Catholics, और मेक other changes in the succession rules.
The line of succession is also used to select the Counsellors of State ( and a regent if the need arises ) under the provisions of the Regency Act 1937.
For earlier versions of the line of succession, see History of the British line of succession.
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17, 1920July 23, 1966 ) was an American film and stage actor The New York Times’ obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody, sensitive young men ''.
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in the Sun, the anguished Catholic priest in Hitchcock 's I Confess, the doomed regular soldier Robert E. Lee Prewitt in Fred Zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity, and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions.
Later, after a disfiguring car crash in 1956, and alcohol and prescription drug गाली, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important roles were still his, including `` the reckless, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in John Huston 's The Misfits, the title role in Huston 's, and the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations during his career, three for Best Actor and one for Best supporting कर्ता.
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a term commonly applied to an international military campaign which started as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.
इस resulted in an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान to eliminate al-qaeda और अन्य उग्रवादी संगठन.
the संयुक्त Kingdom and many other NATO and non-NATO nations participate in the conflict.
The phrase 'war on आतंक ' थी पहला प्रयुक्त by us अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश on 20 सितंबर 2001.
The Bush प्रशासन और the पश्चिमी media have since used the term to signify a global military, political, lawful, and conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them.
It was typically used with a particular focus on militant Islamists, al-Qaeda, and other jihadi groups.
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term विदेशी आकस्मिकता Operation ), it is still commonly used by politicians, in the media and by some aspects of government officially, such as the United States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.
German battleship Schleswig-Holstein, Westerplatte, September 1, 1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding after her forward magazine was detonated during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of संसार युद्ध ii यहूद nationalistic मुद्दे, अनसुलझे मुद्दे, और resentments resulting इससे संसार युद्ध i और the interwar काल in यूरोपीय, in जोड to the प्रभाव of the ग्रेट अवसाद in the 1930s.
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of war are generally understood to be the 1939 invasion of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of चीन by the Empire of Japan.
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the authoritarian ruling Nazi elite in Germany and by the नेतृत्व of the Kwantung Army in Japan.
World War II started after these aggressive actions were met with an official declaration of war and/or armed प्रतिरोध.
The following is a list of gods and other divine and semi-divine figures from Greek mythology.
The list करता नहीं शामिल जीव ; लिये ये, देखिए सूची of यूनानी पौराणिक जीव.
The Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 और 2012.
The name was derived from the French word galant, अर्थ `` chivalrous ''.
There have been nine distinct generations, and cumulative बिक्री अभी exceed five million.
It began as a compact sedan, but over the course of its life has evolved into a larger mid-size car.
Initial production was only based in Japan, but since 1994 the American market has been served by vehicles assembled at the former Diamond-Star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal, Illinois.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial blood pressure, is the pressure exerted by circulating रक्त upon the दीवारें of रक्त बरतन, and is one of the principal vital signs.
When used without further specification, `` blood दबाव '' प्रायः refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic circulation.
During each heartbeat, blood pressure varies between a maximum ( systolic ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) pressure.
The blood pressure in the circulation is principally due to the pumping action of the heart.
मतभेद in औसत रक्त दबाव हैं जिम्मेदार लिये रक्त प्रवाह इससे एक स्थान to another in the परिसंचरण.
The rate of औसत रक्त प्रवाह depends on the resistance to flow presented by the blood vessels.
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating रक्त चालें away from the heart through arteries and capillaries due to viscous losses of energy.
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole circulation, although most of the fall occurs along the छोटी धमनियों और arterioles.
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g., during standing ) and valves in veins, breathing, and pumping from contraction of skeletal muscles also influence रक्त दबाव in रगों.
रक्त दबाव बगैर further specification प्रायः refers to the प्रणालीगत arterial दबाव measured at a व्यक्ति 's अपर भुजा और is a माप of the दबाव in the brachial धमनी, the प्रमुख धमनी in the अपर arm.
A person’s blood दबाव is usually expressed in terms of the systolic pressure over diastolic pressure and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ), for example 120/80.
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the power ( used by an officer of the state, for example ) to unilaterally stop an official action, especially the enactment of legislation.
A veto can be absolute, as for instance in the United Nations Security Council, whose permanent members ( China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ) can block any resolution.
Or it can be limited, as in the legislative process of the United States, where a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation.
A veto only gives शक्ति to रोकें changes, not to adopt them ( except for the rare `` amendatory veto '' ).
Thus a veto allows its holder to protect the status quo.
The concept of a veto body originated with the Roman consuls और tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could block a military or civil decision by the other ; any tribune had the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate.
Sulfur dioxide ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the chemical यौगिक with the formula.
It is a toxic gas with a pungent, irritating smell, that is released by volcanoes and in various industrial processes.
Since coal and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds, their combustion generates sulfur dioxide unless the sulfur compounds are removed before burning the fuel.
Further ऑक्सीकरण of SO2, usually in the presence of a catalyst such as NO2, forms H2SO4, and thus acid rain.
Sulfur dioxide emissions are also a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere.
दोनो of ये impacts हैं कारण लिये चिंता over the पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of ये fuels.
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '', `` weakness '', and `` serious '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability.
It is an असंक्राम्य विकार, in जिससे कमज़ोरी is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction, inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
Myasthenia is treated medically साथ acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, and, in selected cases, thymectomy.
The disease incidence is 3–30 मामले per million per year and rising as a result of increased awareness.
MG must be distinguished from congenital myasthenic syndromes that can present similar symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments.
Reflective twisted nematic liquid crystal display.
Polarizing filter film with a vertical axis to polarize light as it enters.
Glass substrate with ITO electrodes.
The shapes of these electrodes will determine the shapes that will appear when the LCD is turned ON.
लंबवत ridges etched on the surface are smooth.
Twisted nematic द्रव crystal.
Glass substrate साथ common electrode film ( ITO ) with horizontal ridges to line up with the horizontal filter.
Polarizing filter film with a आड़ा अक्ष to block/pass light.
परावर्तक सतह to भेजें लाइट वापस to दर्शक.
( In a backlit LCD, this layer is replaced with a light सोर्स. )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD ) is a flat panel display, electronic visual display, or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals.
Liquid crystals do नहीं emit light directly.
lcds हैं उपलब्धियाँ to display arbitrary images ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images which can be displayed or hidden, such as preset words, digits, and 7-segment displays as in a digital clock.
वे उपयोग the वही मौलिक technology, except that arbitrary images are made up of a large number of small pixels, while other displays have larger elements.
LCDs are used in a wide range of applications including computer monitors, televisions, यंत्र panels, वायुयान cockpit displays, and signage.
They are common in consumer devices such as video players, gaming devices, clocks, watches, calculators, and telephones, and have replaced कैथोड रे ट्यूब ( crt ) प्रदर्शक in most applications.
They are available in a wider range of screen sizes than CRT and plasma displays, and since they do not use phosphors, they do not suffer image burn-in.
LCDs are, however, susceptible to image persistence.
The LCD screen is more energy efficient and can be disposed of more safely than a crt.
Its low electrical power consumption enables it to be प्रयुक्त in battery -powered electronic equipment.
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of खण्ड भर with liquid crystals and arrayed in front of a light source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome.
द्रव crystals were first discovered in 1888.
By 2008, worldwide sales of टेलीविज़न with LCD screens exceeded annual sales of CRT units ; the CRT became obsolete for most purposes.
The Borgata होटल कसीनो और स्पा is a लक्ज़री होटल, कसीनो, और स्पा in अटलांटिक नगर, नई जर्सी, संयुक्त राज्य.
It is owned by Marina District Development, a joint venture between Boyd Gaming and a divesture trust established by MGM Resorts International.
The $ 1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 rooms and is the largest hotel in New Jersey.
The Borgata opened in July 2003 as a Las Vegas-style megaresort and is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic City.
A bottle of high potency b-complex vitamin supplement pills.
A vitamin ( or ) is an organic compound required by an सजीव as a vital nutrient in limited amounts.
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from the diet.
Thus, the term is conditional both on the हालातों and on the particular organism.
For example, ascorbic acid ( विटामिन c ) is a विटामिन लिये इंसानो, लकिन not for most other animals, and biotin and vitamin D are required in the human diet only in certain circumstances.
By convention, the term vitamin includes neither other essential nutrients, such as dietary minerals, essential fatty acids, or essential amino acids ( which are needed in larger amounts than विटामिन ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often.
Thirteen vitamins are universally recognized at present.
Vitamins are classified by their biological और रासायनिक कार्यकलाप, not their structure.
Thus, each `` vitamin '' refers to a number of vitamer यौगिकों that all show the biological activity associated with a particular vitamin.
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` generic descriptor '' title, such as `` vitamin A ``, which includes the compounds retinal, retinol, and four known carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the क्रियाशील form of the vitamin in the body, and are sometimes inter-convertible to one another, as well.
विटामिन have diverse biochemical functions.
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of mineral metabolism ( such as vitamin D ), or regulators of cell and tissue growth and differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ).
Others function as antioxidants ( e.g., vitamin E and sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest number of vitamins ( such as B complex vitamins ) function as precursors for एंजाइम cofactors, that help enzymes in their work as catalysts in metabolism.
In this role, vitamins may be tightly bound to enzymes as part of prosthetic groups : For example, biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids.
Vitamins may also be कम tightly बंधी to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable molecules that function to carry chemical groups or electrons between molecules.
For example, folic acid may carry methyl, formyl, and methylene groups in the कोशिका.
हालांकि ये भूमिकाएँ in assisting enzyme-substrate प्रतिक्रियाएँ हैं विटामिन ' best-known फलन, the अन्य विटामिन कृत्यों हैं बराबर महत्वपूर्ण.
Until the mid-1930s, when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold, vitamins were obtained solely through food intake, and changes in diet ( which, for example, could occur during a particular growing season ) usually greatly altered the प्रकार और amounts of vitamins ingested.
However, vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic और synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food supplements and additives, since the middle of the 20th century.
World Muslim population by percentage ( Pew Research Center, 2009 )
World मुस्लिम जनसांख्यिकी in millions
islam is the संसार 's दूसरी largest धर्म बाद christianity.
According to a 2010 पढ़ाई, islam has 1.62 billion adherents, making up over 23 % of the world population.
Islam is the predominant religion in the Middle East, in Sahel, in the Horn of Africa and northern Africa, and in some parts of Asia.
Large communities of Muslims are also found in China, the balkans, और रूस.
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe, for instance, Islam is the second largest religion after christianity, जहाँ it represents 6 % of the total population.
According to the Pew Research Center in 2010 there were 49 Muslim-majority countries.
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims live in South and southeast एशिया, साथ over 1 billion adherents.
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia, home to 12.7 % of the world 's Muslims, followed by पाकिस्तानी ( 11.0 % ), India ( 10.9 % ), and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of Muslims live in Arab countries.
In the Middle East, the non-Arab देशों of Turkey and Iran are the largest Muslim-majority countries ; in Africa, Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities.
A study conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 and released January 2011 found that there are 1.62 billion मुसलमान around the world.
The study found more Muslims in the United Kingdom than in Lebanon and more in China than in Syria.
Rhode Island ( or ), officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, is a state in the New England region of the United States.
Rhode Island is the smallest in area, the eighth least populous, but the second most densely populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey.
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and Massachusetts to the north and east, and it shares a water boundary with New York 's Long Island to the southwest.
Rhode Island was the first of the 13 original colonies to declare independence from British rule, declaring itself independent on May 4, 1776, two months before any other colony.
The State was also the पिछला of the thirteen original colonies to ratify the United States Constitution.
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` The Ocean State '', a reference to the राज्य 's भूगोल, since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14 % of its total area.
Its land area is, but its कुल क्षेत्रफल is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the United Arab Emirates, located भीतर the अमीर of the same name.
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of the पारसी गल्फ on the arabian प्रायद्वीप and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country.
It has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest land territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi.
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, the national capital, are the only two emirates to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the country 's विधानमंडल.
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's northern coastline and heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan area.
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a country or city-state and, in some cases, the UAE as a whole रै महरूम वर्णित as 'dubai '.
The earliest जिक्र of Dubai is in 1095 AD, and the earliest recorded settlement in the region dates from 1799.
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum bin Butti al-maktoum जब he persuaded around 800 members of his tribe of the Bani Yas, living in what was then the Second Saudi State and now part of Saudi Arabia, to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas.
It remained under the tribe 's control when the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in 1892 and joined the nascent United Arab Emirates upon independence in 1971 as the country 's second emirate.
Its strategic geographic location made the town an important trading hub and by the beginning of the 20th century, Dubai was already an important regional port.
Today, Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that has grown steadily to become a global city and a कारोबार and cultural hub of the Middle East and the Persian Gulf region.
Although Dubai 's economy was historically built on the oil industry, the emirate 's western-style model of business drives its economy with the main revenues now coming from tourism, real estate, and financial services.
दुबई रै recently attracted world attention through many innovative large construction projects and sports events.
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings, such as the world 's tallest Burj Khalifa, in addition to ambitious development projects including man-made islands, hotels, and some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world.
This increased attention रै भी highlighted labor and human rights issues concerning the city 's largely South Asian paid workforce.
Dubai 's property market experienced a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a result of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008.
However, Dubai has made a steady and gradual recovery with help coming from neighboring अमीरात.
the handful of new projects that are in the pipeline have been able to help Dubai real estate make a comeback.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the world, and the most expensive city in the Middle East, surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai has also been rated as one of the best places to live in the Middle East, including by US American global consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011.
The following is a list of colleges and विश्वविद्यालयों in the U.S. state of Illinois.
Surface of the Atlantic ocean meeting the Earth 's planetary boundary layer and क्षोभमण्डल.
Waves on an समंदर coast.
This animation uses Earth science data from a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to measure physical oceanography parameters such as समंदर currents, समंदर हवाएँ, समुद्र सतह height and sea surface temperature.
An ocean ( ; the World Ocean of classical antiquity ) is a body of saline water that composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere.
In the context of धरती, it refers to एक or सब of the major divisions of the planet 's World Ocean – they are, in descending order of area, the Pacific, Atlantic, Indian, Southern ( Antarctic ), and Arctic Oceans.
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably with `` ocean '', but strictly बोलना a समुद्र is a body of saline water ( possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
Earth is the only planet known to have an ocean ( or कोई विशाल amounts of open liquid water ).
Approximately 72 % of the ग्रह 's सतह ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline जल कि is customarily विभाजित into अनेक प्रिंसिपल महासागर और छोटी समंदर, साथ the समंदर covering लगभग 71 % of the धरती 's सतह.
In terms of the hydrosphere of the Earth, the समंदर contains 97 % of the Earth 's water.
Oceanographers have stated कि out of 97 %, only 5 % of the ocean as a whole on Earth has been explored.
Because it is the principal component of Earth 's जलमंडल, the world ocean is integral to all known life, forms part of the carbon cycle, and influences climate and weather patterns.
The total volume is approximately 1.3 billion cubic kilometres ( 310 million cu mi ) साथ an average depth of.
It is the habitat of 230,000 known प्रजाति, although much of the ocean 's depths remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two million marine species exist.
The origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown, but oceans are believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have been the impetus for the emergence of life.
Extraterrestrial oceans may be composed of a wide दायरा of elements and compounds.
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of Titan, although there is evidence for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System.
Early in their geologic histories, मंगल and Venus are theorized to have had large water oceans.
The Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third of the surface of Mars was once covered by water, though the water on Mars is no longer oceanic, and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus.
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point, so that water might exist in large quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice.
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the surface of many dwarf planets and natural satellites ; notably, the ocean of यूरोपा is believed to have over twice the जल आवाज़ of Earth.
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are also believed to possess liquid वायुमंडलीय layers of yet to be confirmed compositions.
Oceans may भी मौजूद on exoplanets and exomoons, including surface oceans of liquid water within a circumstellar habitable zone.
Ocean planets are a hypothetical type of planet with a surface completely covered with liquid.
Elvis Aaron Presley ( January 8, 1935 – August 16, 1977 ) was an American singer and actor.
A cultural icon, he is commonly known by the single name Elvis.
One of the most popular musicians of the 20th सदी, he is often referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King ''.
Born in tupelo, मिसिसिपी, Presley moved to Memphis, Tennessee, with his family at the age of 13.
He began his career there in 1954, working with Sun Records owner Sam Phillips, who wanted to bring the sound of African-American music to a wider audience.
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black, Presley थी the most important popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -driven fusion of country and rhythm and blues.
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom Parker, who went on to manage the singer लिये over two decades.
Presley 's first RCA सिंगल, `` Heartbreak Hotel ``, released in January 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of rock and roll with a series of network television appearances and chart-topping records.
His energized interpretations of songs, many from African-American sources, and his uninhibited performance स्टाइल बना उसे enormously popular—and controversial.
In November 1956, he made his film debut in Love Me Tender.
drafted into सैन्य service in 1958, Presley relaunched his recording career two years later with some of his most commercially successful work.
He staged few concerts however, and guided by Parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making Hollywood movies and soundtrack albums, most of them critically derided.
in 1968, बाद सात सालो दूर इससे the स्टेज, he लौटे to सजीव प्रदर्शन in a मनाये वापसी टेलीविज़न खास कि led to an विस्तारित लास वेगास कॉन्सर्ट रेसिडेंसी और a स्ट्रिंग of लाभप्रद टुर.
In 1973 Presley मंचन the first concert broadcast globally via satellite, Aloha from Hawaii.
Prescription drug गाली severely deteriorated his health, and he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42.
Presley is regarded as one of the most important figures of 20th-century popular culture.
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide success encompassing many genres, including country, pop ballads, gospel, and blues.
He is the best-selling solo artist in the history of लोकप्रिय music.
Nominated for 14 प्रतिस्पर्धी Grammys, he won three, and received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award at age 36.
He has been inducted into multiple music हॉल of fame.
A glass of रूट beer with foam
Root beer is a carbonated, sweetened beverage, originally made using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the bark of a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor.
Root beer, popularized in North America, comes in two forms : alcoholic और नरम drink.
The historical root beer was analogous to small beer in that the process provided a drink with a very low alcohol content.
Although roots are used as the source of many soft पेय throughout the world, often different names are used.
Fluorescent minerals emit visible लाइट जब exposed to ultraviolet light
प्रतिदीप्ति is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट by a पदार्थ कि रै अवशोषित लाइट or अन्य इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण.
It is a form of संदीप्ति.
In most cases, the emitted light has a longer wavelength, and therefore lower energy, than the absorbed radiation.
However, when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense, it is possible for one electron to absorb two photons ; this two-photon absorption can lead to emission of radiation having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation.
The emitted radiation may also be of the same wavelength as the अवशोषित radiation, termed `` resonance fluorescence ''.
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur when the absorbed radiation is in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum, and thus invisible to the human eye, and the emitted light is in the visible region.
Fluorescence has many practical applications, including mineralogy, gemology, chemical sensors ( fluorescence spectroscopy ), fluorescent labelling, dyes, biological detectors, and, most commonly, fluorescent lamps.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside of a formal setting.
However, perhaps because of the informal in the title, the precise definition of informal logic is a matter of some dispute.
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define informal logic as `` a शाखा of logic whose task is to develop non-formal standards, criteria, procedures for the analysis, interpretation, evaluation, criticism and construction of argumentation. ''
This definition reflects what had been implicit in their practice and what others यहूद doing in their informal logic texts.
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies, critical thinking, the Thinking Skills Movement and the interdisciplinary inquiry known as argumentation theory.
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label `` informal logic '' covers a `` collection of normative approaches to the study of reasoning in ordinary language that remain करीब to the practice of argumentation than formal logic. ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great अवसाद began in August of 1929, when the United States economy first went into an economic recession.
Although the country spent two months with declining GDP, it was not until the Wall Street क्रैश of अक्तूबर, 1929 that the effects of a declining economy were felt, and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued.
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment, poverty, low profits, deflation, plunging farm incomes, and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement.
Although इसके कल्याणकारी हैं स्टिल अनिश्चित और विवादास्पद, the जाल प्रभाव थी a अचानक और सामान्य घाटा of विश्वास in the आर्थिक भविष्य.
The usual explanations include numerous factors, especially high consumer debt, ill-regulated markets that permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors, and the lack of high-growth new industries, all interacting to create a downward economic spiral of reduced spending, falling confidence, and lowered production.
Industries that suffered the सबसे शामिल निर्माण, कृषि as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland, shipping, mining, and logging as well as durable goods like automobiles and appliances that could be postponed.
The economy reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33 ; then came four years of very rapid growth until 1937, when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment.
The Depression caused प्रमुख राजनैतिक changes in America.
Three years into the depression, Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 presidential election to Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan, the New Deal, instituted unprecedented programs लिये राहत, रिकवरी and reform, and brought about a major realignment of American politics.
The Depression also resulted in an increase of emigration of people to other countries for the first time in American history.
For example, some immigrants went back to their native countries, and some native US citizens went to Canada, Australia, and South Africa.
It also resulted in the mass migration of people from badly hit areas in the Great Plains and the South to places such as California and the North, respectively ( see Okies and the Great Migration of African Americans ).
Racial तनाव भी increased during this time.
By the 1940s immigration had returned back to normal, और emigration declined.
A well-known example of an emigrant was Frank McCourt, who went to Ireland, as recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes.
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of economics and resulted in many परिवर्तन in कैसा the सरकारी dealt with economic downturns, such as the use of stimulus packages, Keynesian economics, and Social Security.
It also shaped modern American literature, resulting in famous novels such as John Steinbeck 's `` The Grapes of Wrath `` and `` Of Mice and Men ``.
The Great अवसाद of the 1930s started with the stock market crash of October 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the Republic of Turkey, is a transcontinental country, located mostly on Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe.
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria to the northwest ; Greece to the west ; Georgia to the northeast ; Armenia, Iran and the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the Aegean Sea is to the west ; and the Black Sea is to the north.
The Sea of Marmara, the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which साथ form the Turkish Straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia ; they also separate Europe and Asia.
Turkey 's location at the crossroads of Europe and Asia makes it a country of significant geostrategic importance.
The country 's official language is Turkish, a Turkic language, which is spoken by approximately 85 % of the population as mother tongue.
The most numerous ethnic group is the Turks, who constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook.
kurds हैं the largest जातीय अल्पसंख्यक और, according to the वही सोर्स, क्रमांक around 18 % of the जनसांख्यिकी जबकि अन्य जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों हैं अनुमानित to be at 7–12 %.
The vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी is मुस्लिम.
The area now called Turkey has been inhabited since the paleolithic, including various Ancient Anatolian civilizations and Thracian peoples.
After Alexander the ग्रेट 's conquest, the क्षेत्रफल थी hellenized, जिससे जारी with the Roman rule and the transition into the Byzantine Empire.
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century, starting the process of Turkification, which was greatly accelerated by the Seljuk victory over the byzantines at the बैटल of Manzikert in 1071.
The Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks.
Starting from the late 13th century, the Ottoman beylik united Anatolia and created an empire encompassing much of Southeastern Europe, Western Asia and North Africa.
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following its defeat in World War I, parts of it were occupied by the विजयी allies.
A cadre of young military officers, led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his colleagues, organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they established the modern Republic of Turkey, with Atatürk as its first president.
Turkey is a democratic, secular, unitary, constitutional republic with a diverse cultural heritage.
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West through membership in organisations such as the Council of Europe, NATO, OECD, OSCE and the G-20 major economies.
Turkey began full membership negotiations with the European Union in 2005, having been an associate member of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered close सांस्कृतिक, राजनैतिक और आर्थिक संबंध साथ the मध्य ईस्ट, काकेशस, the turkic राज्य of सेंट्रल एशिया और the अफ़्रीकी देशों through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the turkic परिषद, संयुक्त प्रशासन of turkic कला और संस्कृति, संगठन of इस्लामी सहयोग और the आर्थिक सहयोग संगठन.
Turkey 's growing अर्थव्यवस्था और राजनयिक initiatives have led to its recognition as a regional power.
तुर्कों is the world 's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP and the 16th largest by purchasing power parity.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda Mae Brown, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, The Player, Made in America, How Stella Got Her Groove Back, Girl, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash, and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been nominated लिये 13 Emmy Awards for her work in television.
She was co-producer of the popular game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004.
She has been the मॉडरेटर of the daytime talk show The View since 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two Daytime Emmys, two Golden ग्लोब्स, a Tony ( for production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, four People 's Choice Awards, and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is one of the few entertainers who have won an Emmy, Grammy, ऑस्कर, and Tony Award.
Augusta is a consolidated city in the U.S. state of Georgia, located at the पतन लकीर of the savannah नदी, at the सिर of its navigable portion.
As of the 2010 census, the Augusta– Richmond County population was 195,844 not counting the unconsolidated cities of Hephzibah and Blythe.
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area, which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877, making it both the second-largest city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta.
It is the 116th-largest city in the United राज्य.
Internationally, Augusta is best known for hosting The Masters Tournament in golf each spring.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट disc which contains data.
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory ``.
Computers can read CD-ROMs, but can not write on them.
cd-roms हैं popularly प्रयुक्त to वितरित कंप्यूटर तन्त्र, सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया अनुप्रयोग, हालांकि कोई आंकड़ा can be भंडारित ( up to the क्षमता सीमा of a डिस्क ).
कुछ cds, पुकारा उन्नत cds, थाम दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी, जबकि आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as तन्त्र or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is तभी usable on a कंप्यूटर ( ऐसे as आईएसओ 9660 स्वरूप pc cd-roms ).
The Yellow Book is the technical मानक कि defines the format of CD-ROMs.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats, the Yellow Book, created by Sony and Philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the format to hold any form of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks before 1986, and known colloquially as the Hawks ) हैं a पेशेवर ice hockey team based in Chicago, Illinois.
They are members of the Central Division of the Western सम्मेलन of the नेशनल Hockey League ( NHL ).
They have जीती चार स्टेनली Cup championships since their founding in 1926, most recently in 2009–10.
The Blackhawks are one of the Original Six NHL teams, along with the डेट्रॉयट रेड Wings, Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins and New York Rangers.
Since the Blackhawks have played their home games at the United Center after having spent 65 years playing at Chicago Stadium.
Lent celebrants carrying out a street procession दौरान Holy Week.
The violet color is प्रायः associated with penance and detachment.
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in other Catholic countries, sometimes associated with mortification of the flesh.
Granada, निकारागुआ.
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many Christian denominations, lasting for a period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday.
In the general latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent is taken to run from Ash Wednesday to Maundy Thursday ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve.
In the Catholic Church, Lent lasts until Holy Thursday, जबकि अन्य denominations run until Easter Eve.
The traditional purpose of Lent is the preparation of the believer through prayer, penance, तौबा, almsgiving, and self-denial.
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of Holy Week, marking the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus, which recalls the events of the Bible when Jesus is crucified on Good Friday, which then culminates in the celebration on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.
During Lent, many of the faithful commit to fasting or giving up certain प्रकार of luxuries as a form of penitence.
The Stations of the Cross, a devotional commemoration of Christ 's carrying the Cross and of his execution, are often observed.
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove flowers from their altars, while crucifixes, religious statues, and other elaborate religious symbols are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain pious Catholic countries, some adherents mark the season with the traditional abstention from the consumption of meat.
In some countries, grand religious processions and cultural customs are observed, and the faithful attempt to visit seven churches दौरान पावन सप्ताह in सम्मान of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary.
Lent is traditionally described as lasting for forty days, in commemoration of the forty days which, according to the Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke, Jesus spent fasting in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry, where he endured temptation by the Devil.
however, different Christian denominations calculate the forty days of Lent differently.
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of Lent ; thus the period from Ash Wednesday until Easter consists of 40 days when the Sundays are excluded.
However in the Roman Catholic Church Lent is now taken to end on Holy Thursday rather than Easter Eve, and hence lasts 38 दिनों excluding sundays, or 44 days in total.
This इवेंट, साथ साथ इसके परहेज़गारों customs are observed by Catholics, Lutherans, Methodists, Presbyterians, and Anglicans.
Location of Chernobyl nuclear शक्ति plant
The abandoned city of pripyat with Chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned आवास blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ), which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere, which spread over much of the पश्चिमी ussr and Europe.
The chernobyl विपत्ति is widely माना to have महरूम the worst नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र दुर्घटना in इतिहास, और is एक of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been disputed, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities हैं स्टिल होने accounted लिये.
In grammar, a subject complement is a predicative expression that follows a linking verb ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the subject of the वाक्य by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
In the former case, a renaming noun phrase ऐसे as a noun or pronoun is called a predicative nominal.
An adjective following the copula and describing the विषय is called a predicative adjective.
In either case the predicative complement in effect mirrors the subject.
विषय complements हैं प्रयुक्त साथ a छोटी क्लास of क्रियाएँ पुकारा linking क्रियाएँ or copula, of जिससे be is the सबसे आम.
Since copula हैं stative verbs, subject complements are not affected by any action of the verb.
Subject complements are typically not clause arguments, nor are they clause adjuncts.
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards, many significant records have been set.
This पेज तभी includes the competitive awards won by various artists.
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards, Trustees Awards, तकनीकी पुरस्कार or लेजेंड Awards.
The page however does include other non-performance सम्बन्धित Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17, 1972 ), better known by his stage name Eminem ( stylized as EMINƎM ) and by his alter ego Slim Shady, is an American rapper, record producer, songwriter and actor.
Eminem, along with his solo career, is a सदस्य of his group D12, and also one half of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil, with Royce da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is one of the best-selling artists in the world and is the best-selling artist of the 2000s.
He has been listed and ranked as one of the greatest artists of all time by many magazines, including Rolling Stone magazine which ranked him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
The same magazine declared him The किंग of Hip Hop.
सहित उसके कार्य with D12 and Bad Meets Evil, Eminem has achieved ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200.
He has sold more than 100 million records worldwide, including 42 million tracks and 49.1 million albums in the United States.
As an underground rapper Eminem released his debut solo एल्बम, Infinite in 1996.
The एल्बम थी a critical and commercial failure.
He gained mainstream popularity in 1999 after the release of his major-label debut एल्बम the पतला छायादार LP.
The LP also earned Eminem his first Grammy Award for बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम.
His next two records The Marshall Mathers LP, and The Eminem Show, also won Best Rap Album Grammy Awards, making Eminem the first artist to win Best Rap Album for three consecutive LPs.
This was followed by another studio release in 2004 titled Encore.
Eminem then went on hiatus after touring in 2005.
He released his first album in five years titled Relapse, on May 15, 2009.
In 2010, Eminem released his seventh studio album Recovery.
Recovery was an international success and was named the best selling album of 2010 worldwide, joining The Eminem Show, which was the best seller of 2002.
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both Relapse and Recovery, giving him a total of 13 Grammys in his career.
Eminem has opened other ventures, including his own record label Shady Records with his manager Paul Rosenberg.
He also has उसके own radio channel, Shade 45 on Sirius XM Radio.
Eminem began an acting career in 2002, when he starred in the hip hop drama film 8 Mile.
He won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, becoming the पहला रैप कलाकार ever to win the award.
He has also made cameo appearances in The Wash ( 2001 ), Funny People ( 2009 ) and the television series Entourage.
The acre is a unit of area used in the इम्पीरियल and U.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller than an American फ़ुटबॉल फ़ील्ड.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable exceptions include the United States, Australia, Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to some extent, in Canada.
The international symbol of the acre is ac, and is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ today is the international acre.
In the United States both the international acre and the slightly अलग us सर्वेक्षण acre are in use.
The most common use of the acre is to measure tracts of land.
One international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the Middle Ages, an acre was the amount of land कि could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of Mass led to many new findings in the 19th century.
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions and John Dalton 's atomic theory branched from the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier.
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments revealed that combustion involved oxygen rather than कया थी previously thought to be phlogiston.
The law of conservation of mass, or principle of mass conservation, states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy ( both of which have mass ), the mass of the system must remain constant over समय, as प्रणाली द्रव्यमान can not change quantity if it is not added or removed.
Hence, the quantity of mass is `` conserved '' over time.
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed, although it may be rearranged in space, or the entities संबद्ध साथ it may be changed in form, as for example when light or physical work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed.
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical reaction, nuclear प्रतिक्रिया, or radioactive decay in an isolated system, the mass of the reactants or starting material must equal the mass of the products.
The concept of mass conservation is widely used in many fields such as chemistry, mechanics, and fluid dynamics.
Historically, mass conservation was discovered in chemical reactions by Antoine Lavoisier in the late 18th century, and was of crucial importance in the प्रगति from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry.
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high approximation that it failed only for the high energies treated by the बाद refinements of relativity theory, but otherwise remains useful and sufficiently accurate for most chemical calculations, even in modern practice.
In special relativity, needed for सटीकता जब विशाल उर्जा हस्तांतरण between प्रणालियों is शामिल, the अंतर between thermodynamically बंद और पृथक प्रणालियों becomes महत्वपूर्ण, चूंकि संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान is सख्ती और perfectly upheld तभी लिये so-called पृथक प्रणालियों, i.e. those completely पृथक इससे सब exchanges साथ the पर्यावरण.
In this circumstance, the mass-energy equivalence theorem states that mass conservation is समतुल्य to कुल उर्जा conservation, which is the first law of thermodynamics.
By contrast, for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e., one which is closed to exchanges of matter, but open to exchanges of non-material energy, ऐसे as ऊष्मा और कार्य, साथ the परिवेश ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved.
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory, although the बदलें is प्रायः छोटी, चूंकि अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of such energy ( by comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ).
In special relativity, mass is not converted to energy, since energy in all of its forms always retains its equivalent amount of mass throughout any transformation or translocation into, or out of, a system.
However, certain types of matter ( a अलग अवधारणा ) may be परिवर्तित to energy, so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the process.
however, if ऐसे उर्जा is removed इससे प्रणालियों, वे जरूर खोना the द्रव्यमान कि is संबद्ध साथ it.
In general relativity, mass ( and energy ) conservation in expanding volumes of space is a complex concept, subject to different परिभाषाएं, and neither mass nor energy is as strictly and simply conserved as is the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space.
For a discussion, see mass in सामान्य आपेक्षिकता.
A pig is any of the animals in the genus Sus, within the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the domestic pig, its ancestor the wild boar, and several other wild relatives.
Young and small pigs are known as piglets.
Pigs are omnivores and are highly social and बुद्धिमान animals.
8-inch, -inch, and -inch फ्लॉपी disks
8-inch, -inch ( full height ), and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' magnetic material, removed from its housing
A floppy disk, or diskette, is a disk storage medium composed of a disk of thin and flexible magnetic storage medium, sealed in a rectangular plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles.
They are read और लिखा by a फ्लॉपी disk drive ( FDD ).
Floppy disks, initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes, were a ubiquitous form of data storage and exchange from the mid-1970s well into the first decade of the 21st century.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured साथ floppy drive support ; `` floppies could be used as an external USB drive, but ``, 8 ``, and non-standard drives could only be handled by old equipment.
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses, especially with legacy industrial computer equipment, they have been superseded by data storage methods with much greater capacity, ऐसे as usb फ्लैश ड्राइव, पोर्टेबल बाह्य hard disk drives, optical discs, memory cards, and computer networks.
an एनिमेटेड आरेख of a कटर
In baseball, a cutter, or cut fastball, is a type of fastball which ब्रेक slightly toward the pitcher 's glove side as it reaches home plate.
This pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball, as it is usually thrown faster than a slider but with more motion than a typical fastball.
Some pitchers use a कटर as a way to prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs.
A common technique प्रयुक्त to throw a cutter is to use a four-seam fastball grip with the baseball set slightly off center in the hand.
When a batter is able to hit a cutter pitch, it often results in soft contact and an easy out, due to the pitch 's movement keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot.
The cutter is typically 2–5 mph slower than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball.
In 2010, the average pitch classified as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher was 88.6 mph ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph.
`` What It Takes '' is a power ballad by American hard rock बैंड Aerosmith.
It was written by स्टीवन टायलर, Joe Perry, and Desmond Child.
It was released in 1990 as the third single from Aerosmith 's critically and commercially successful 1989 album Pump.
In the वीडियो the Making of Pump, A & R man John Kalodner described the song as `` a masterpiece ''.
During live performances, Tyler sings the first verse a cappella and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus.
The album version of the song is followed by an untitled hidden track.
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble group representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus, found at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an ancient रोमन mosaic of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek :, ), also known by the Roman name Ulysses ( ; ), was a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the ओडिसी.
Odysseus also plays a key role in Homer 's Iliad and other works in that same Epic Cycle.
Husband of पेनेलोप, पिता of telemachus, और बेटे of laërtes ( or sisyphus ) और anticlea, odysseus is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके brilliance, छल, और versatility ( polytropos ), और is hence ज्ञात by the epithet odysseus the cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning प्रज्ञा `` ).
He is most famous for the ten eventful years he took to return home after the decade-long Trojan War and his प्रसिद्ध trojan घोड़ा ploy to कैप्चर the city of Troy.
Erie is a Statutory Town in Boulder and Weld counties in the u.S. राज्य of Colorado.
The जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135 और थी अंकित as 6,291 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25 for easy access to I-70, Denver International Airport and Colorado 's entire Front Range.
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles, extending from the north side of State Highway 52 south to State Highway 7, and between US 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east.
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from Denver International Airport, 25 minutes to Denver and 20 minutes from Boulder.
The Board of Trustees serves as the legislative and governing body of the Town of erie और is जिम्मेदार for establishing Town policies and goals.
The Board has the authority to adopt laws, ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the Town, and by ordinance may enter into contracts or intergovernmental agreements to furnish, receive services or to provide for cooperative service delivery.
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, the Town Administrator is the chief operating and administrative officer of the Town and is responsible for providing professional leadership in the administration and execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board.
The mission of the Erie Police विभाग is to communicate और कार्य साथ the community to maintain a safe environment, prevent crime and enforce the law, while protecting the rights of all.
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is owned and operated by the Town of Erie and is strategically located in the Denver-Boulder metropolitan area on Colorado Highway 7, a little over three miles west of Interstate 25.
The main runway is concrete paved and 4,700 feet long.
The is a home video game console उत्पादित by Sony Computer Entertainment.
It is the successor to the PlayStation 2, as part of the PlayStation series.
The PlayStation 3 competes with Microsoft 's Xbox 360 and Nintendo 's Wii as भाग of the सातवाँ पीढी of video game consoles.
It was first released on November 11, 2006, in जापानी, with international markets following shortly thereafter.
The console was first officially घोषित at E3 2005.
originally नियत लिये a वसन्त 2006 रिलीज तिथि, it थी विलम्बित अनेक टाइम्स जबतक आखिरकार hitting स्टोर्स at the समाप्त of the साल.
It was the first and currently only console to use Blu-ray Disc as its primary storage मीडियम.
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service, the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल, and its connectivity with the PlayStation Portable and PlayStation Vita, In September 2009 the updated PlayStation 3 Slim, was released.
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the original version, although it lacks PlayStation 2 backwards compatibility ( removed on later original models ), but notably प्रदर्शित a re-designed logo and marketing design.
As of November 4, 2012, 70 million PlayStation 3s have been sold worldwide.
इसके successor, प्लेस्टेशन 4, is नियत लिये a q4 2013 रिलीज.
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, 1st Marqués de Dalí de Pubol ( May 11, 1904January 23, 1989 ), known as Salvador Dalí ( ), was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres, Spain.
dalí थी a skilled draftsman, बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the striking और विचित्र बिंब in उसके surrealist कार्य.
His painterly skills are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters.
His best-known work, the हठ of Memory, was completed in 1931.
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film, sculpture, and photography, in collaboration with a range of artists in a variety of media.
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my passion for luxury and my love of oriental clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '', claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors.
dalí थी अत्यधिक कल्पनाशील, और भी enjoyed indulging in असामान्य और वैभवशाली बर्ताव.
उसके eccentric manner और attention-grabbing पब्लिक क्रियाएँ sometimes खींचा अधिक ध्यान than उसके कलाकृति, to the dismay of those जो आयोजित उसके कार्य in ऊँची esteem, और to the irritation of his critics.
Philosopher प्लेटो by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture, using methods that are primarily analytical, critical, or speculative, और having a significant ऐतिहासिक तत्व, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.
The humanities include ancient and आधुनिक languages, literature, philosophy, religion, and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre.
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences include history, anthropology, क्षेत्रफल अध्ययन, communication studies, cultural studies, law, economics and linguistics.
विद्वानों working in the humanities are sometimes described as `` humanists ''.
However, that term also describes the philosophical position of humanism, which some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject.
Some secondary schools offer humanities classes, usually consisting of English literature, global studies, and art.
Human disciplines like history, cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject matters to which the experimental method does not apply, and they have access instead to the comparative method and comparative research.
The 2005 Blue Room Christmas Tree
The White House Christmas Tree, also ज्ञात as the ब्लू रूम क्रिसमस पेड़, is the official indoor Christmas tree at the residence of the President of the United States, the White House.
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( there are varying claims as to the exact year ) and since 1961 the tree has had a themed motif at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States.
The President of the United States of America ( potus ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive, diplomatic, regulatory, and judicial officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to ग्रान्ट संघीय pardons and reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president, despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is frequently वर्णित as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the United States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third पूरा term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as president, or acting president, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, बराक Obama became the 44th and current president.
On November 6, 2012, he was re-elected और is अनुसूचित to serve until January 20, 2017.
Senses are physiological capacities of organisms that provide data for perception.
The senses and their operation, classification, and theory are overlapping topics studied by a variety of fields, most notably neuroscience, cognitive psychology ( or संज्ञानात्मक विज्ञान ), और दर्शनशास्त्र of perception.
The nervous system has a specific sensory system or organ, dedicated to each sense.
Humans have a multitude of senses.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), hearing ( audioception ), taste ( gustaoception ), smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ), and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized.
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists, including temperature ( thermoception ), kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ), pain ( nociception ), balance ( equilibrioception ), त्वरण ( kinesthesioception ), और विभिन्न आतंरिक stimuli ( e.g. the अलग chemoreceptors for detecting salt and carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood ), only a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves.
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some debate, leading to difficulties in defining what exactly a sense is.
Animals also have receptors to sense the world around them, with degrees of capability varying greatly between प्रजाति.
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of smell, while some animals may lack one or more of the traditional five senses.
कुछ animals may also intake and interpret sensory stimuli in very different ways.
Some species of animals are able to sense the world in a way that humans can not, with some प्रजाति समर्थ to sense electrical and magnetic fields, and detect water pressure and currents.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among सब अन्य groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except लिये अंटार्कटिक, and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in कि the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
नापसंद कीट, मकड़ियों do नहीं have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as सब उनके ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by हाइड्रोलिक pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in size, आकार और the amount of sticky thread used.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks इससे, और हैं बहुत समान to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern spiders, Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic period, पहले.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all other known species are predators, mostly preying on कीट और on अन्य spiders, although a few large species also take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it with sticky bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have acute vision, and hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize their food by बाढ़ it साथ digestive एंजाइमों and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females.
Males of most species survive a few matings, limited mainly by their short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of eggs.
Females of many species care for their young, for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of प्रजाति हैं सोशल, भवन communal webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the widow spiders, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most दो सालो, tarantulas और अन्य mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few प्रजाति is खतरनाक to humans, scientists are now researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials, and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Grey 's Anatomy is an American television चिकित्सा drama that premiered on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ), as a mid-season replacement on March 27, 2005.
The series has aired नौ seasons, and focuses on the fictional lives of surgical interns and residents as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors, while trying to maintain personal lives.
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes, who serves as an executive producer, along with Betsy Beers, Mark Gordon, Krista Vernoff, Rob Corn, Mark Wilding, and Allan Heinberg.
The series was created to be racially विविध, utilizing a color-blind casting technique.
it is primarily filmed in Los Angeles, California.
The series ' समर्थक is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ), who originally is accepted into the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital.
Meredith is assigned to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ), along with Dr. Cristina Yang ( Sandra Oh ), Dr. George O'Malley ( T. R. Knight ), Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ), and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following O'Malley 's death and Stevens ' departure, the hospital 's merger with Mercy West brings in Dr. Jackson Avery ( Jesse Williams ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ), in the sixth season.
The surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James Pickens, Jr. ), who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ), and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ).
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season, और is replaced by Dr. Erica Hahn ( Brooke Smith ), who leaves the show during the fifth season, and later Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ), who departs at the end of the eighth season.
Introduced in the second season is Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ), who leaves the show at the end of the third season, in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama Private Practice.
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) और dr. चिह्नित Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the show in the second season, while the latter dies in the premiere of the ninth season.
Meredith 's half-sister, Dr. Lexie Grey ( Chyler Leigh ), appears from season three और मरता at the end of season eight.
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw ) is given series regular status at the beginning of the sixth season.
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated drama in the key 18–49 demographic.
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the United States, Grey 's Anatomy has been well received by critics.
Considered an impact on culture, the series has प्राप्त numerous पुरस्कार, और रै also been included in various critics ' top ten lists.
The show has produced several specials, as well as distributed all seasons to DVD, and released a collection of merchandise.
In 2012, धूसर 's anatomy was named the fifth-highest revenue earning show, in terms of advertising per half-hour.
On May 11, 2012, the series was renewed for a ninth season, which premiered on September 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental विकार characterized by a breakdown of thought processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses.
Common symptoms include auditory hallucinations, paranoid or bizarre delusions, or disorganized speech and thinking, and it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in young adulthood, साथ a वैश्विक lifetime prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is based on observed behavior and the रोगी 's reported experiences.
Genetics, early environment, neurobiology, and psychological and social processes appear to be important contributory factors ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms.
Current research is focused on the role of neurobiology, although no सिंगल isolated organic cause has been found.
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the diagnosis represents a single disorder or a number of discrete syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek roots skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to split '' ) and phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` mind '' ), schizophrenia does not imply a `` split personality '', or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception.
Rather, the term means a `` splitting of mental functions '', because of the symptomatic प्रस्तुतीकरण of the illness.
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic medication, which primarily दबा dopamine ( और sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
मनोचिकित्सा और वोकेशनल and social rehabilitation are also important in treatment.
In more serious cases—where there is risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may be necessary, although हॉस्पिटल stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were.
The disorder is thought mainly to affect cognition, but it also usually contributes to chronic समस्याएं with behavior and emotion.
People साथ schizophrenia are likely to have additional ( comorbid ) conditions, including major depression and anxiety disorders ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 %.
Social problems, such as long-term unemployment, poverty, and homelessness हैं आम.
The average life expectancy of people with the disorder is 12 to 15 years less than those without, the result of increased physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ).
Paul लेस्ली snider ( April 15, 1951–August 14, 1980 ) was the estranged husband and manager of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten, whom he murdered before killing himself the same day.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of these were used as source material for a combined एपिक in अक्कादी.
This first combined epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th सदी bc and is titled after its incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
तभी a few fragments of it have survived.
the बाद `` मानक babylonian '' संस्करण तिथियाँ इससे the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` he जो देखी the Deep '' ).
Fragments of लगभग two thirds of this longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
Some of the best copies were discovered in the library ruins of the 7th-century bc Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a दोस्ती between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they journey to the Cedar Mountain to शिकस्त humbaba, इसके monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven, which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these actions, the gods sentence enkidu to death.
The second half of the epic focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In अनुक्रम to learn the secret of eternal life, Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey.
He learns that `` The life that you are seeking you will never find.
When the gods created man they allotted to him death, but life they retained in उनके अपना keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death, because of his great building projects, and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has महरूम अनूदित into अनेक अलग languages, and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A eukaryote ( or ) is an organism whose cells contain complex structures enclosed within membranes.
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota.
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus, or nuclear envelope, within which the genetic material is carried.
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which comes from the Greek ( eu, `` good '' ) and ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ).
Most eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus.
All large complex organisms are eukaryotes, including animals, plants and fungi.
The group also includes many एककोशिकीय organisms.
Cell division in eukaryotes is अलग इससे that in organisms without a nucleus ( Prokaryote ).
It involves separating the duplicated गुणसूत्रों, through movements directed by microtubules.
There are two types of division processes.
In mitosis, one कोशिका divides to produce two genetically identical cells.
In meiosis, which is required in यौन जनन, एक द्विगुणित कोशिका ( having दो उदाहरण of प्रत्येक chromosome, एक इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) undergoes recombination of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों, और तब दो चरण of कोशिका प्रभाग, resulting in चार अगुणित कोशिकाएं ( गैमीट ).
Each gamete has just one complement of chromosomes, each a unique mix of the corresponding pair of parental chromosomes.
Eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, and so makes up one of the three domains of life.
the दो अन्य डोमेन, जीवाणु और आर्किया, हैं prokaryotes और have none of the ऊपर सुविधाएँ.
Eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living things ; even in a human body there are 10 टाइम्स more microbes than human cells.
However, due to their much larger आकार उनके सामूहिक worldwide biomass is estimated at about equal to that of prokaryotes.
They are considered to have पहला विकसित approximately 1.6–2.1 billion years ago.
The use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud पीड़ितों or to otherwise take advantage of them, for example by stealing personal information, which can even lead to identity theft.
A very common form of Internet fraud is the distribution of rogue security software.
Internet सेवाएं can be प्रयुक्त to उपस्थित बेईमान solicitations to prospective पीड़ितों, to conduct बेईमान ट्रांजेक्शन, or to संचारण the proceeds of धोखाधड़ी to वित्तीय संस्थानों or to अन्य कनेक्ट साथ the योजना.
Internet fraud can occur in chat rooms, email, संदेश फलक, or on websites.
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led सुरक्षा मिशन in अफगानिस्तान that was established by the United Nations Security Council in December 2001 by Resolution 1386, as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement.
Its main purpose is to ट्रैन the अफगान नेशनल सुरक्षा Forces ( ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan in rebuilding key government institutions but is also engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups.
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul and surrounding areas from the Taliban, al Qaeda and factional warlords, so as to allow for the establishment of the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai.
In October 2003, the UN Security Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF mission throughout Afghanistan, and ISAF subsequently expanded the mission in four main stages over the whole of the country.
From 2006 to 2011, ISAF had been involved in increasingly more intensive कॉम्बैट operations in southern and eastern Afghanistan.
Troop contributors include from the United States, United Kingdom, NATO member states and a number of other देशों.
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly, साथ the संयुक्त राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, और कनाडा sustaining the majority of casualties in intensive combat operations, with other contributors sustaining significantly less.
As of early 2010, there were at least 700 military bases inside Afghanistan but more were expected to be built in the coming years.
परिचय 400 of these were used by American‐led NATO forces and 300 by ANSF.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca plant.
The name comes from `` coca '' और the alkaloid suffix -ine, forming cocaine.
It is a stimulant, an appetite suppressant, and a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, cocaine acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, also known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ).
It is addictive because of its effect on the mesolimbic reward pathway.
Unlike most molecules, कोका रै pockets with both high hydrophilic and lipophilic efficiency, violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
This causes it to cross the blood–brain barrier far better than other psychoactive chemicals and may even induce blood-brain barrier breakdown.
It is illegal to possess, produce, or distribute cocaine for non-medicinal and non-government-sanctioned purposes in almost every country.
Whole beef tri-tip rump, roasted medium rare
the tri-tip is a cut of beef from the bottom sirloin primal cut.
It is a small triangular muscle, usually 1.5 to 2.5 lbs. ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef.
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the connective tissue covering the quadriceps femoris, also called quadriceps extensor, a group of four muscles which in turn insert in the patella, or knee cap of the animal.
Willmar is a city in, and the काउंटी सीट of, Kandiyohi County, Minnesota, United States.
The population was 19,610 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Willmar has been आबंटित ZIP code 56201 by the United States Postal Service.
U.S. रूट 12 और 71 and Minnesota State Highways 23 and 40 are four of the main routes in the city.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives ( or Speaker of the House ) is the presiding officer of the chamber.
The office was established in 1789 by Article I, Section 2 of the United राज्य संविधान, which states in part, `` The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker... ''
The current Speaker is John Boehner, a Republican who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district.
The Constitution does not require that the Speaker be a Member of Congress, but no non-member has ever been elected to the office.
The Speaker is second in the United States presidential line of उत्तराधिकार, after the Vice President and ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate.
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments, in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan, in the United States the Speaker of the House is a leadership position and the office-holder actively works to set the majority party 's legislative agenda.
The Speaker usually does not personally preside over debates, instead delegating the duty to members of the House from the majority party.
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party, the Speaker also performs administrative and procedural functions, and represents his or her Congressional district.
A bicycle frame is the main component of a bicycle, on to जिससे पहियों और अन्य components are fitted.
The modern and most common frame design for an upright bicycle is based on the safety bicycle, and consists of two triangles, a main triangle and a paired rear triangle.
This is known as the diamond फ़्रेम.
Frames are जरूरी to be strong, stiff and light, which they do by combining different materials and shapes.
`` Simple gravity pendulum '' model assumes no friction or air प्रतिरोध.
An exemplar animation of a लोलक प्रर्दशित the velocity and acceleration vectors
A लोलक is a weight suspended from a so that it can swing freely.
When a pendulum is displaced sideways from its resting equilibrium position, it is subject to a restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it वापस toward the संतुलन position.
When released, the restoring force संयुक्त with the pendulum 's mass causes it to oscillate about the equilibrium position, swinging back and forth.
The time for one complete साईकिल, a बाएँ झूले and a right swing, is called the period.
A pendulum swings साथ a specific period which depends ( mainly ) on its length.
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the regular motion of pendulums was used for timekeeping, and was the world 's most accurate timekeeping technology until the 1930s.
Pendulums are used to regulate pendulum clocks, and are used in scientific यंत्र ऐसे as accelerometers and seismometers.
Historically they were used as gravimeters to measure the त्वरण of गम्भीरता in geophysical surveys, and even as a standard of length.
The word 'pendulum ' is नई Latin, from the Latin pendulus, meaning 'hanging '.
the सरल गम्भीरता लोलक is an idealized गणितीय मॉडल of a लोलक.
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the end of a massless cord suspended from a, without friction.
When given an initial push, it will swing back and forth at a constant amplitude.
Real pendulums are subject to friction and air drag, so the amplitude of their swings declines.
the पहला बैटल of सांड चलाएं, भी ज्ञात as पहला manassas ( the नाम प्रयुक्त by confederate शक्तियां ), थी लड़ा on जुलाई 21, 1861, in प्रिंस विलियम काउंटी, वर्जिनिया, निकट the नगर of manassas.
It was the first major land battle of the American Civil War.
बस months after the start of the war at Fort Sumter, the Northern public clamored for a march against the Confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia, which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion.
Yielding to political pressure, Brig. Gen. Irvin McDowell led उसके unseasoned संघ Army across Bull Run against the equally inexperienced Confederate Army of Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction.
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on the Confederate left was poorly executed by his officers and men ; nevertheless, the Confederates, who had been planning to attack the Union left flank, found themselves at an initial disadvantage.
Confederate reinforcements under Brig. Gen. Joseph E. Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah Valley by railroad और the कोर्स of the battle quickly changed.
A ब्रिगेड of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from the Virginia Military Institute, Thomas J. Jackson, stood their ground and Jackson received his famous nickname, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
The Confederates then launched a दमदार counterattack, and as the Union troops began withdrawing under fire, many panicked and it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington, D.C.
Both armies were sobered by the fierce लड़ और अनेक हताहत, and realized the war was going to be much longer and bloodier than either had anticipated.
Thunderstorm near garajau, Madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere, to the उपाधि कि it is hot or cold, wet or dry, calm or stormy, clear or cloudy.
Most weather phenomena occur in the troposphere, just below the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity, whereas climate is the term for the average atmospheric conditions over longer periods of time.
When used without qualification, `` weather '' is understood to be the weather of Earth.
Weather is driven by air pressure ( temperature and नमी ) मतभेद between one place and another.
These pressure and temperature differences can occur due to the sun angle at any particular spot, which varies by latitude from the tropics.
The strong temperature contrast between polar और तीव्र air gives rise to the jet stream.
Weather प्रणालियों in the mid-latitudes, such as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow.
Because the Earth 's axis is tilted relative to its orbital plane, sunlight is incident at अलग angles at different times of the year.
On Earth 's surface, temperatures usually range ±40 °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually.
Over thousands of years, changes in Earth 's orbit affect the amount and distribution of solar energy प्राप्त by the Earth and influence long-term climate and global climate change.
Surface temperature मतभेद in turn cause pressure differences.
उच्चतर altitudes are cooler than lower altitudes due to differences in compressional heating.
Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to predict the state of the atmosphere for a future time and a given स्थान.
The atmosphere is a chaotic system, so small changes to one part of the system can grow to have विशाल प्रभाव on the प्रणाली as a whole.
Human कोशिशें to control the weather have occurred throughout human history, and there is evidence that human activity such as agriculture and industry has inadvertently modified weather patterns.
Studying how the weather works on other planets has been helpful in understanding how weather works on Earth.
A famous landmark in the Solar System, Jupiter 's Great Red Spot, is an anticyclonic तूफ़ान ज्ञात to have existed for at least 300 years.
However, weather is not limited to ग्रहीय लाशें.
A star 's corona is constantly being lost to space, creating what is essentially a very पतला माहौल throughout the Solar System.
The movement of mass ejected from the सूर्य is known as the solar wind.
Katy Perry is an American singer-songwriter from Santa Barbara, California.
She signed with Capitol Records.
Perry has released three studio albums, including her debut ईसाई प्रयत्न कैटी Hudson, One of the Boys, and Teenage Dream.
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked off with the massive chart success of her debut single `` I चूमा a लड़की ``.
During her career, Perry has been nominated for numerous major music awards, primarily for Teenage सपना and One of the Boys.
The following is a list of sovereign states and territories where English is an official language or language of government.
In 2012, there were 88 states in total ( 60 sovereign states and 28 non-sovereign states ).
In many countries English is the dominant language, but does नहीं have official status.
In Australia, English is spoken by the vast majority of the population and is the only language used in government institutions, but Australia does not have an आधिकारिक भाषा.
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States, though many states and regions within the U.S. do have अंग्रेज़ी as an official language.
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official भाषा of Canada ( along with French ), India ( along with Hindi and several other languages ), Ireland ( along with Irish ), and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ).
English is the sole official language of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Commonwealth Games.
English is one of the official languages of the United राष्ट्र, the European Union and the International Olympic Committee.
Many of these countries are current or former colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see also British Empire ), or of the United States, itself a former colony of the UK.
Notable exceptions include Rwanda, which was a former Belgian colony and इरित्रिया, जिससे थी an इतालवी colony where the British Empire spanned its control only in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's linguistic picture is जटिल.
According to the Constitution of India, `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the official language of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however, English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal laws and Supreme Court decisions and ( along with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament.
English is used almost exclusively for higher education, कारोबार और science.
Courses in majority of the schools are taught exclusively in English.
English is extensively used for administrative purposes in India.
India is the second-largest english-speaking देश in the world by number of speakers, after the United States.
as ऐसे, अनेक consider अंग्रेज़ी to be the de facto आधिकारिक भाषा of इण्डिया.
See आधिकारिक languages of India.
The linguistic makeup of Pakistan is similarly complex.
While the national language is Urdu, English is an official language and used in कारोबार, government and law.
English is a अनिवार्य language in schools.
All school पाठ्यक्रम हैं taught in English.
Pakistan is the 9th largest english-speaking country in the world by population.
दक्षिणी कोन (, ) is a भौगोलिक प्रदेश रचित of the southernmost क्षेत्रों of दक्षिण अमेरिका, दक्षिण of the tropic of मकर.
हालांकि geographically इस शामिल दक्षिणी और भाग of southeast ( são पाउलो ) of ब्राज़ील, in शर्तें of राजनैतिक भूगोल the दक्षिणी कोन रै traditionally comprised अर्जेंटीना, चिली, पैराग्वे, और उरुग्वे.
In the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, bounded on the उत्तर by the states of Brazil, Paraguay, Bolivia and Peru, on the west by the Pacific Ocean, and south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High life expectancy, the highest Human Development Index of Latin America, high Standard of living, significant participation in the global markets and the emerging economy of its members make the Southern Cone the most prosperous macro-region in South America.
For multi-event एथलेटिक competitions see Track and Field Competitions, section `` Meetings ''.
Meetings are sometimes held around conference tables.
In a meeting, two or more people come together to discuss one or more topics, प्रायः in a formal setting.
An official game in baseball, also sometimes called a regulation game, is a game that has progressed beyond the point at which it can be considered complete if necessary.
This is approximately the halfway point of the game.
In the case of inclement weather, any game which has reached this point may be stopped and shortened as needed, with the परिणाम होने final, and all records and statistics counted.
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped is either considered a suspended game ( to be continued at a later date from the point of stoppage ), or is simply canceled and replayed from the start.
( This depends on the rules of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत league. )
In either case, no statistics are गिने जबतक the game becomes official.
Since most professional baseball games are nine innings long, the fifth inning is प्रयुक्त as the threshold for an official game.
If the visiting team is leading, or the game is tied, the end of the fifth inning marks this point.
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the score, and theoretically would not need its half of the fifth inning, then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e., the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game.
The game is also माना आधिकारिक if the home team scores to take the lead in the bottom of the fifth inning, since the game would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth.
in nearly सब मामले, the `` official game '' status is used to determine whether a rain check will be honored for fans holding tickets.
If a game is started but does not reach the point of becoming official, fans are entitled to a new टिकट for the make-up game or ( in most cases ) any other available game of their choice.
If a game is halted after it becomes official, the game is simply shortened and no rain check is given.
The `` official game '' statistic received कुछ ध्यान दौरान the 1995 season, when Cal Ripken, Jr. was approaching the record for consecutive games played, previously held by Lou Gehrig.
Large numbers were hung on the side of the B & O Warehouse at Oriole Park at Camden गज to दिखाएँ the क्रमांक of games in Ripken 's streak.
Each day, a new number was unfurled दौरान the fifth inning after each game had become official ( since the statistic would not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ).
A similar practice has been used to count down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003, Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis in 2005, and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became official, the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium.
A telephone number or phone number is a sequence of digits used to call from one telephone line to another in a public switched telephone network.
When telephone numbers were invented, वे यहूद short — as few as one, two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard operator.
As phone systems have grown and interconnected to encompass the world, telephone numbers have become longer.
In जोड to telephones, they now access other devices, such as computers and fax machines.
The number contains the information necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint for the टेलीफोन call.
Each such endpoint must have a unique number भीतर the पब्लिक switched telephone network.
सबसे देशों उपयोग फिक्स्ड लंबाई संख्याएँ ( लिये सामान्य लाइनों at तनिक ) और इसलिए the क्रमांक of endpoints determines the जरुरी लंबाई of the टेलीफोन क्रमांक.
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a set of shorter numbers for the endpoints most often used.
These `` shorthand '' or `` गति calling '' numbers are automatically translated to unique telephone numbers before the call can be connected.
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the United Kingdom, Ireland, South Africa, Poland, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Macao, Bahrain, Qatar, Bangladesh, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mauritius, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union, respectively. )
Many systems also allow काल्स भीतर a local area to be made without dialing the local area code.
For example, a phone number in North America will start with three numbers ( such as 661 ), which is the क्षेत्रफल कोड, followed by seven digits split into sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ), which is the local number.
Some areas now have mandatory ten-digit dialing in प्लेस, even for local calls.
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and secure phone networks ) are interconnected in the international telephone network, where the format of telephone numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies that the entire number should be 15 digits or shorter, and begin with a country prefix.
For most countries, this is followed by an area code or नगर कोड और the सदस्य number, which might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an अंतरराष्ट्रीय telephone number in writing or print, starting with a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country code.
When calling an international number from a fixed line phone, the + must be replaced साथ the international call prefix chosen by the country the call is being made from.
Some mobile phones allow the + to be entered directly.
The format and allocation of local phone numbers are नियंत्रित by प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's संबंधित government, either directly or by sponsored organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ).
Before a टेलीफोन call is connected, the telephone number must be dialed by the calling party or Caller.
The called party might have equipment कि presents caller ID before the call is answered.
A collection agency is a business that pursues payments of debts owed by individuals or businesses.
Most collection agencies operate as agents of creditors and collect debts लिये a शुल्क or percentage of the total amount owed.
There are many types of संग्रहण agencies.
first-party एजेंसियों are oftentimes subsidiaries of the original company the debt is owed to.
third-party एजेंसियों are separate companies contracted by a company to collect debts on their behalf for a fee.
कर्ज़ खरीदार purchase the debt at a percentage of its value, then attempt to collect it.
Each country has its own rules and regulations regarding them.
Cannabis flower with visible trichomes
Cannabis, also known as मारिजुआना ( इससे the मैक्सिकन स्पेनी marihuana ), and by other names, is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
pharmacologically, the प्रिंसिपल psychoactive constituent of कैनबिस is tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc ) ; it is एक of 483 ज्ञात यौगिकों in the संयंत्र, सहित at तनिक 84 अन्य cannabinoids, ऐसे as cannabidiol ( सीबीडी ), cannabinol ( cbn ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
and cannabigerol ( cbg ).
This is a list of American football quarterbacks who have started for the Washington Redskins, as well as its predecessors the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the National Football लीग ( NFL ).
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally founded in Boston, Massachusetts as the Boston Braves, named after the local बेसबॉल मताधिकार.
The name was changed the following year to the Redskins.
In 1937, the franchise moved to वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
Of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks, two have been inducted into the Pro Football Hall of कीर्ति : सैमी baugh और Sonny Jurgensen.
Robert Griffin III 2012-present
Jason कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
Mark burnell 2004-2007
चिह्नित Rypien 1986-1993
Joe Theismann 1974-1985
Sammy baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ), popularly known as डेल्टा फ़ोर्स, is एक of the United States ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units.
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by the Department of Defense but has चूंकि महरूम officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ).
जबकि 1st sfod-d is administratively समर्थित by usasoc, it जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the operational कंट्रोल of the संयुक्त खास परिचालन कमांड.
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart, the Naval Special Warfare Development Group, are the United States military 's primary counter-terrorism units.
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism, direct action, and नेशनल हस्तक्षेप परिचालन, हालांकि it is an extremely versatile group capable of conducting many types of covert missions, including, but not limited to, hostage rescues and raids.
the सेंट्रल प्रज्ञा एजेंसी 's अत्यधिक गुपचुप खास क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह ( sog ) प्रायः works साथ – और रंगरूटों – ऑपरेटर from Delta Force.
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms ( or 'decays ' ) into an atom with a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 less.
Many अन्य types of decays are possible.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses उर्जा by emitting अणु of ionizing radiation.
A material कि अनायास emits इस दयालु of विकिरण — जिससे शामिल the उत्सर्जन of ऊर्जावान अल्फा अणु, बीटा अणु, और गामा किरणें — is माना रेडियोसक्रिय.
There are many different types of radioactive decay ( see table below ).
A decay, or loss of energy, results when an atom with one type of nucleus, called the parent radionuclide, transforms to an atom with a nucleus in a different state, or to a different nucleus containing different numbers of protons and neutrons.
Either of ये products is named the daughter nuclide.
In some decays the parent and daughter are different chemical elements, and thus the क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation ( creation of an atom of a new element ).
The first decay processes to be discovered were alpha decay, beta decay, and gamma decay.
Alpha decay occurs when the nucleus ejects an alpha particle ( helium nucleus ).
This is the most common process of emitting nucleons, but in rarer types of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the process called cluster decay ).
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an इलेक्ट्रॉन or positron and a type of neutrino, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way around.
the केंद्रक may कैप्चर an orbiting इलेक्ट्रॉन, converting a प्रोटॉन into a न्यूट्रॉन ( इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर ).
सब of these processes result in nuclear transmutation.
By कंट्रास्ट, वहीँ मौजूद radioactive decay processes that do not result in transmutation.
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a गामा रे in gamma decay, or used to eject an orbital electron by interaction with the excited nucleus in a process called internal conversion.
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, and this results in a change in an element from one isotope to another.
One type of radioactive decay results in products which are not defined, but appear in a range of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus.
This decay is पुकारा spontaneous fission.
This decay happens when a large unstable nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( and occasionally three ) smaller daughter nuclei, and usually emits gamma rays, neutrons, or other particles as a consequence.
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) process at the level of single atoms, in that, according to quantum सिद्धान्त, it is नामुमकिन to predict when a particular atom will decay.
However, the chance that a given atom will decay is constant over time.
For a large number of atoms, the decay rate for the collection is computable from the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ).
Waxing is a रूप of semi-permanent बाल हटाना जिससे removes the बाल इससे the रूट.
New hair will not grow back in the previously waxed area for two to eight weeks, although some people will start to see regrowth in only a week.
Almost any area of the body can be waxed, including eyebrows, face, bikini area, legs, arms, back, उदर और फीट.
There are many types of waxing उपयुक्त for removing unwanted hair.
Strip waxing is संपन्नता by spreading a wax thinly over the skin.
A cloth or paper स्ट्रिप is तब दबाया on the top and ripped off the direction of hair growth.
इस removes the मोम साथ साथ the बाल.
Strip wax can also be made at home using lemon juice, water, sugar and honey.
Hot waxing utilizes Hot wax ( as opposed to स्ट्रिप wax ).
In this case, the wax is लागू somewhat thickly and with no cloth or paper strips.
The wax then hardens when it cools, thus allowing the easy removal by a therapist without the सहायता of cloths.
This waxing विधि is बहुत beneficial to people who have sensitive skin.
Wall painting ( 1st सदी ad ) from Pompeii depicting a multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the almost 1200-year history of the civilization of Ancient Rome.
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic, later the Roman Empire, which, at its peak, covered an area इससे Lowland Scotland and Morocco to the Euphrates.
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome, its famed seven hills, and its monumental structures such as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ), the Forum of त्राजान, और the pantheon.
The city also had several थिएटर, gymnasiums, and many taverns, baths, and brothels.
Throughout the territory अंतर्गत प्राचीन रोम 's कंट्रोल, आवासीय वास्तुकला ranged from very modest houses to country villas, and in the capital city of Rome, there were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill, from which the word palace is derived.
The vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी lived in the city center, packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ).
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of that time, with a population that may well have exceeded one million people, with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the population under the नगर 's क्षेत्राधिकार जिया in innumerable urban centers, with population of at least 10,000 and several military settlements, a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy, which had an estimated rate of urbanization of 32 %, the same rate of urbanization of England in 1800.
Most Roman towns and cities had a forum, temples and the same type of buildings, on a smaller scale, as found in Rome.
The large urban population required an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical task, including acquiring, transporting, storing और वितरण of खाना लिये रोम और अन्य urban centers.
इतालवी खेतो supplied सब्जियां और फल, लकिन मछली और मांस यहूद luxuries.
Aqueducts were built to bring water to urban centers and wine and oil were आयातित from Hispania, Gaul and Africa.
There was a very large amount of commerce between the provinces of the Roman Empire, since its transportation technology was very efficient.
The average costs of transport and the technology were comparable with 18th-century Europe.
The later city of Rome did not fill the space within its ancient Aurelian walls until after 1870.
Eighty percent of the population under the jurisdiction of ancient Rome lived in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in cities and their estates were left in the care of farm managers.
The plight of rural slaves was generally worse than their counterparts working in urban aristocratic households.
To stimulate a higher labor productivity most landlords freed a large number of slaves and many received wages.
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one small farm hut in Egypt, while six families owned a single olive tree. ''.
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of population to urban centers until the early 2nd century, when the urban population stopped growing and started to decline.
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC, private Greek culture was increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists.
By the time of Augustus, cultured Greek household slaves taught the Roman young ( sometimes even the girls ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East.
Greek sculptures adorned Hellenistic landscape gardening on the Palatine or in the विला, or were imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves.
The Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery books ascribed to Apicius is essentially Greek.
Roman writers disdained लैटिन लिये a cultured Greek style.
Only in law and governance was the Italic nature of Rome 's accretive culture supreme.
Against this human background, both the urban and rural setting, one of history 's most influential civilizations took shape, leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today.
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf, Jr. ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an American professional golfer.
Glass bottles ( लिये खीरा slices ) on shipping pallets
A Soviet mayonnaise जार
A modern `` फ्रेंच Kilner '' jar
Glass production involves two main methods – the float कांच प्रक्रम, which produces sheet glass, and glassblowing which produces bottles and other containers.
A season is a subdivision of the year, marked by changes in weather, ecology, and घंटों of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface, variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern hemisphere is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun.
The same is true of the southern hemisphere in नवम्बर, दिसम्बर and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky दौरान the summer months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and दिसम्बर, January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season and the dry season, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild ऋतु.
In some parts of the world, special `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on important events such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological seasons
The four calendar seasons, depicted in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
the बैटल of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14, 1861 ) was the bombardment and surrender of Fort Sumter, near Charleston, South Carolina, that started the American Civil War.
Following declarations of secession by seven Southern states, South Carolina demanded that the u.S. Army abandon its facilities in Charleston Harbor.
On December 26, 1860, U.S. Major Robert Anderson surreptitiously moved his small command from the indefensible फोर्ट moultrie on सुलीवान 's Island to Fort Sumter, a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor.
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson, using the unarmed merchant ship Star of the West, failed when it was fired upon by shore batteries on January 9, 1861.
South Carolina authorities then seized all Federal property in the Charleston area, मगर for Fort Sumter.
During the early months of 1861, the हालात around Fort Sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
In March, Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the पहला general officer of the newly formed Confederate States of America, was placed in command of Confederate forces in Charleston.
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of बैटरी around Charleston harbor aimed at Fort Sumter.
शर्तें in the fort grew dire as the Union soldiers rushed to complete the installation of additional guns.
एंडरसन थी छोटी of men, food, and supplies.
The resupply of Fort Sumter became the first crisis of the administration of President अब्राहम Lincoln.
He notified the Governor of South Carolina, Francis W. Pickens, that he was sending supply ships, which resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately.
Major Anderson refused to आत्मसमर्पण.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12, the Confederates bombarded the fort from artillery batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the Union garrison returned fire, they were significantly outgunned and, after 34 hours, Major Anderson agreed to evacuate.
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this engagement, although a gun explosion during the surrender ceremonies on April 14 caused two Union deaths.
Following the battle, वहीँ थी widespread support from both North and South for further military action.
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress the rebellion resulted in an additional four southern slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy.
The Civil War had begun.
3G, short for third पीढी, is the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology.
3G telecommunication networks support services that provide an information transfer rate of at least 200 kbit/s.
However, many services advertised as 3G provide उच्चतर गति than the minimum technical requirements for a 3G service.
Recent 3G releases, often denoted 3.5G and 3.75G, also provide mobile broadband access of several Mbit/s to smartphones and mobile modems in laptop computers.
3G finds application in wireless voice telephony, mobile Internet access, fixed wireless Internet access, video calls and mobile TV.
`` Mazel Tov ! '' written on a wine glass tag
Traditionally, after the groom breaks the glass, the guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! ``.
A birthday cake, iced with the शब्द `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is often done in Israel.
Here the phrase is written in Hebrew cursive.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( यहूदी / यहूदी : `` מזל טוב '', यहूदी : `` mazal tov '' ; यहूदी : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` good luck '' ) is a phrase used to express congratulations for a happy and significant occasion or event.
Hepatitis C is an संक्रामक बीमारी affecting primarily the liver, caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ).
the संक्रमण is often asymptomatic, but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to cirrhosis, which is generally apparent after many years.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis will go on to develop liver failure, liver cancer or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact associated with intravenous drug use, poorly sterilized medical उपकरण और transfusions.
An estimated 130–200 million people worldwide हैं infected with.
The existence of ( originally `` non- a non- B hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s and proven in 1989.
only infects इंसानो and chimpanzees.
The virus persists in the liver in about 85 % of those infected.
इस persistent संक्रमण can be treated with medication : the standard therapy is a combination of peginterferon and ribavirin, with either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases.
overall, 50–80 % of people treated are cured.
Those who develop cirrhosis or liver cancer may require a liver transplant.
is the अग्रणी कारण of जिगर प्रत्यारोपण, हालांकि the वायरस प्रायः बारंबार बाद प्रत्यारोपण.
No टीका विरूद्ध is available.
A flexible spending account ( FSA ), also known as a flexible spending arrangement, is one of a number of tax-advantaged financial accounts that can be set up through a cafeteria plan of an employer in the United States.
an fsa allows an कर्मचारी to नियत aside a portion of आय to अदा लिये योग्य खर्च as स्थापित in the कैफेटेरिया योजना, सबसे commonly लिये चिकित्सा खर्च लकिन प्रायः लिये निर्भर परवाह or अन्य खर्च.
Money deducted from an employee 's pay into an FSA is not subject to payroll taxes, resulting in substantial payroll tax savings.
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is that funds not used by the end of the plan year are lost to the employee, known as the `` use it or lose it '' rule.
The most common type of flexible spending account, the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ), is similar to a health savings account ( HSA ) or a स्वास्थ्य reimbursement account ( HRA ).
However, while HSAs and HRAs are almost exclusively used as components of a consumer driven health care plan, medical FSAs are commonly offered with more परंपरागत health plans as well.
In addition, funds in a health savings account are not lost when the plan year is over, नापसंद निधि in an FSA.
Paper फ़ॉर्म or an FSA debit card, also known as a Flexcard, may be used to access the account funds.
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Southeastern United States.
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive and the 17th most populous of the 50 United States.
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north, North Carolina to the east, Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi to the south, and Arkansas and Missouri to the west.
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern part of the state, and the Mississippi River forms the राज्य 's western border.
टेनेसी 's पूंजी and second largest city is Nashville, which has a population of 609,644.
Memphis is the state 's largest city, with a population of 652,050.
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the watauga संघ, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the first constitutional government west of the Appalachians.
What is now Tennessee was initially part of North Carolina, and later भाग of the Southwest Territory.
Tennessee was admitted to the Union as the 16th state on June 1, 1796.
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. Civil War in 1861, और the पहला राज्य to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the war.
Tennessee furnished more soldiers for the Confederate Army than any other state, and more soldiers for the Union Army than any other Southern state.
In the 20th century, Tennessee transitioned from an agrarian economy to a more diversified economy, aided at times by federal entities such as the Tennessee Valley Authority.
In the early 1940s, the city of Oak Ridge थी स्थापित to हाउस the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment facilities, helping to build the world 's first atomic bomb.
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of many forms of American popular music, including rock and roll, blues, country, and rockabilly.
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be the birthplace of the blues, with musicians such as W.C. Handy performing in its clubs as early as 1909.
Memphis was also home to Sun Records, where musicians such as Elvis Presley, Isaac Hayes, Johnny Cash, Carl Perkins, Jerry Lee Lewis, Roy Orbison, and Charlie Rich began their recording careers, and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s.
The 1927 Victor recording sessions in ब्रिस्टल generally चिह्नित the beginning of the country music genre and the rise of the Grand Ole Opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the country music recording industry.
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing various forms of popular music : the Memphis Rock N ' Soul Museum, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville, and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson.
In addition, the Rockabilly हॉल of कीर्ति, an online site recognizing the development of rockabilly in which Tennessee played a crucial role, is based in Nashville.
Tennessee 's प्रमुख industries include agriculture, manufacturing, and tourism.
मुर्गीपालन, soybeans, और चौपायों हैं the राज्य 's प्राथमिक agricultural उत्पाद, और प्रमुख निर्माण निर्यात शामिल रसायन, परिवहन उपकरण, और विद्युत उपकरण.
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the nation 's most visited national park, is headquartered in the eastern part of the state, and a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border.
Other major tourist attractions include the Tennessee Aquarium in Chattanooga, the Sunsphere in Knoxville, Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, the Parthenon, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum, and Ryman Auditorium in Nashville, and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis.
One design variant of a cock रिंग.
A cock ring is a ring that can be placed around a man 's penis, usually at the base, primarily to slow the flow of blood from the erect penile tissue, thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time.
मुर्गा बजती can be worn around बस the शिश्न or दोनो the शिश्न और scrotum, or बस the scrotum अलोन, हालांकि इस is प्रायः पुकारा a testicle कफ.
Rings can be made of a variety of अलग सामग्री, सबसे commonly leather, rubber, or silicone, though nylon and metal are also used either as the main component or part of the closure.
The term cock ring is sometimes प्रयुक्त as a synonym for a Prince Albert piercing, a piercing of the penis that is usually, though not always, a metal ring.
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction they are known by various names such as `` erection ring '' and `` tension ring ''.
The headquarters of Major League Baseball at 245 Park Avenue, Midtown Manhattan, New York City, USA.
Major League बेसबॉल ( MLB ) is a professional baseball league, consisting of teams that play in the National League and the American League.
Dating to 1876 and 1901 क्रमशः, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball, after 100 years as separate legal entities.
MLB constitutes one of the major professional खेल लीग of the United States and Canada.
It is composed of 30 teams — 29 in the संयुक्त राज्य and one in Canada.
Teams in MLB play 162 games each season over छह महीने ( April through September ).
Five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven-games championship series between the two league champions which dates to 1903.
The organization oversees many minor-league baseball leagues which operate about 240 टीमों संबद्ध साथ the major-league clubs.
With the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Baseball Federation, the league also manages the international World Baseball Classic tournament.
MLB has the highest season attendance of any sports league in the world with nearly 75 million spectators in 2012.
डेलावेयर ( ) is a U.S. state located on the Atlantic Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States.
It is bordered to the south and west by Maryland, to the northeast by New Jersey, and to the north by Pennsylvania.
The state takes its name from Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, an English nobleman and वर्जिनिया 's पहला औपनिवेशिक governor, after whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named.
Delaware is स्तिथ in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second smallest, the sixth least populous, but the sixth most densely populated of the fifty United States.
Delaware is divided into three counties.
From north to south, these three काउंटी are New Castle, Kent, and Sussex.
While the southern two counties have historically been predominantly agricultural, New Castle County has been more industrialized.
Before its coastline was explored by Europeans in the 16th century, Delaware was inhabited by several groups of Native Americans, including the Lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by Dutch traders at Zwaanendael, located near the present town of Lewes, in 1631.
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution and on December 7, 1787, became the first state to ratify the संविधान of the संयुक्त States, thereby becoming known as The First State.
Energy Transformation in Energy Systems भाषा
Energy transformation or energy conversion is the process of changing one form of energy to another.
In physics, the term energy describes the capacity to produce certain changes within a system, without regard to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy.
Changes in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting energy from them, as energy is a quantity which is conserved, according to the first law of thermodynamics.
According to special relativity, changes in the energy of systems will also coincide with changes in the system 's mass, and the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy.
Energy in a system may be transformed so कि it resides in a different state, or a different type of energy.
Energy in many states may be used to do many varieties of physical work.
Energy may be used in प्राकृतिक processes or machines, or else to provide some service to society ( such as heat, light, or motion ).
For example, an internal combustion engine converts the potential chemical energy in gasoline and oxygen into heat, which is then transformed into the propulsive energy ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ).
A solar cell converts solar radiation into electrical energy that can then be used to light a बल्ब or शक्ति a कंप्यूटर.
The generic name for a device which converts उर्जा from one form to another, is a transducer.
In general, most types of energy, save for thermal energy, may be converted efficiently to any अन्य दयालु of energy.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, such as when potential energy is converted to kinetic energy as an ऑब्जेक्ट जलप्रपात in वैक्यूम, or जब it orbits nearer or farther from another object, in space.
Conversion of other types of energies to ऊष्मा may also occurs with nearly perfect efficiency ( many types of friction do this ).
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated प्रणालियों ) occur when energy has already been partly distributed among many available quantum states for a collection of particles, which are freely allowed to explore any state of momentum and position ( phase space ).
in ऐसे हालातों, a माप पुकारा एन्ट्रॉपी, or evening-out of उर्जा वितरण in ऐसे राज्य, dictates कि भविष्य राज्य of the प्रणाली जरूर be of at तनिक बराबर evenness in उर्जा वितरण.
( There is no रास्ता, लेने the ब्रह्मांड as a whole, to collect energy into fewer states, once it has spread to them ).
A consequence of this requirement is कि वहीँ हैं सीमाएं to the दक्षता with which thermal energy can be converted to other kinds of energy, since thermal energy in equilibrium at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states.
Such energy is sometimes considered `` degraded energy, '' क्युकी it is not entirely usable.
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that, for this reason, thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 %, only if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of the universe is increased by other means, to compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content.
Otherwise, तभी a भाग of थर्मल उर्जा may be परिवर्तित to other kinds of energy ( and thus, useful work ), since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower temperature, in such a way that the increase in Entropy for this process more than compensates for the entropy decrease associated with transformation of the rest of the heat into other types of energy.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs, of which seven are currently located in कनाडा और 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the world, and one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, after the suspension of operations of its predecessor संगठन, the नेशनल हॉकी Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It started with four teams and, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada, although the league has now been binational since 1924 when it विस्तारित into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
This is the complete list of the ratified and unratified amendments to the United राज्य संविधान जिससे प्राप्त the approval of the United States Congress.
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the original signing of the Constitution, the first ten of which are known collectively as the Bill of Rights.
The procedure for amending the United States Constitution is governed by Article V of the original text.
There have been many other प्रस्ताव for amendments to the United States Constitution introduced in Congress, but not submitted to the states.
Before an amendment can take effect, it must be प्रस्तावित to the states by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a convention ( known as an Article V convention ) called by two-thirds of the states, and ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof, the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal.
To date, no convention for proposing amendments has been called by the states, and only once—in 1933 for the ratification of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention method of ratification been employed.
FMR LLC ( Fidelity प्रबन्धन and Research ) or Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services corporation.
It is एक of the largest mutual fund and financial services groups in the world.
It was founded in 1946 and serves North American निवेशकों.
Fidelity Ventures is its venture पूंजी भुजा.
वफ़ादारी अंतरराष्ट्रीय सीमित ( FIL ), was an international affiliate founded in 1969, serving most countries in the rest of the world.
In September 2011, FIL was rebranded as 'Fidelity Worldwide Investment '.
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds, provides fund distribution and investment advice services, as well as providing discount brokerage services, retirement सेवाएं, wealth management, securities execution and clearance, life insurance and a number of other services.
June 2006 was the sixth month of that साल.
It began on a Thursday and ended after 30 days on a Friday The following events also occurred दौरान the month:
Sociology is the scientific study of human society and its origins, development, organizations, and संस्थानों.
It is a social science which uses various methods of empirical investigation and critical analysis to develop a देह of knowledge about human social activity, structures, and functions.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be applied directly to social policy and welfare, while others focus primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes.
Subject matter ranges from the micro level of व्यक्तिगत agency and interaction to the macro level of systems and the social structure.
The traditional focuses of sociology include social stratification, social class, culture, race and ethnicity, gender and कामुकता, सोशल mobility, religion, secularization, law, and deviance.
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency, sociology has gradually expanded its focus to further subjects, such as health, medical, military and penal institutions, the अंतरजाल, पर्यावरणीय sociology, political economy and the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge.
The range of सोशल वैज्ञानिक methods has also expanded.
Social researchers draw upon a किस्में of qualitative and quantitative techniques.
The linguistic and cultural turns of the mid-twentieth century led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, and philosophic approaches to the analysis of society.
Conversely, recent decades have seen the rise of new analytically, mathematically and computationally rigorous techniques, such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis.
Sociology should not be confused with various general social studies courses which bear little relation to sociological theory or सोशल science research methodology.
थंडर is the sound caused by lightning.
Depending on the nature of the lightning and distance of the listener, thunder can range from a sharp, loud crack to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The अचानक increase in pressure and temperature from lightning produces rapid expansion of the air surrounding and within a bolt of lightning.
In turn, this expansion of air creates a sonic shock wave, similar to a sonic boom, which produces the sound of thunder, often referred to as a clap, crack, or peal of thunder.
The distance of the lightning can be गणना by the listener based on the time interval from when the lightning is seen to when the sound is heard.
Palma (,, ), in full Palma de Mallorca, is the major city and port on the island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and capital city of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands in Spain.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of Majorca ) and Ciutat ( City ) were used before the War of the Spanish Succession and are still used by people in Majorca.
However, the official name was Mallorca, the same as the island.
It is situated on the south coast of the island on the Bay of Palma.
as of the 2009 जनसांख्यिकी, the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर of पालमा उचित थी 401,270, और the जनसांख्यिकी of the संपूर्ण शहरी क्षेत्रफल थी 517,285, रैंकिंग as the बारहवीं largest urban area of Spain.
लगभग हाफ of the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of majorca सजीव in पालमा.
The Cabrera Archipelago, though widely separated from Palma proper, is administratively माना भाग of the municipality.
Its airport, Son Sant Joan, serves over 22 million passengers each year.
the marivent राजमहल थी offered by the नगर to the तब प्रिंस जुआन कार्लोस i of स्पेन.
The royals have since spent their summer holidays in Palma.
Luthor redirects here.
For other उपयोग, देखिए Luther ( disambiguation ).
सिकंदर Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC Comics.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, and as a high-status supervillain, has also come into conflict with Batman and other superheroes in the DC Universe.
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, the character first appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ).
Luthor is described as `` a power-mad, evil वैज्ञानिक '' of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess.
Luthor 's goals typically center on killing Superman, the foremost obstacle to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals.
Despite periodically wearing a powered exoskeleton, Luthor has traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual identity.
The character was originally depicted as a mad scientist who, in the vein of pulp novels, wreaks havoc on the world with his futuristic weaponry.
In his earliest दिखावे, Luthor is shown with a full head of red hair.
despite this, the character later became hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake.
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations, revealing उसे to be a बाल्यकाल friend of Superman 's who lost his hair when a fire destroyed his laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge.
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths, the character was re-imagined as a Machiavellian industrialist and white-collar criminal, even briefly serving as President of the United States.
In recent years, various writers have revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
The character was ranked as the 8th Greatest Villain by Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains of सब समय list.
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic Book खलनायक of सब समय ranked Luthor as # 4.
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic Peter Sanderson, one of a few genre-crossing villains whose adventures take place `` in a world in which the ordinary laws of nature are slightly suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty, Count Dracula, Hannibal Lecter, Doctor Doom, and Darth Vader, also fit this description.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday marking the जन्मदिवस of रेव. dr. मार्टिन लूथर King, Jr.
It is observed on the third Monday of January each year, which is around the time of King 's birthday, जनवरी 15.
The floating holiday is समान to holidays set under the Uniform Monday Holiday Act, though the act predated the establishment of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by 15 years.
King was the chief प्रवक्ता for nonviolent activism in the civil rights movement, which successfully protested racial discrimination in federal and state law.
the अभियान लिये a संघीय अवकाश in किंग 's सम्मान began जल्द बाद उसके हत्या in 1968.
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983, and it थी पहला observed on January 20, 1986.
At first, कुछ राज्य resisted observing the holiday as such, giving it alternative names or combining it with other holidays.
It was officially observed in all 50 states for the first time in 2000.
The camera phone solution allows instant sharing of तस्वीरें.
As it 's automatic and तत्काल, the user does not have to use a cable or removable media to connect to a personal computer.
A कैमरा phone is a mobile phone which is able to capture still photographs ( and usually video ).
Since early in the 21st century the majority of mobile phones in उपयोग are camera phones.
Most camera phones are simpler than separate डिजिटल cameras.
Their usual fixed focus lenses and smaller sensors limit उनके प्रदर्शन in poor lighting.
lacking a physical shutter, most have a long shutter lag.
Flash, where present, is usually कमजोर.
Optical zoom and tripod screws are rare.
Some also lack a USB connection, removable memory card, or other way of transferring their pictures more quickly than by the phone 's inherent communication feature.
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages, which apply most acutely in low light conditions and in any case have not inhibited their widespread use.
Most model lines improve in these regards every year or two.
Some, such as the Droid Incredible only have a menu choice to start an अनुप्रयोग program to activate the camera.
Others, such as the BlackBerry Storm 2, Droid X, Motorola V980 and नोकिया 5800 also have a separate camera button for quickness and convenience.
Windows Phones can be configured to operate as a camera even if the phone is asleep.
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end digital compact cameras in appearance and to some extent in features and picture quality, and are branded as both mobile phones and cameras, including certain Sony phones.
the प्रिंसिपल लाभ of कैमरा फोन हैं लागत और compactness ; बेशक लिये a उपयोक्ता जो carries a मोबाईल फोन वैसे, the अतिरिक्त आकार और लागत हैं negligible.
स्मार्टफ़ोन कि हैं कैमरा फोन may चलाएं मोबाईल अनुप्रयोग to add सामर्थ्य ऐसे as geotagging और चित्र stitching.
A few high end phones can use their touch screen to direct their camera to focus on a particular object in the फ़ील्ड of दृश्य, giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता a degree of focus control exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus.
`` Whatever happened to the man of Tomorrow ? '' is a 1986 comic book story featuring the DC Comics character of Superman.
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time, and soon to be retiring, Superman editor, Julius Schwartz, the story was published in two parts, beginning in Superman # 423 and ending in Action Comics # 583, both published in September 1986.
The story was drawn by long-time कलाकार रूखा swan, in उसके फाइनल major contribution to the Superman titles, and was inked by George Pérez in the issue of Superman and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics.
The story was an imaginary tale which told the final story of the Silver Age Superman and his long history, which was being rebooted following the कार्यक्रम of संकट on Infinite Earths, before his modern introduction in the John Byrne series, The Man of Steel.
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long history of the character and to serve as a complete निष्कर्ष to his mythology.
The story is a frame story set ten years after Superman was last seen, where Lois Lane recounts the tale of the end of Superman 's career to a reporter from the Daily Planet.
Her story includes numerous violent हमले विरूद्ध सुपरमैन by उसके दुश्मनों, the पब्लिक रहस्योद्घाटन of उसके रहस्य पहचान of क्लार्क केंट और a क्रमांक of मौतों of those closest to उसे.
The story has been cited as one of the best stories of the character of Superman, and आलोचकों and audiences frequently choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published.
It is used as an example of how to close the long-time continuity of a comic book character.
the स्टोरी 's विरासत रै endured साथ समान कहानियां लिखा as श्रद्धांजलि to it.
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman as the Man of Tomorrow, and was used in the title of another Superman.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the world, with a top speed of.
The original version has a top गति of.
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear.
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car Driven सब Year award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, bugatti नियत the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the अभियान्त्रिकी work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special विसंगतियाँ have been produced.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website.
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme in the depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art, as in this 16th-century जुआन de Juanes painting.
`` At the Last Supper, on the night he was betrayed, our Savior instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of his Body and Blood. ''
( Catechism of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर 1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass, that is, the Eucharist liturgy, and the bread and wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ, Lord and God, a declaration प्रतिपादित by the Council of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this.
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term used in the Roman Catholic Church to refer to the Eucharistic प्रजाति ( the Body and Blood of Christ ).
The following is a list of colleges and universities in the U.S. state of Louisiana.
A short story is a brief work of literature, प्रायः written in narrative prose.
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short story has grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization.
At its most prototypical the short story features a small cast of नामित वर्ण, and focuses on a self-contained incident with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood.
In so doing, short stories make use of plot, resonance, and other dynamic components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote, yet to a far lesser degree than a novel.
While the छोटी स्टोरी is largely distinct from the novel, authors of both generally draw from a common pool of literary techniques.
Short stories have no set length.
In शर्तें of word count there is no official demarcation between an anecdote, a short story, and a novel.
Rather, the form 's parameters are given by the rhetorical and practical context in which a given story is produced and considered, so that what constitutes a short story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators.
Like the novel, the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication, और the एवोल्यूशन of the form seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing industry and the submission guidelines of its constituent houses.
The short story has been considered दोनो an शिक्षुता form preceding more lengthy works, and a crafted form in its own right, collected together in books of similar length, price, and distribution as novels.
Short story लेखक may define their works as part of the artistic and personal expression of the form.
They may also attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form.
Area कोड in Michigan
Area code 810 is the telephone क्षेत्रफल कोड serving eastern Michigan.
The raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, also known as the common raccoon, North American raccoon, northern raccoon and colloquially as coon, is a medium-sized mammal native to North America.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family, having a body length of and a body weight of.
Its grayish coat mostly consists of dense underfur which insulates विरूद्ध cold weather.
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its extremely dexterous front paws and its facial mask, which are themes in the mythology of several Native अमरीकी tribes.
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence, with studies showing that they are able to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years.
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, which is usually nocturnal, consists of about 40 % invertebrates, 33 % plant foods, and 27 % vertebrates.
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed forests, but due to उनके adaptability they have extended their range to mountainous areas, coastal marshes, and urban areas, where some homeowners consider them to be pests.
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century, raccoons are now also distributed across the European mainland, the Caucasus region and Japan.
Though previously thought to be solitary, there is now evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior.
Related females often share a common area, while unrelated males live together in groups of up to four animals to maintain their positions against विदेशी males दौरान the समागम ऋतु, और अन्य potential invaders.
Home range sizes vary anywhere from 3 hectares ( 7 acres ) for महिलाओं in शहरों to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies.
After a gestation period of about 65 days, two to five young, known as `` kits '', हैं born in वसन्त.
the kits are subsequently raised by their mother until dispersion in late fall.
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 years, their average life expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years.
In many areas, hunting and vehicular चोट हैं the two most common causes of death.
the 2010 हैती भूकंप was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake, with an epicenter near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ), approximately west of Port-au-Prince, Haiti 's capital.
The भूकंप occurred at 16:53 लोकल समय ( 21:53 utc ) on मंगलवार, 12 जनवरी 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater had been recorded.
An estimated three million people were affected by the quake.
The highest reliable death गिनती was estimated at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates यहूद higher.
The government of Haiti estimated that 250,000 निवास and 30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or were severely damaged.
The earthquake caused major damage in Port-au-Prince, Jacmel and other settlements in the region.
Many notable landmark buildings were significantly damaged or destroyed, including the Presidential Palace, the National Assembly building, the Port-au-Prince Cathedral, and the main jail.
Among those मारे were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph Serge Miot, and opposition leader Micha Gaillard.
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ), located in the capital, collapsed, killing many, including the Mission 's Chief, Hédi Annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid, pledging funds and dispatching बचाव और चिकित्सा टीमों, engineers and support personnel.
Communication systems, air, land, and sea transport facilities, hospitals, and electrical networks had been damaged by the earthquake, which hampered rescue and aid efforts ; confusion over who was in charge, air traffic congestion, and problems with prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work.
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were overwhelmed with tens of thousands of bodies.
These had to be buried in mass graves.
As rescues tailed off, supplies, medical care and sanitation became priorities.
Delays in aid वितरण led to angry appeals from aid workers and survivors, and looting and sporadic violence were observed.
On 22 January the United Nations noted that the emergency phase of the relief operation was drawing to a close, and on the following day the Haitian government officially called off the search for survivors.
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse, originally appearing in short stories by Walter R. Brooks, and later in an American television situation comedy produced by Filmways that first aired in syndication from January 5 to July 2, 1961, and then on CBS from अक्तूबर 1, 1961 to फ़रवरी 6, 1966.
The stars of the show were Mister Ed, a palomino horse who could `` talk '', played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former पश्चिमी star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited for the entire length of the series ), and his owner, an eccentric and enormously klutzy, yet friendly, architect named Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ).
Much of the program 's humor stemmed from the फैक्ट मिस्टर Ed would speak only to Wilbur, as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other running jokes centered on wilbur 's अक्षर होने a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or others.
according to the दिखाएँ 's निर्माता, आर्थर lubin, यंग थी चुनी as the सीसे अक्षर क्युकी he `` बस लगा जैसे the sort of guy a घोड़ा होता बात to ''.
Lubin, a friend of Mae West, scored a coup by persuading the screen icon to guest star in one एपीसोड.
In the United States, reruns aired on Nick at Nite from March 3, 1986, to February 1, 1993.
सिस्टर स्टेशन TV Land also reran the show from 1996–98 and again from 2003-06.
The series is currently broadcast every morning on This tv, along with Highway Patrol, and The Patty Duke Show.
It is also currently ब्रॉडकास्ट on Hallmark Movie Channel.
As of January 1, 2011, the first two seasons of the show are available on Hulu.
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 Thessalonians 4:17, when the `` dead in Christ '' and `` we who are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air ''.
The पद `` rapture '' is प्रयुक्त in at तनिक दो होश.
in the pre-tribulation दृश्य, a समूह of लोगों होगा be बाएँ पीछे on धरती बाद another समूह वस्तुतः पत्ते `` to मिलें the रब in the air. ''
This is now the most common use of the term, especially among fundamentalist Christians and in the United States.
The other, older use of the term `` Rapture '' is बस as a पर्याय लिये the फाइनल resurrection generally, without a belief that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
This distinction is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in religious education, but might उपयोग the पुरानी और अधिक general sense of the word `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the final resurrection.
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return ( including whether it will occur in one event or two ), and various views regarding the destination of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4.
Denominations ऐसे as रोमन catholics, परंपरागत ईसाइयों, Lutheran Christians, and Reformed Christians believe in a rapture only in the sense of a general final resurrection, when Christ returns a single time.
They do not believe that a group of people is बाएँ पीछे on धरती for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth Brethren, and popularized in the United States in the early 20th सदी by the चौड़ी परिसंचरण of the scofield Reference Bible.
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6, 1985 ) is an American professional basketball player with the ब्रुकलीन Nets.
The Philistine cities of Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Ekron, and Gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, Plištim ), Pleshet or Peleset, were a people who as part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the दक्षिणी coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 BC ), most probably from the Aegean region.
According to the Bible, they ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, Ekron and Gath, from Wadi Gaza in the south to the Yarqon River in the north, but with no fixed border to the ईस्ट.
The बाइबल paints them as the Kingdom of Israel 's most dangerous enemy.
Originating somewhere in the Aegean, their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC, rising to a peak of 30,000 in the 11th century BC, of which the Aegean element was not more than half the total, and perhaps much less.
Nothing is known for certain about the original भाषा or भाषाएं of the philistines, however they were not part of the Semitic Canaanite population.
There is some limited evidence in favour of the assumption that the Philistines were Indo-European-speakers either from Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor.
Philistine-related words found in the Bible are not Semitic, and can in some cases, with reservations, be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots.
By the beginning of the 1st Millennium BCE they had अपनाया the सामान्य Canaanite language of the region.
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple choice test, administered by the United States सैन्य प्रवेश प्रसंस्करण कमांड, used to determine qualification for enlistment in the United States armed forces.
it is प्रायः offered to अमरीकी ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी जब वे हैं in the 10th, 11th और 12th ग्रेड, हालांकि anyone योग्य लिये enlistment may लो it.
Although the test is administered by the military, it is not ( and never has been ) a requirement that a test-taker with a qualifying score enlist in the armed forces.
In financial accounting, a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole proprietorship, a business partnership, a corporation or other business organization, such as an LLC or an llp.
Assets, देनदारी और स्वामित्व equity are listed as of a specific date, such as the end of its financial year.
A balance sheet is प्रायः वर्णित as a `` स्नैपशॉट of a कम्पनी 's वित्तीय कंडीशन ''.
Of the four मौलिक वित्तीय कथन, the संतुलन चादर is the तभी बयान जिससे applies to a सिंगल पाइंट in समय of a कारोबार ' पंचांग साल.
A standard company balance sheet has three parts : assets, liabilities and स्वामित्व equity.
The main categories of assets are प्रायः listed first, and typically in order of liquidity.
Assets हैं followed by the liabilities.
The अंतर between the एसेट और the liabilities is known as equity or the net assets or the net worth or capital of the company and according to the accounting equation, net worth must equal assets minus liabilities.
another रास्ता to dekh at the वही समीकरण is कि एसेट बराबरी देनदारी प्लस मालिक 's इक्विटी.
Looking at the equation in this way shows how assets were financed : either by borrowing money ( liability ) or by using the owner 's money ( owner 's equity ).
Balance sheets are usually presented with assets in one section and liabilities and net worth in the other section with the दो भाग `` balancing. ''
A business operating entirely in cash can माप its profits by withdrawing the entire bank balance at the end of the period, plus any cash in hand.
However, many businesses are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and उपकरण.
In other words : businesses have assets and so they can not, even if they want to, immediately turn these into cash at the end of each period.
Often, these व्यवसायों owe धन to आपूर्तिकर्ता and to tax authorities, and the proprietors do not withdraw all their original capital and profits at the end of each period.
In other words businesses also have देनदारी.
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly known as the.17 HMR, is a rimfire rifle cartridge developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002.
It descended from the.22 Magnum by necking down the.22 Magnum case to take a.17 caliber ( 4.5 mm ) bullet, and it is अधिक costly to shoot than traditional.22 caliber rimfire cartridges.
Commonly loaded with a 17 grain ( 1.1 g ) bullet, it can deliver muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The schaumburg Flyers were a professional baseball team based in Schaumburg, Illinois, in the United States.
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North American League, which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball, however, the team folded in March 2011, before they began play in the NAL.
इससे the 1999 season to the 2010 season, the Flyers played their home games at Alexian Field, near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway.
The team formerly played in Thunder Bay, ओंटारियो, where they were known as the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks.
The team was originally a member of the Northern League from 1993 to 2010.
On July 27, 2009, the Flyers played host to Battle of the Sexes II, which pitted the Flyers against the National Pro Fastpitch Softball Champions, the Chicago Bandits.
Played by official softball rules, the game was seen by an overflow record crowd of 8,918, and was won by the Bandits 4-2.
In 1999, the Flyers hired their first manager, Ron Kittle.
Kittle is best known for his playing days साथ the शिकागो White Sox, and former Chicago Cubs and White Sox player Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach.
During the early years of the franchise, Kittle did a series of TV commercials to promote the team, using the gimmick `` Ma Kittle. '' जहाँ he played both himself and his `` Ma. ''
The ads were successful at sparking some initial interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal away fans from the nearby Kane County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly successful Converse ads where Larry Johnson starred as both himself and `` Gramama. ''
At the end of the 2001 season, however, Kittle resigned from his managerial position, and Jim Boynewicz was hired to replace him.
In 2004, the Flyers made it to the Northern League Championship Series against the St. Paul Saints.
Despite leading the five-game series 2-1, Schaumburg eventually lost the series.
In Game 5, Flyers relief pitcher lyle prempas allowed a game winning grand slam by St. Paul infielder Marc Mirizzi in the ninth inning.
The Flyers appeared in the Northern League Playoffs four times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) लकिन never जीती the चैंपियनशिप.
Some famous players who played for the Flyers were former Oakland A 's outfielder ozzie Canseco and former Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / वाइस / ; born 7 कूच 1970 ) is an English film and theatre actress and former fashion model.
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity हॉल, कैम्ब्रिज in the early 1990s, then started working in television, appearing in Inspector Morse, the British mini-series Scarlet and Black, and the television film Advocates II.
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ), but her breakthrough role came in the film Chain Reaction ( 1996 ), leading to a high-profile role as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ).
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates, About a Boy, Constantine, The Fountain and The Constant Gardener, for which she received an Academy Award, a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle.
She has been labelled an `` English rose '' since her minor role in Stealing सौंदर्य ( 1996 ).
Weisz also works in theatre.
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of Noël Coward 's play डिज़ाइन लिये जीना, जिससे earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse production of Tennessee Williams ' Suddenly, Last Summer, and their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire.
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in the latter play earned उसके the आलोचकों ' Circle Theatre Award for Best Actress.
She has recently played Evanora in Oz the ग्रेट and Powerful.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ( acw ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the एक्सटेंशन of slavery into the western territories.
विदेशी powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King कपास `` कि वे would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the किनारा states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending गुलामी a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
in 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union सेना in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta और marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत.
इतिहासकार जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
Potato bread is a form of bread in which potato replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour.
It is cooked in a variety of methods, including by baking it on a hot griddle or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, and may have a variety of अन्य संघटक baked into it.
The ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly from recipe to recipe, with some व्यंजनों having a majority of potato, and others having a majority of wheat flour.
कुछ व्यंजनों कॉल लिये mashed आलू, साथ अन्य कॉलिंग लिये निर्जलित potato flakes.
It is available as a वाणिज्यिक product in many countries, with similar variations in ingredients, cooking method, and other variables.
The Pacific Time Zone observes standard time by subtracting eight hours from समन्वित Universal Time ( ).
the क्लॉक समय in इस मण्डल is आधारित on the औसत सौर समय of the 120th मध्याह्न वेस्ट of the ग्रीनविच वेधशाला.
दौरान daylight छायांकन समय, इसके समय ऑफसेट is.
In the United States and Canada, this time zone is generically called प्रशांत समय ( PT ).
Specifically, it is Pacific Standard Time ( PST ) when observing standard time ( winter ), and Pacific Daylight Time ( PDT ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ).
सबसे of Canada uses daylight saving time.
In Mexico the UTC−8 time zone is known as the Northwest Zone, which is synchronized with the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule.
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone is Los Angeles in California from USA ; the city 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone.
The zone is एक घंटा ahead of the Alaska Time Zone, one hour behind the Mountain Time Zone and three hours behind the Eastern Time Zone.
Stereo 8, commonly known as the eight-track cartridge, eight-track tape, or simply eight-track, is a magnetic tape sound recording technology.
It was popular in the United States from the mid-1960s through to the early 1980s, but was relatively unknown in many European देशों.
It was, however, very popular in the संयुक्त Kingdom during this period.
Stereo 8 was created in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill Lear of Lear Jet Corporation, along with Ampex, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Motorola, and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ).
It was a further development of the similar Stereo-Pak four-track cartridge created by अर्ल `` madman '' Muntz.
A later quadraphonic version of the format was announced by RCA in April 1970 and first known as Quad-8, then later changed to just Q8.
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian :, alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or ), referred to as Ramesses the Great, was the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty.
He is often regarded as the greatest, most मनाये, और most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire.
His successors and later Egyptians called उसे the `` Great Ancestor. ''
Ramesses II led अनेक सैन्य रिझाने into the Levant, re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan.
He also led रिझाने to the south, into Nubia, commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein.
At age fourteen, रामेसेस was appointed Prince Regent by his father Seti I.
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled Egypt from 1279 BC to 1213 BC for 66 years and 2 months, according to both Manetho and Egypt 's contemporary historical records.
he थी एकबार कहा to have जिया to be 99 सालो बूढ़ा, लकिन it is अधिक संभावित कि he died in उसके 90th or 91st साल.
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as most Egyptologists today believe, he would have assumed the throne on May 31, 1279 BC, based on his known accession date of III Shemu day 27.
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the first held after thirty years of a pharaoh 's reign, and then every three years ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh.
On his death, he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of the Kings ; his body was later स्थानांतरित to a royal cache where it was discovered in 1881, and is now on display in the Cairo Museum.
The early part of his reign was focused on building cities, temples and monuments.
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses in the Nile Delta as his new capital and प्रमुख आधार लिये उसके campaigns in Syria.
This city was built on the remains of the city of avaris, the capital of the Hyksos when they took over, and was the location of the main Temple of Set.
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources, from a transliteration into Greek of a part of Ramesses 's throne name,, `` Ra 's mighty truth, chosen of Ra ''.
The Texas Rangers are a professional baseball team located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, based in Arlington, Texas.
the रेंजरों मताधिकार is फिलहाल a सदस्य of the पश्चिमी प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's अमरीकी लीग.
चूंकि, the रेंजरों have निभाई in रेंजरों ballpark in आर्लिंगटन in आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास.
The team 's name is borrowed from the famous law प्रवर्तन agency of the same name.
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington Senators, an expansion team awarded to Washington, D.C., after the city 's first ballclub, the असली वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों, moved to Minnesota and became the Twins.
After the season, the new Senators moved to Arlington, Texas, and debuted as the Rangers the following spring.
The टेक्सास Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason, all following division championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the Rangers advanced पास्ट the Division Series for the first time, defeating the Tampa Bay Rays.
Texas then brought home their first American League Pennant बाद beating the New York Yankees in six games.
In the 2010 World Series, the franchise 's first, the Rangers fell to the सैन फ्रांसिस्को Giants in five games.
Their lone victory made them the पहला टेक्सास टोली to जीत a संसार श्रेणी game, the Houston Astros having been swept in their 2005 World Series appearance.
They repeated as American League champions the following year, then lost the 2011 संसार Series to the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games.
Gaius Julius Caesar (, July 100 BC – 15 March 44 bc ) थी a Roman general, statesman, Consul and notable author of Latin prose.
He played a critical role in the events that led to the demise of the Roman गणतंत्र and the rise of the Roman Empire.
In 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus and Pompey formed a राजनैतिक alliance that was to dominate Roman politics for several years.
Their कोशिशें to amass शक्ति through populist tactics were opposed by the conservative elite within the Roman Senate, among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero.
सीज़र 's conquest of gaul, समाप्त by 51 bc, विस्तारित रोम 's territory to the अंग्रेज़ी चैनल और the राइन.
Caesar became the first Roman general to cross both when he built a bridge across the Rhine and conducted the first invasion of Britain.
These achievements granted him unmatched military power and threatened to eclipse the standing of Pompey, who had realigned himself with the Senate after the death of Crassus in 53 BC.
साथ the gallic Wars concluded, the Senate ordered Caesar to lay down his military command and return to Rome.
Caesar refused, और चिह्नित उसके defiance in 49 bc by क्रासिंग the rubicon साथ a लीजन, leaving उसके प्रांत और illegally प्रवेश रोमन territory अंतर्गत बाहें.
Civil war resulted, from which he emerged as the unrivaled leader of Rome.
After assuming control of government, Caesar began a program of social and governmental reforms, including the creation of the Julian calendar.
He centralised the bureaucracy of the गणतंत्र and was eventually proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity ''.
But the underlying political conflicts had not been resolved, and on the Ides of March ( 15 March ) 44 BC, Caesar was assassinated by a group of senators led by Marcus Junius Brutus.
A new series of civil wars broke out, and the constitutional government of the Republic was never restored.
Caesar 's adopted heir Octavian, later known as Augustus, rose to sole power, and the era of the Roman Empire began.
Much of Caesar 's life is known from his own accounts of his military campaigns, and from other contemporary sources, mainly the letters and भाषणों of सिसरो and the historical writings of Sallust.
the later biographies of Caesar by Suetonius and Plutarch are also major sources.
Caesar is deemed to be one of the greatest military commanders of history.
भाषाई map of Nigeria, Cameroon, and Benin.
Sign in English, बाहर the University of Lagos
There are सैंकड़ों of languages spoken in Nigeria.
The major languages are Yoruba, Hausa, इग्बो, ईदो, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The official language of Nigeria, English, the former colonial language, was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
अंग्रेज़ी, however, remains an विशेष बचाना of the देश 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों, जिससे comprise तीन quarters of the देशों जनसांख्यिकी.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing three major African languages परिवारों : Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot, ( UK ) bird 's nest, bishop 's lace, and Queen Anne 's lace ( North America ) ) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, native to शीतोष्ण regions of यूरोपीय, दक्षिणपश्चिम Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia.
domesticated carrots are cultivars of a subspecies, Daucus carota subsp. sativus.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, the शीर्षक of संघीय न्यायधीश प्रायः अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in आलेख ii of the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter, acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge नियुक्त to ऐसे a अदालत may be categorized as a संघीय न्यायधीश ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ शामिल the मुख्य इंसाफ और संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत, सर्किट न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों of appeals, और ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों.
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii न्यायाधीशों '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, judges of the Court of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate, and their power derives from Article I instead.
See Article I and Article III अधिकरणों.
नेल किम फ़र्टाडो ( born दिसम्बर 2, 1978 ) is a कनाडाई सिंगर, songwriter और अभिनेत्री.
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and more 20 million singles, bringing her total sales to over 40 million records around the world.
Furtado first gained fame with her debut album, Whoa, Nelly !
, which spawned two successful singles, `` i 'm Like a Bird `` and `` Turn Off the Light ``. ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno Award for Single of the साल और a 2002 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.
In 2003, Furtado released Folklore, which produced तीन अंतरराष्ट्रीय singles— `` Powerless ( Say What You Want ) ``, `` Try `` and `` Força ``.
तीन सालो later she released Loose, a worldwide commercial success.
The album spawned four number-one hits : `` promiscuous ``, `` Maneater ``, `` Say It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) ``.
After a three-year break, she released her first full-length Spanish album, Mi Plan, and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album.
In 2012, फ़र्टाडो 's fourth English-language studio album, The Spirit Indestructible was released.
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous awards and accolades, including 2 Grammy Awards, 10 Juno Awards, 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame.
जीव of the Night is the tenth studio album by Kiss.
It is the band 's last album लिये कासाब्लांका Records, the only label the group had ever recorded for at that point.
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca founder and early Kiss supporter Neil Bogart, who had died of cancer during the recording sessions.
It is also the band 's last album अंकित साथ इक्का frehley credited as an आधिकारिक सदस्य ( जबतक 1998 's Psycho Circus ), and its first album with Vinnie Vincent as the initially uncredited lead guitarist ( Vincent would later be credited, but not featured pictorially on the cover, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
Touch is a crucial means of receiving information.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying stairs for visually impaired लोगों.
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the sensory modalities such as touch, temperature, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia, skeletal muscles, bones and joints, internal organs, and the cardiovascular system.
While touch is considered one of the five traditional senses, the impression of touch is formed from several modalities.
In medicine, the colloquial term `` touch '' is usually replaced with `` somatic senses '' to better reflect the variety of mechanisms involved.
Somatic senses are sometimes referred to as somesthetic होश, साथ the समझना that somesthesis includes touch, proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception.
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors.
Transmission of information from the receptors passes via संवेदी nerves through tracts in the spinal cord and into the brain.
Processing primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex.
The cortical homunculus was devised by Wilder Penfield.
At its simplest, the system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as heat ; this signal eventually passes to an area in the brain uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
The point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the brain is called a homunculus and is essential in the सृष्टि of a body image.
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) map is not immutable, however.
Dramatic shifts can occur in जवाब to stroke or injury.
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210 flowering plant species in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family magnoliaceae.
it is नामित बाद फ्रेंच वनस्पतिशास्त्री पियरे magnol.
magnolia is an ancient genus.
appearing before bees did, the flowers evolved to encourage pollination by beetles.
To avoid damage from pollinating beetles, the carpels of Magnolia flowers are extremely tough.
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have been found dating to 20 million years ago, and of plants identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago.
Another aspect of Magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral state is that the flower bud is enclosed in a bract rather than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals.
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic साथ अनेक अन्य flowering plants near the base of the flowering plant lineage such as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ).
The natural range of Magnolia species is a disjunct वितरण, with a main centre in east and southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North America, Central America, the West Indies, and some species in South America.
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas '' is an Irving Berlin song reminiscing about an old-fashioned Christmas setting.
According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the version sung by Bing Crosby is the best-selling single of all time, with estimated बिक्री in excess of 50 million copies worldwide.
Accounts vary as to when and where Berlin wrote the सोंग.
One story is that he wrote it in 1940, in warm La Quinta, California, while staying at the La Quinta Hotel, a frequent Hollywood रिट्रीट भी favored by writer-producer Frank Capra, although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there.
He often stayed up all night writing — he told his secretary, `` Grab your pen and take down this song.
I just wrote the best song I 've ever लिखा — हेक, I just wrote the best song that anybody 's ever written ! ''
cross-country स्कीइंग ( or xc स्कीइंग ) is a रूप of स्की touring in जिससे भागीदार propel themselves आरपार snow-covered मैदान using skis and poles.
The activity is popular in many places with large snowfields, primarily Northern Europe, Canada, and Alaska.
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing sport family, which includes ski jumping, Nordic combined ( cross-country skiing and ski jumping ), Biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ).
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of skiing that most resembles prehistoric skiing, particularly when done in the backcountry.
It is भी सम्बन्धित to Telemark skiing.
A use tax in United States is complementary to sales tax which means, if you buy a Taxable product/services without paying कोई बिक्री कर to vendor, you owe use tax.
You must self assess use कर and pay it directly to the state where the products were consumed or services were rendered.
Use tax typically is a tax on consumption but if you buy an item ( without paying sales tax ) and store it in your warehouse initially, use tax applies to that स्थान जहाँ goods यहूद stored.
Later on when the final consumption takes place at some other location, you are required to pay the अवकल of tax rate to the jurisdiction of ultimate place of consumption.
This really means that तुम do n't have to pay both Sales Tax as well as Use Tax on one transaction.
It is only एक or the other that you are required to pay on purchase of taxable products/services.
If vendor does n't charge any Sales tax on its invoice then it is the obligation of the buyer to स्वः assess उपयोग tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication.
उपयोग कर is generally चार्ज at the वही कर रेट of बिक्री कर लकिन in कुछ राज्य the कर रेट is अलग.
Use tax is भी termed as `` Consumption Tax '' or `` Consumer Use Tax ''.
A use tax is a type of excise tax levied in the United States by numerous राज्य सरकारें.
It is assessed upon tangible personal property purchased by a resident of the assessing state for use, storage, or consumption in that state ( not for resale ), regardless of where the purchase took place.
If a resident of a state makes a purchase within his home state, full sales tax is paid at the time of the transaction.
The use tax applies when a resident of the assessing state purchases an item that is not subject to his home state 's sales tax.
Usually, this is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering वस्तुएं through the mail, by phone, or over the Internet from other states.
The use tax is typically assessed at the same rate as the sales tax that would have been owed ( if any ) had the same goods been purchased in the state of residence.
For example, a resident of Massachusetts, with a 6.25 % `` sales and use tax '' on certain goods and services, purchases non-exempt goods or services in New Hampshire for use, storage or other consumption in Massachusetts.
अंतर्गत नई हैम्पशायर विधि, the नई हैम्पशायर विक्रेता collects no sales taxes on the goods, but the Massachusetts purchaser/user must still pay 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax.
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase, whatever taxes were paid by the purchaser to that state can be deducted ( as a tax credit ) from the 6.25 % owed for subsequent use, storage or consumption in Massachusetts.
With few exceptions, no state 's vendors will charge the native state 's sales tax on goods shipped out of state, meaning all goods ordered from out-of-state हैं essentially free of sales tax.
The purchaser is therefore required to declare and pay the use tax to his home state on these ordered goods.
The assessing jurisdiction may make the उपयोग कर देय annually, but some states require a monthly payment.
For example, where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on property brought in for use in the state, Vermont law requires filing a tax return ( Form SU-452 and payment ) by the 20th day of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee, a 5 % penalty per month, to a maximum of 25 %, plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties.
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or governmental agencies, purchases for resale in commerce, and purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business.
Also note that there are thousands of tax jurisdictions in the U.S. and many have ever-changing lists of specific types of goods and services that are not taxable.
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment of tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased and downloaded over the Internet for installation and use in मैसाचुसेट्स, regardless of where it originates.
However, the वास्तविक use of the same software downloaded by a Massachusetts resident to a server in another state remains a non-taxed `` service ''.
In contrast, Arkansas generally does not tax anything delivered over the Internet ( such as downloaded software or music ), except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` दूरसंचार services ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` वितरित thru a ठोस medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online, except `` custom software for a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if delivered on a disk.
In most cases, this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the sales tax laws of its own location, remote sellers have to deal with the use tax laws of many jurisdictions—up to प्रत्येक us राज्य और मोहल्ले कि प्रकृती उन्हें, if the कम्पनी रै a उपस्थिति or `` नेक्सस '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ).
In medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery, pulmonary vein, or pulmonary capillaries, together known as the lung vasculature, leading to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, और अन्य लक्षण, all of which are exacerbated by exertion.
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and दिल विफलता.
It was first identified by dr. अर्नस्ट von Romberg in 1891.
According to the most recent classification, it can be one of five different types : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or miscellaneous.
सही
सही
Sanuk, a division of Deckers Outdoor Corporation, is a footwear brand based in Southern California.
Sanuk, the Thai word for fun, was founded by Southern California native Jeff Kelley when he प्रारंभ making sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet.
The first product created was green carpeted and हकदार the `` Fur Real '' after one shop owner asked if the novelty sandal was `` For Real. ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores and not the intended surf shops.
The विलक्षणता अधिनियम थी followed up by a चन्दन लपेटा in तार जाल, a तेंदुआ छपाई संस्करण, और शैलियाँ बना आउट of a poncho सामग्री in a किस्में of रंगों.
Sanuk रै grown to शामिल style options for men, women and youth and is distributed across the United States and in over 50 countries throughout Europe, Asia, South America and Australia.
Sanuk centers itself around a positive lifestyle advocating the slogan, `` Smile, Pass it on ! ``.
In computer science, array programming languages ( also known as vector or multidimensional languages ) generalize operations on scalars to apply transparently to vectors, matrices, and higher dimensional arrays.
Array प्रोग्रामिंग primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस व्यापक विचार परिचय आंकड़ा हेरफेर.
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is not uncommon to find array programming language one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code.
APL, designed by Ken Iverson, was the first programming language to provide array programming capabilities.
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming Language '' and not to arrays per se. Iverson 's contribution to rigor and clarity was probably more important than the simple extension of dimensions to functions.
In the United States an annuity अनुबंध is निर्मित when an insured party, usually an individual, pays a life insurance company a single premium that will later be distributed back to the insured party over time.
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time, such as via fixed payments, until the death of the person or persons नामित in the contract or until a final date, whichever comes first.
However, the majority of modern annuity ग्राहक उपयोग annuities तभी to accumulate निधि free of income and capital gains taxes and to later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature.
अध्यक्ष Barack Obama.
Barack Obama with his first Supreme Court nominee, Sonia सोटोमायोर.
Following is a list of all United States federal न्यायाधीशों नियुक्त by अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा during his presidency.
As of April 30, 2013, 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the United States Senate, namely two Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States, 35 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts.
25 further nominations हैं फिलहाल प्रतीक्षारत सीनेट कार्रवाई.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of Appeals, 67 vacancies on the United States district courts and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the end of Obama 's second term.
Obama has not made any recess appointments to the federal courts.
Obama रै बना दो nominations to the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार, an आलेख iii ट्रिब्यूनल.
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United States Court of Federal Claims, an Article I court, to be Chief Judge of that court.
This is a सूची of airports in Mexico, sorted by location.
Mexico रै परिचय 1,834 airports, ranking 2nd in number of airports in North America, and 3rd in the world.
Only major National और International Airports are shown.
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a security, usually a bond, issued by a U.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these agencies are backed but not guaranteed by the US government since the agencies are private entities.
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan Marketing Association ( Sallie Mae ), Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ).
Agency securities are usually exempt इससे राज्य and local taxes, but not federal tax.
Agency debt is also पुकारा an agency security.
The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, a boiling water reactor.
The reactors are located inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the front of the cooling towers.
Three nuclear-powered American warships, ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers USS Bainbridge and USS Long Beach with USS Enterprise the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964.
Crew members are spelling out आइंस्टीन 's mass-energy equivalence formula E = mc2 on the flight deck.
the रूसी nuclear-powered हिमभंजक ns yamal on a 1994 संयुक्त expedition साथ the nsf.
Nuclear power is the उपयोग of sustained nuclear fission to generate heat and electricity.
Nuclear power plants provided about 5.7 % of the world 's energy and 13 % of the संसार 's electricity, in 2012.
In 2013, the IAEA report that there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( although not all are producing विद्युत ), in 31 countries.
In addition, there are approximately 140 naval vessels using nuclear propulsion in operation, संचालित by कुछ 180 reactors.
There is an ongoing debate about the use of nuclear उर्जा.
Proponents, such as the World Nuclear Association, the IAEA and पर्यावरणविद for Nuclear Energy contend that nuclear power is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, such as Greenpeace International and NIRS, believe that nuclear शक्ति मुद्राएँ many threats to people and the environment.
Nuclear power plant accidents include the Chernobyl disaster ( 1986 ), फुकुशिमा daiichi nuclear disaster ( 2011 ), and the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ).
There have भी been some nuclear-powered submarine mishaps.
Research into safety सुधार is continuing and nuclear fusion, believed to be safer, may be used in the future.
As of 2012, according to the IAEA, worldwide there were 68 civil nuclear power reactors under निर्माण in 15 countries.
In the US the licenses of almost half इसके reactors have been extended to 60 years, and plans to build another dozen are under serious consideration.
However, Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a rethink of nuclear energy policy in many countries.
Germany decided to close all its reactors by 2022, and Italy has बैन नाभिकीय power.
following फुकुशिमा, the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035.
Photograph of the Berlin Wall taken from the वेस्ट पक्ष.
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent East Germans from fleeing from साम्यवादी.
It was an iconic symbol of the Cold War and its fall in 1989 marked the end of the War.
the ठंडा युद्ध, प्रायः दिनाँक इससे 1947 to 1991, थी a sustained राज्य of राजनैतिक और सैन्य टेंशन between शक्तियां in the पश्चिमी bloc, वर्चस्व by the संयुक्त राज्य साथ नाटो among इसके allies, और शक्तियां in the पूर्वी bloc, वर्चस्व by the सोवियत संघ साथ साथ the वॉरसॉ अनुबंध.
This began after the success of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi Germany, leaving the USSR and the US as two superpowers with profound economic and राजनैतिक मतभेद.
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned Movement founded by Egypt, India, and Yugoslavia ; इस गुट rejected association with either the US-led West or the Soviet-led East.
The Cold War was so named because the two major powers—each possessing nuclear weapons and thereby threatened with mutual assured destruction —never met in direct military combat.
बजाय, in उनके संघर्ष लिये वैश्विक influence वे सगाई in जारी मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare और in नियमित अप्रत्यक्ष confrontations through प्रॉक्सी युद्धों.
Cycles of relative calm would be followed by high tension, which could have led to world war.
The tensest times were during the बर्लिन नाकेबंदी ( 1948–1949 ), the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ), the Berlin Crisis of 1961, the Cuban missile crisis ( 1962 ), the Vietnam War ( 1959–1975 ), the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ), the Soviet war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ), the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions, strategic conventional force deployments, extensive aid to client states, espionage, massive propaganda campaigns, conventional and nuclear arms races, appeals to neutral nations, rivalry at sports कार्यक्रम ( in particular the ओलंपिक ), और technological प्रतियोगिताओं such as the Space Race.
The US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in the Third World countries of Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia.
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war, both sides sought relief of political tensions through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the United States increased diplomatic, military, and economic pressures on the Soviet Union, at a time when the communist state was already suffering from economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the new Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures for national independence grew stronger in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, especially Poland.
They reached a breaking point when Gorbachev refused to use Soviet troops to support the faltering government of East Germany in late 1989.
भीतर सप्ताह सब the उपग्रह राज्य broke फ़्री इससे मास्को in a शांतिपूर्ण वेव of revolutions ( वहीँ थी कुछ हिंसा in रोमानिया ).
The pressures escalated inside the Soviet Union, where Communism fell and the USSR was formally dissolved in late 1991.
The United States remained as the world 's only superpower.
the ठंडा युद्ध और इसके कार्यक्रम have बाएँ a significant विरासत, और it is प्रायः referred to in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, विशेषकर in मीडिया featuring विषयवस्तु of espionage और the threat of नाभिकीय warfare.
Pikes Peak State Park is a राज्य पार्क of आयोवा, USA, featuring a bluff overlooking the Upper Mississippi River opposite the confluence of the Wisconsin River.
The park is operated by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
It is nearly a thousand acres ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
The nearest city is मैकग्रेगर, Iowa.
आयोवा राजमार्ग 76 approximately defines its northern boundary.
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes Peak, a विशेषकर high point overlooking the gorge of the Upper Mississippi, and like Pikes Peak in Colorado, is named for Zebulon Pike.
There are hiking trails, campgrounds and RV facilities.
Mountain bikes are permitted in certain portions of the park.
Aside from recreational development, the land in the park was never cleared and to a large extent remains as it was before the advent of white settlement.
It is part of a larger complex of parks, reserves and refuges which include Effigy Mounds National Monument, the various components of the Yellow River State Forest, the enormous Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller, much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge.
The Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing development, and will connect elements of these sites.
Zac Brown Band is an American country/folk band based in Atlanta, Georgia.
The lineup consists of Zac Brown ( lead vocals, guitar ), Jimmy De Martini ( fiddle, vocals ), John Driskell Hopkins ( bass guitar, vocals ), Coy Bowles ( guitar, keyboards ), Chris Fryar ( drums ), Clay Cook ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ).
The band has toured throughout the United States, including a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival.
They have also recorded five studio albums, and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken Fried ``, `` Toes ``, `` Highway 20 Ride ``, `` Free ``, `` As She 's Walking Away ``, `` colder मौसम ``, `` Knee Deep ``, `` Keep Me In Mind ``, and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in addition to the singles `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry ``, which peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
Talk radio is a radio स्वरूप containing discussion about topical issues.
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single व्यक्तिगत, और प्रायः feature interviews with a number of different guests.
Talk radio typically includes an element of listener participation, usually by प्रसारण live conversations between the host and listeners who `` call in '' ( usually via telephone ) to the show.
Listener contributions are usually screened by a show 's producer ( s ) in order to maximize audience interest and, in the case of वाणिज्यिक talk radio, attract advertisers.
Generally, the shows are organized into segments, each separated by a pause for advertisements ; however, in public or non-commercial radio, music is sometimes played in place of commercials to पृथक the program segments.
विसंगतियाँ of बात रेडियो शामिल रूढ़िवादी बात, hot बात, उदार बात और खेल बात.
While talk radio रै historically महरूम संबद्ध साथ am/fm, starting around 2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी लिये internet-based talk-radio shows became लागत प्रभावी in the रूप of podcasts.
Now, it is संभावित लिये an individual to use a variety of services to host an Internet-based talk-radio show without carriage by a traditional radio station.
In addition TV programming from talk and news outlets such as BBC, CNN, Bloomberg and Fox are now often available expanding the संसार of talk radio further.
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios, but a wide variety of other devices and services including PCs using iTunes, station directories such as Tunein, show directory smartphones with apps such as Stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family Hippidae, containing the following species:
Hippa adactyla fabricius, 1787
Hippa admirabilis ( thallwitz, 1892 )
Hippa alcimede ( De Man, 1902 )
Hippa australis Hale, 1927
Hippa carcineutes Holthuis & Manning, 1970
hippa celaeno ( de man, 1896 )
Hippa granulatus ( Borradaile, 1904 )
hippa hirtipes ( Dana, 1852 )
Hippa indica Haig, Murugan & बालकृष्णन नायर, 1986
Hippa marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot, 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
Hippa picta ( Heller, 1861 )
hippa strigillata ( Stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( Herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( Miers, 1878 )
It is closely सम्बन्धित to the genus Emerita, and species have often been transferred between the two genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially known as the Special Capital Region of Jakarta ( ), is the capital and largest city of Indonesia.
Located on the उत्तरपश्चिम coast of जावा, जकार्ता is the देश 's economic, cultural and political centre, and with a population of 10,187,595 as of November 2011, it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia, and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world.
The official metropolitan area, known as Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the initial syllables of Jakarta, Bogor, depok, tangerang और bekasi ), is the second largest in the world, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it.
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 Globalization and World Cities Study Group and Network ( GaWC ) research.
and has an area of.
This area has population of well over 28 million, बनाना it एक of the world 's largest conurbations in terms of number of inhabitants.
In 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the world 's 200 largest cities, a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171.
Jakarta has grown more rapidly than Kuala Lumpur, बीजिंग और बैंकॉक.
Established in the fourth century, the city became an important trading port for the Kingdom of Sunda.
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known as Batavia ) and has continued as the capital of Indonesia since the country 's independence was declared in 1945.
The city is the seat of the ASEAN Secretariat.
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport, and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter railways, and served by several bus lines running on सुरक्षित busways.
A typical home air कंडीशनिंग खिड़की unit.
Air conditioning is the process of altering the गुण of एयर ( primarily temperature and humidity ) to more favourable conditions.
More generally, एयर कंडीशनिंग can refer to कोई रूप of technological कूलिंग, हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन, or कीटाणुशोधन कि modifies the कंडीशन of एयर.
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con, AC or A/C, and not to be confused with the abbreviation for alternating current ) is a major or home appliance, system, or mechanism designed to change the air temperature and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air गुण at a दिए समय ).
The cooling is typically done using a simple refrigeration cycle, but sometimes evaporation is प्रयुक्त, commonly for comfort cooling in buildings and motor vehicles.
In construction, a complete system of heating, ventilation and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 Foot 7 पैर '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by American rapper Lil Wayne featuring label mate, Cory Gunz.
It is taken from उसके ninth studio album, Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on itunes on December 16, 2010.
it थी उत्पादित by `` a milli `` निर्माता बांग्लादेश.
The song samples `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) `` by Harry Belafonte.
DC Talk ( styled as dc Talk ), is a Grammy -winning Christian rap trio.
The group was formed in lynchburg, Virginia in 1987 by Toby McKeehan, Michael Tait, and Kevin Max Smith.
They have released five major studio albums together : DC Talk ( 1989 ), nu Thang ( 1990 ), Free at Last ( 1992 ), Jesus Freak ( 1995 ), and Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music called DC Talk `` the most popular overtly ईसाई act of all time. ''
In 2000, the group released an EP titled Solo जिससे contained दो solo songs from each member.
Since that time, DC Talk has been on an indefinite hiatus, and the three band members have each led solo careers.
They have performed and recorded individual songs together several times during the 2000s, although the group never officially reunited or disbanded.
the समूह 's musical स्टाइल विकसित significantly throughout उनके करियर.
Their first two releases, dc बात and Nu Thang, were of the hip hop genre.
DC Talk 's third album, Free at Last, also mainly took influence इससे the hip hop style, although their music began taking on a rock sound.
The trio 's last two albums, Jesus Freak and Supernatural, were predominantly pop rock.
The Bible is a compilation of many shorter books written at different times and later assembled into the biblical canon.
All but the shortest of these books have been divided into chapters, generally a page or so in length, since the early 13th century.
Since the mid-16th century, each chapter has been further divided into `` verses '' of a few short lines or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse, as in the case of, and sometimes वहीँ is अधिक than one sentence in a single verse, as in the case of.
As the अध्याय और verse divisions were not part of the original texts, they form part of the paratext of the Bible.
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text differ at various points from those used by Christians.
For instance, in Jewish tradition, the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses, making 116 more verses, whereas the established ईसाई practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions also occur in different places, e.g. in Hebrew Bibles is numbered as in ईसाई translations.
An index ( बहुवचन : indexes ) is a सूची of शब्द or वाक्यांश ( 'headings ' ) and associated pointers ( 'locators ' ) to where useful material relating to that heading can be found in a document.
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings will include names of people, places and कार्यक्रम, and concepts selected by a person as being relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book.
the संकेतक are typically page numbers, paragraph numbers or section numbers.
In a library catalog the words are authors, titles, subject headings, etc., and the pointers are call numbers.
Internet search engines, such as Google, and पूरा टेक्स्ट searching सहायता provide access to information but are not as selective as an index, as they provide non-relevant links, and may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect.
In United States financial regulation, a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report made by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ), an agency of the United States Department of the Treasury, regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin, एंड्रयू mccollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard students, but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support for students at various other universities before opening to high school विद्यार्थी, और आखिरकार to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the site.
Users must register before using the site, after which they may create a personal profile, add other users as friends, and एक्सचेंज संदेश, सहित स्वचालित सूचनाएं when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by कार्यस्थल, स्कूल or college, or other characteristics, and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of September 2012, Facebook has over one billion active उपयोक्ता.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, there are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10, violating the साईट 's शर्तें of सेवा.
In May 2005, Accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख in Facebook, and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot.
a जनवरी 2009 compete.com पढ़ाई क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा by विश्वव्यापी मासिक क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on earth did we stalk our exes, remember our co-workers ' birthdays, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly अद्वितीय U.S. visitors in May 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth started to stall in कुछ regions, with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an initial पब्लिक offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on the नैस्डैक on May 18, 2012.
सल्फोनेमाइड functional group
Hydrochlorothiazide is a सल्फोनेमाइड and a thiazide.
Furosemide is a सल्फोनेमाइड, लकिन नहीं a thiazide.
सल्फोनेमाइड or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of drugs.
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or sulpha drugs ) are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group.
कुछ sulfonamides हैं भी विहीन of जीवाणुरोधी कार्यकलाप, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are newer drug groups based on the antibacterial sulfonamides.
sulfa allergies are common, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives, such as sulfates and sulfites, which are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group, and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides.
This is a list of characters from जार्ज Lopez.
Domestic geese ( आंसर आंसर domesticus or आंसर cygnoides ) हैं domesticated धूसर geese ( either ग्रेलैग geese or swan geese ) रखा as मुर्गीपालन लिये उनके मांस, अंडे, और bas feathers चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स.
30 Seconds to Mars is an अमरीकी rock band from Los Angeles, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals, rhythm guitar, songwriter ), Shannon Leto ( drums, percussion ) and Tomo Miličević ( lead guitar, keyboards ).
Following the प्रस्थान of मैट Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007, Tim Kelleher became the bassist for the group, performing live only with both Jared and Miličević recording bass for studio recordings, while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009.
Previously, the group also featured guitarists Solon Bixler ( now of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ).
To date, 30 Seconds to Mars have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ), A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ), This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ), To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ), and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog, progressive metal and post-grunge, but they have also included emo, screamo, space rock and synthrock into their music.
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who were an influence on their work ) and Tool because of their use of philosophical and spiritual lyrics, concept albums and their use of experimental music.
A Christmas Story is a 1983 अमरीकी क्रिसमस कॉमेडी फिल्मी आधारित on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of लेखक और raconteur जां गड़रिये, आधारित on उसके किताब in परमेश्वर we विश्वास, सब अन्य अदा नकदी, साथ कुछ तत्व निकला इससे वांडा हिक्की 's रात्रि of सुनहरी यादें.
It was निर्देशित by bob Clark.
The film has since become a holiday classic and is shown numerous times on television during the क्रिसमस season on the network TBS, often in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress for being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A जो 's Crab Shack branch in San Diego, CA.
The building was initially a rowing club and was later परिवर्तित into the restaurant.
Joe 's Crab Shack is an American chain of beach-themed seafood casual dining restaurants owned by Ignite Restaurant Group.
Founded in Houston, Texas, the restaurant now operates locations all across the United States of America.
It serves seafood and American cuisine.
The रेस्तरां भी have a तोहफा दूकान that sells facetious t-shirts featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood choices.
It is based in ह्यूस्टन, Texas.
New York City Cruise Liner टर्मिनल in नरक 's Kitchen at 52nd Street.
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also known as the Luxury Liner Row or Manhattan क्रूज Terminal or New York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side.
The terminal consists of North River पियर 88, 90, 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between West 46th and West 54th Street.
( As a general rule, pier numbers in Manhattan can be संकल्पित by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street. )
Ships now dock at Piers 88, 90 and 92.
Pier 94 on the north side is now used for exhibition स्पेस.
Pier 86, once used by United States Lines, is now home to the USS Intrepid.
In 2003, the terminal संभाला 900,000 passengers.
The city is forecasting that 1.5 million will उपयोग the टर्मिनल by 2017.
The पियर हैं long and apart.
They were first समाप्त in 1935 to replace the Chelsea Piers as the city 's luxury liner terminal.
The new terminal was built to handle bigger ships that had outgrown the Chelsea Piers.
The piers were renovated in 1970 and are currently undergoing another $ 150 million renovation.
The renovated plans call for it to हैंडल तीन large ships at a time.
In doing renovations, the नगर is also considering decommissioning Pier 92.
Logo of the नई York Cruise Terminal.For
decades the terminal was the only ocean-going यात्री terminal in New York harbor.
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to handle comfortably only three large ships at a time, two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened in 2004 in Bayonne, New Jersey ( used by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ), and the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn, New York.
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to below West 42nd Street because when the terminal was built land had to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers.
The US Army corps of इंजीनियर्स, who control the waterfront dimension, would not extend the pierhead line farther into the river, so the city extended the pier by cutting away at the land.
The city earlier did this लिये the चेल्सी Piers ; however in Chelsea only landfill was taken away.
At the Passenger Terminal वास्तविक मैनहटन schist was taken away.
इससे downstream in the river
Many major passenger ships have docked there, including the RMS Queen Mary 2 and Freedom of the Seas, before the Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened.
The SS normandie caught आग और subsequently capsized at its Pier 88 berth during World War II.
The Normandie, renamed USS Lafayette, lies capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian Cruise Line 's soon to be newest ship the Norwegian Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal.
The city will spend $ 4 million to renovate and upgrade the cruise terminal to accommodate the ship.
This is an overview of the regular, recurring, and other characters of the tv श्रेणी ncis.
Christian right is a term used in the United States to describe right-wing Christian political groups that are characterized by their strong support of socially conservative policies.
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of Christianity to politics and public policy by proclaiming the value of those शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking to उपयोग those teachings to influence law and public policy.
In the U.S., the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a कोर of धर्मान्तरण Protestants that draws `` support from politically conservative Catholics, Jews, Mormons, and occasionally secularists '' who share their goals.
The movement has इसके जड़ें in अमरीकी politics going back as far the 1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s.
Their influence draws, in part, from grassroots activism as well as their focus on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative positions on मुद्दे सहित स्कूल दुआ, stem cell research, homosexuality, contraception, abortion, and pornography.
Although the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S., the movement has महरूम a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर in the राजनीती of Canada, The Netherlands, Northern Ireland and Australia, among others.
Far East Movement ( stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated fm ) is an अमरीकी हिप hop band quartet based in Los Angeles.
the समूह formed in 2003 और consists of kev nish ( केविन nishimura ), prohgress ( जेम्स roh ), j-splif ( jae choung ), और dj virman ( virman coquia ).
Far East Movement 's first claim to fame was their song `` Round Round '' featured in the Hollywood movie, The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift, and its subsequent soundtrack, वीडियो game and DVD.
Since `` Round Round '', the group has been featured on various network shows including,, Entourage, Gossip Girl, and Finishing the Game ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ).
Their single `` Like a G6 `` hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 Chart and on iTunes as well in late October 2010.
Far ईस्ट गति भी रै the भेद of होने the पहला asian-american समूह to earn a # 1 hit on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 in the संयुक्त राज्य.
LR44 is the आईईसी नामांकन for an alkaline 1.5 volt button cell, commonly used in small LED flashlights, digital thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, clocks, toys and laser pointers.
lr44 क्षारीय cell
The battery nomenclature is defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 मानक ( प्राथमिक बैटरी, part 3 Watch batteries ).
The letter L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a zinc negative electrode, manganese dioxide depolarizer and positive electrode, and an alkaline electrolyte.
R44 indicates a round cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086.
निर्माताओं have their own part numbers for IEC type LR44 batteries including:
LR44, LR44G, LR44GD, LR44H
LR1154, l1154, L1154C, L1154F, L1154G, L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 ( NSN )
1166a
AG13, A613, AG14, AG-14, G13A, G13-A
157, 303, 357
A76, GDA76, GP76A, GPA7, gpa75, GPA76, GPS76A,
1128MP, 208-904, A-76, CA18, CA19, CR44, D76A, KA, KA76, MS76H, PX76A, PX675A, RPX675, rw82, sb-f9, V13GA
4.5-volt, D, C, AA, AAA, AAAA, A23, 9-volt, CR2032 and lr44 बैटरी
Other types of बैटरी are or were made in the R44 size.
Formerly, mercury बैटरी were made as button cells ( types MR44 and NR44 ).
Zinc-air batteries प्रकार pr44 require air to work.
Silver-oxide batteries type SR44 may provide extra क्षमता compared to LR44 types but have slightly different voltage characteristics.
प्रदर्शन of a device meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be degraded with substitution of LR44 types.
Manufacturer 's numbers for silver oxide R44 size cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 ( energizer )
303/357 ( D357H )
Hurricane Katrina was the deadliest और सबसे destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.
It was the costliest natural disaster, as well as एक of the five deadliest hurricanes, in the history of the United States.
Among recorded Atlantic hurricanes, it was the sixth strongest overall.
At least 1,833 people died in the hurricane and subsequent floods, making it the deadliest U.S. hurricane चूंकि the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; total property damage was estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ), nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23, 2005 and crossed southern Florida as a moderate Category 1 hurricane, causing some deaths and flooding there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico.
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5 hurricane over the warm Gulf water, but weakened before making its second landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, August 29 in southeast Louisiana.
It caused कठोर विनाश along the Gulf coast from central Florida to Texas, much of it due to the storm surge.
The most significant number of deaths occurred in New Orleans, Louisiana, which flooded as the levee system catastrophically failed, in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland.
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, और the floodwaters lingered for weeks.
However, the worst property damage occurred in coastal areas, such as all Mississippi beachfront towns, which were flooded over 90 % in hours, as boats and casino barges rammed buildings, pushing cars and houses inland, with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach.
The hurricane surge protection failures in New Orleans are considered the worst civil engineering disaster in U.S. history and prompted a lawsuit against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers और बिल्डर of the तटबन्ध system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965.
जिम्मेदारी लिये the असफलताओं और बाढ़ थी रखी squarely on the फौज corps in जनवरी 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood डुवल, u.S. ज़िला अदालत, लकिन the संघीय एजेंसी could नहीं be आयोजित financially liable due to sovereign प्रतिरक्षण in the बाढ़ कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 1928.
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal, state and local governments, resulting in the resignation of Federal आपात Management Agency ( FEMA ) director Michael D. Brown, and of New Orleans Police Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass.
Several agencies including the United States Coast Guard ( USCG ), National Hurricane Center ( NHC ), and National Weather Service ( NWS ) were commended for their actions.
They provided accurate hurricane weather tracking forecasts with sufficient lead time.
Even the most insistent appeals from national, state and local public officials to residents to evacuate before the storm did not warn that the levees could breach and fail.
u.S. debt from 1940 to 2011.
रेड लाइनों indicate the `` कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक '' और ब्लैक लाइनों indicate the कुल नेशनल कर्ज़ or सकल पब्लिक कर्ज़.
The difference is the `` intragovernmental debt, '' which शामिल दायित्वों to government programs such as Social Security.
Stated as a formula, National Debt = Debt held by the Public + intragovernmental Debt.
The second panel shows the दो कर्ज़ आंकड़े as a प्रतिशत of U.S. GDP ( dollar value of U.S. economic production for that year ).
The top panel is deflated so every year is in 2010 dollars.
The United States public debt is the money borrowed by the federal सरकारी of the United States through the issuing of securities by the Treasury and other federal government agencies.
us पब्लिक debt consists of two components:
Debt held by the public includes Treasury securities held by investors outside the federal government, including that held by individuals, corporations, the Federal Reserve System and foreign, state and local governments.
Debt held by सरकारी खाते or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in accounts administered by the federal government that are owed to program beneficiaries, such as the Social Security Trust Fund.
Debt held by government accounts represents the cumulative surpluses, including ब्याज आय, of these accounts that have been invested in Treasury securities.
पब्लिक debt increases or decreases as a result of the annual unified budget deficit or surplus.
The federal सरकारी बजट deficit or surplus is the difference between government receipts and spending, ignoring intra-governmental transfers.
However, some spending that is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt.
historically, the US public debt as a share of GDP increased during wars and recessions, and subsequently declined.
For example, debt held by the public as a share of GDP peaked just after संसार युद्ध ii ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ), but then fell over the following 30 years.
in हाल दशकों, however, विशाल बजट deficits और the resulting increases in कर्ज़ have led to चिंता परिचय the long-term स्थिरता of the संघीय सरकारी 's फिस्कल नीतियों.
On 2 April 2013, debt held by the public was approximately $ 11.959 खरब or परिचय 75 % of GDP.
Intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion, giving a combined total public debt of $ 16.805 trillion.
As of January 2013, $ 5.6 खरब or लगभग 47 % of the debt held by the public was owned by foreign investors, the largest of which were the People 's Republic of China and Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each.
In basketball, an assist is attributed to a player who गुजरता the बॉल to a teammate in a way that leads to a score by field goal, meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket.
There is कुछ निर्णय involved in deciding whether a passer should be credited with an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer even if the खिलाड़ी who receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball.
However, the असली definition of an assist did not include such situations, so the comparison of assist statistics across eras is a complex matter.
Only the pass directly पहले the स्कोर may be गिने as an assist, so no more than one assist can be recorded per field goal ( unlike in other sports, such as ice hockey ).
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does not count as an assist in the NBA, but does in FIBA play ( only one assist is awarded per set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ).
Point guards tend to get the most assists per game ( apg ), as their role is primarily that of a passer and ballhandler.
Centers tend to get fewer assists, but centers with good floor presence and court vision can dominate a team by assisting.
Being inside the key, the center often has the best angles and the best position for `` dishes '' and other short passes in the scoring area.
Center Wilt Chamberlain led the NBA in assists in 1968.
A strong center with inside-scoring prowess, such as former NBA center Hakeem Olajuwon, can also be an प्रभावी assistor क्युकी the रक्षा 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters.
The NBA single-game assist record is 30, held by Scott Skiles of the Orlando जादू विरूद्ध the Denver Nuggets, on December 30, 1990.
the एनबीए रिकार्ड लिये सबसे करियर assists is आयोजित by जॉन स्टॉकटन साथ 15,806.
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK, when discussing प्रॉपर्टी कर in the संयुक्त States, or previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in accounting.
In the United States, it is a notional unit equivalent to of a United States डालर ( a दसवाँ of a cent ).
In the United Kingdom it was proposed during the decades of discussion on the decimalization of the पाउंड as a division of the pound sterling.
Several other currencies used the mill, such as the Maltese lira.
The term comes इससे the Latin `` millesimum '', meaning `` thousandth part ''.
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the Persian Wars ) were a series of conflicts between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia and city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC.
The collision between the fractious राजनैतिक संसार of the यूनानियों और the enormous empire of the Persians began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC.
Struggling to नियम the independent-minded cities of Ionia, the Persians appointed tyrants to rule each of them.
This would prove to be the source of much trouble for the Greeks and Persians alike.
In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to conquer the island of Naxos, with Persian support ; however, the expedition was a debacle and, pre-empting his dismissal, Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians.
This was the beginning of the Ionian Revolt, which would last until 493 BC, progressively drawing more regions of Asia Minor into the conflict.
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and Eretria, and in 498 BC these forces helped to capture and burn the पारसी क्षेत्रीय पूंजी of Sardis.
The Persian king Darius the Great vowed to have revenge on Athens and Eretria for this act.
the विद्रोह continued, with the two sides effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
In 494 BC, the Persians regrouped, and attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus.
At the Battle of Lade, the Ionians suffered a निर्णायक शिकस्त, और the विद्रोह collapsed, with the final members being stamped out the following year.
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the interference of the mainland Greeks, Darius embarked on a scheme to जीतें यूनानियों and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis.
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC, with the Persian general Mardonius conquering Thrace and Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the अभियान.
In 490 BC a second force was sent to Greece, this time across the Aegean Sea, under the command of Datis and Artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the Cyclades, before besieging, capturing and razing Eretria.
However, while en route to attack Athens, the Persian force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of Marathon, ending Persian efforts for the time being.
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of Greece, लकिन died in 486 bc और जिम्मेदारी for the conquest passed to his son Xerxes I.
In 480 BC, Xerxes personally led the second Persian invasion of Greece with one of the largest ancient armies ever assembled.
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by Sparta and Athens ) at the Battle of Thermopylae allowed the Persians to torch Athens and overrun most of Greece.
However, while seeking to destroy the combined Greek बेड़े, the फारसियों suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis.
The following year, the confederated Greeks went on the offensive, defeating the Persian army at the Battle of Plataea, and ending the invasion of Greece.
The allied Greeks followed up their success by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at the Battle of Mycale, before expelling Persian garrisons from Sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The actions of the general Pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated many of the Greek states from the Spartans, and the anti-Persian alliance was therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership, as the so-called Delian League.
the delian लीग जारी to अभियान विरूद्ध फारस लिये the अगला तीन दशकों, शुरूआत साथ the expulsion of the बाकी पारसी garrisons इससे यूरोपीय.
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC, the League won a double विजय that finally secured freedom for the cities of Ionia.
however, the लीग 's भागीदारी in an मिश्र विद्रोह ( इससे 460–454 bc ) resulted in a विनाशकारी शिकस्त, और further campaigning थी निलंबित.
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 BC, but achieved little, and when it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet समाप्त.
Some historical sources suggest the end of hostilities was marked by a peace treaty between Athens and Persia, the so-called सलाम of Callias.
Hooverville near Portland, ऑरेगॉन
A `` Hooverville '' is the popular name for shanty towns built by homeless people during the ग्रेट अवसाद.
They were named after Herbert Hoover, who was President of the United States दौरान the onset of the Depression and widely blamed for it.
The term was coined by Charles Michelson, publicity chief of the Democratic National Committee.
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25, 1975 ) is an American football क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the छठे round of the 1998 NFL Draft by the Green Bay Packers.
After a season on the practice squad and two seasons backing up Brett Favre, he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, and led Seattle to six playoff appearances and a Super Bowl appearance ; he was selected to three Pro Bowls and an All-Pro selection.
following टेन सीज़न साथ the सीहॉक्स, hasselbeck joined the टेनेसी टाइटन्स in 2011.
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the Indianapolis Colts in 2013 less than 24 hours after being released by the Tennessee टाइटन्स.
ICT is inevitably related to the कंप्यूटर संजाल.
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ), is often used as an extended synonym for information technology ( IT ), but is a more specific term that stresses the role of unified communications and the integration of telecommunications ( telephone lines and wireless signals ), computers as well as necessary enterprise software, middleware, storage, and audio-visual systems, which enable users to access, store, transmit, and manipulate information.
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s, but it became popular after it was used in a report to the UK government by Dennis Stevenson in 1997 and in the revised National Curriculum for England, Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000.
The term आईसीटी is अभी also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual and telephone networks with computer networks through a single cabling or link system.
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost बचत due to विलोपन of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual, building management and telephone network with the computer network system using a single unified system of cabling, signal distribution and management.
the पद infocommunications is प्रयुक्त in कुछ मामले as a shorter रूप of सूचना और संचार ( s ) प्रौद्योगिकी.
In fact Infocommunications is the expansion of telecommunications with सूचना processing and content handling functions on a common digital technology base.
For a तुलना of these and other terms, see.
For ICT Development Index around the संसार, see.
This is a list of characters from George लोपेज़.
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the atom ; in Thomson 's mathematical model the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly, in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic structure involves a dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson, who discovered the electron in 1897, was proposed in 1904 before the discovery of the atomic nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model.
In इस मॉडल, the अणु is रचित of electrons ( जिससे thomson स्टिल पुकारा `` corpuscles '', हालांकि G. J. stoney था प्रस्तावित कि अणु of विद्युत be पुकारा electrons in 1894 ) घिरी by a सूप of धनात्मक चार्ज to संतुलन the electrons ' ऋणात्मक आरोप, जैसे negatively चार्ज `` plums `` घिरी by positively चार्ज `` खीर ``.
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout the atom, but with many structures possible for positioning multiple electrons, particularly घूर्णन बजती of electrons ( see below ).
Instead of a soup, the atom was also sometimes कहा to have had a `` cloud '' of positive charge.
With this model, Thomson abandoned his earlier `` nebular atom '' hypothesis in which the atom was composed of immaterial vortices.
Now, at least part of the atom was to be रचित of thomson 's particulate ऋणात्मक corpuscles, although the rest of the positively charged part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 Thomson model was disproved by the 1909 सुनहरा foil प्रयोग of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden.
This was interpreted by Ernest Rutherford in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very high positive charge ( in the case of gold, enough to balance about 100 electrons ), thus leading to the रदरफोर्ड मॉडल of the atom.
Although gold has an atomic number of 79, immediately after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den Broek made the intuitive suggestion that atomic number is nuclear charge.
The matter required experiment to decide.
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) that the effective nuclear charge was very close to the atomic number ( Moseley found only one unit difference ), and Moseley referenced only the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford.
This कार्य culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the same year, in which a nucleus containing an atomic number of positive charge is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells.
Bohr had also प्रेरित Moseley 's work.
Thomson 's model was compared ( though not by Thomson ) to a British dessert called plum pudding, hence the name.
Thomson 's paper was published in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine, the leading British science journal of the day.
In Thomson 's view :... the atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive विद्युतीकरण,...
In this model, the electrons यहूद फ़्री to घूर्णन within the blob or cloud of positive substance.
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact that when an electron moved farther इससे the बीच of the धनात्मक cloud, it felt a larger net positive inward force, because there was more material of opposite charge, inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ).
In Thomson 's model, electrons were free to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, and spectra were to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits.
Thomson attempted to make his model account for some of the major spectral lines known for some elements, but was not notably successful at this.
Still, Thomson 's model ( along with a similar Saturnian ring model for atomic electrons, also put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings ), यहूद पहले harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom.
ठेठ strip of bacon.
Bacon is a cured meat prepared इससे a pig.
It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a dry packing ; the result is fresh बेकन ( भी ज्ञात as green bacon ).
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or months in cold air, or it may be boiled or smoked.
Fresh and dried बेकन is typically cooked before eating.
Boiled बेकन is ready to eat, as is some smoked bacon, but may be cooked further before eating.
Bacon is prepared from several different cuts of मांस.
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork, except in the United States, where it is almost सदा prepared from pork belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` fatty '', or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ).
The side cut has अधिक meat and less fat than the belly.
Bacon may be prepared from either of two distinct back cuts : fatback, which is almost pure fat, and pork loin, which is very lean.
Bacon-cured पोर्क loin is known as back bacon.
Uncooked pork belly bacon strips.
Bacon may be eaten smoked, boiled, fried, baked, or grilled, or used as a minor संघटक to flavor dishes.
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, especially game, e.g. venison, pheasant.
The शब्द is निकला इससे the बूढ़ा ऊँची जर्मनी bacho, अर्थ `` buttock '', `` हैम '' or `` पक्ष of बेकन '', और cognate साथ the बूढ़ा फ्रेंच बेकन.
In continental Europe, this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the United States ; it is used primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient, valued both as a सोर्स of मोटे और for its flavor.
In Italy, this is called pancetta and is usually cooked in small cubes or served uncooked and thinly sliced as part of an antipasto.
Meat from other animals, ऐसे as बीफ, मेमने, मुर्गा, goat, or turkey, may also be cut, cured, or otherwise prepared to resemble bacon, and may even be referred to as `` bacon ''.
Such उपयोग is common in areas with significant Jewish and Muslim populations.
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a स्वाइन carcass '' ; अन्य कटौती और characteristics must be separately qualified ( e.g., `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ).
लिये सुरक्षा, बेकन जरूर be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by trichinella, a parasitic roundworm जिससे can be नष्ट by हीटिंग, जमने, drying, or धूम्रपान.
Bacon is distinguished from salt pork and ham by differences in the brine ( or dry packing ).
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients, most notably sodium nitrite, and occasionally सोडियम नाइट्रेट or potassium nitrate ( saltpeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate are added to accelerate curing and stabilize color.
Flavorings such as brown sugar or maple हैं used for some products.
If used, sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried.
आज, a brine for ham, but not bacon, includes a large amount of sugar.
Historically, `` ham '' and `` bacon '' referred to different cuts of meat that were brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel.
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) (, codified in part at ) is a federal law which establishes minimum standards for pension plans in private industry and provides for extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with कर्मचारी लाभ योजनाएँ.
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of employee benefit plan participants and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the प्रकटीकरण of वित्तीय and other information concerning the plan to beneficiaries ;
establishing standards of conduct for plan fiduciaries ;
providing लिये उचित remedies और अभिगम to the संघीय न्यायालयों.
erisa is sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the पूरा देह of कानून regulating कर्मचारी लाभ योजनाएँ, जिससे हैं मिला मुख्यतः in the आतंरिक आय कोड और erisa itself.
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department of Labor, the Department of the Treasury ( particularly the Internal Revenue Service ), and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Illegal immigration to the United States is the act of foreign nationals entering the United States, without government permission and in violation of United States nationality law, or staying beyond the termination date of a visa, also in violation of the law.
A warning sign at the international boundary between the United States and Canada in Point Roberts, वॉशिंगटन.
A much different approach at the U.S.-Mexico border near El Paso, Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the Center for Immigration Studies to be about 11 million people, down from 12.5 million people in 2007.
Other estimates range from 7 to 20 million.
According to a 2005 Pew हिस्पैनिक बीच रपट, 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % were from other Latin American countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % were from Europe and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent School District is a school district based in Alvin, Texas ( USA ).
Alvin ISD is a large suburban school ज़िला दक्षिण of Houston in the communities of Alvin, Manvel, Pearland, Hillcrest, Rosharon, Iowa Colony, Liverpool, and Amsterdam.
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing western portion of the city including the new large master-planned communities of Shadow Creek ranch, दक्षिण Fork, and Southern Trails.
Alvin isd कवर of land.
In human anatomy, the ulnar तंत्रिका is a nerve which runs near the ulna bone.
The ulnar collateral ligament of कोहनी संयुक्त is in संबंध with the ulnar nerve.
The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the human body ( meaning unprotected by muscle or bone ), so चोट is आम.
This nerve is directly कनेक्ट to the छोटी उंगली, and the adjacent half of the ring finger, supplying the palmar side of these fingers, including both front and back of the tips, perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds.
One method of injuring the nerve is to strike the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly, or inferiorly with the elbow flexed.
The ulnar nerve is trapped between the bone and the overlying skin at this point.
This is commonly referred to as bumping one 's `` funny bone ''.
This name is thought to be a pun, based on the sound resemblance between the name of the bone of the upper arm, the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous ``.
alternatively, according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष it may refer to `` the peculiar सनसनी अनुभवी जब it is struck ''.
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, shortened Hogwarts, is a fictional British school of magic for students aged eleven to eighteen, and is the प्राथमिक सेटिंग लिये the पहला छह books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ), which she had seen at Kew Gardens some time before writing the series, although the names `` The Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th बेहतरीन स्कॉटिश शैक्षणिक स्थापना in a 2008 ऑनलाइन रैंकिंग, outranking एडिनबर्ग 's loretto स्कूल.
According to a director of the Independent Schools Network Rankings, it was added to the schools लिस्टिंग `` for fun '' and was then voted on.
The U.S. subprime mortgage crisis was a set of events and शर्तें that led to a financial crisis and subsequent recession that began in 2008.
It was characterized by a rise in subprime mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures, and the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages.
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008, with significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and the onset of a severe global recession.
There were many causes of the crisis, with commentators assigning different levels of blame to financial institutions, regulators, credit agencies, government housing policies, and consumers, among others.
A proximate cause was the वृद्धि in subprime lending.
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given year rose from the historical 8 % or lower range to approximately 20 % from 2004 to 2006, with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S.
A high percentage of these subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 for example, were adjustable-rate mortgages.
These two changes were part of a broader trend of lowered lending standards and higher-risk mortgage products.
Further, U.S. households had become increasingly indebted, with the ratio of debt to disposable personal income rising from 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When U.S. home prices अस्वीकृत steeply after peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' ability to refinance their loans became more difficult.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at higher interest rates ( causing higher monthly भुगतान ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, सहित subprime mortgages, widely held by financial firms globally, lost most of their value.
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed debt and other securities as part of a decline in the capacity and willingness of the private financial system to support lending.
Concerns about the soundness of U.S. credit and financial markets led to tightening credit around the world and slowing economic growth in the u.S. and Europe.
The crisis had कठोर, long-lasting consequences for the U.S. and European economies.
The U.S. entered a deep मंदी, with nearly 9 million jobs lost during 2008 and 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. housing prices fell nearly 30 % on average and the U.S. stock market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but housing prices remained near their low point and unemployment remained elevated.
Economic growth remained below pre-crisis स्तर.
Europe also continued to struggle with its own आर्थिक crisis.
Carl जंग in 1910.
Myers and Briggs extrapolated their MBTI theory from जंग 's कृतियाँ in उसके किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक Types.
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI ) assessment is a psychometric questionnaire designed to measure psychological preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions.
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by Carl Gustav Jung and first published in his 1921 book Psychological Types ( English edition, 1923 ).
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological functions by which we experience the world : sensation, intuition, feeling, and thinking.
One of ये four functions is dominant most of the time.
The original developers of the व्यक्तित्व inventory were Katharine Cook Briggs and her daughter, Isabel Briggs Myers ; these two, having studied extensively the work of Jung, turned their interest of human behavior into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use.
They began creating the indicator during World War II, believing that a knowledge of personality preferences would help women who were entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective ''.
The आरंभिक questionnaire grew into the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, which was first published in 1962.
The MBTI focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the value of naturally occurring differences.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have specific preferences in the way we construe our experiences, and these preferences underlie our interests, needs, values, and motivation '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, from her second studio album Born This रास्ता ( 2011 ).
It थी released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on April 15, 2011, four days ahead of its scheduled release.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents कि have haunted गागा in the पास्ट, और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the ऋणात्मक भाग of उसके जीवन कि वो ca n't एस्केप.
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one 's inner अंधेरा in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the single was designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally well received by critics, who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks, including `` Poker Face ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains three distinct hooks and a house -influenced break down.
Gaga explained कि the लाइनों बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण talk about her as beyond redemption, regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening, but was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song पहुँचे the शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट in सबसे प्रमुख म्यूज़िक बाज़ार, और भी पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the चार्ट in दक्षिण कोरियाई.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
it रै a biblical कथानक जहाँ reedus निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट और गागा निभाई मरियम magdalene.
The video portrays them as modern day प्रचारकों going to Jerusalem.
It शामिल the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus, and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
पहले इसके रिलीज, the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the video.
However, critics generally praised the वीडियो, नहीं finding any offensive content.
The video was nominated for two awards at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a क्रमांक of television shows, including The Graham Norton Show, Saturday Night Live, Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939april 1, 1984 ), born Marvin Pentz Gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept एल्बम What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became among the first artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul.
following a काल in यूरोपीय अंतर्गत a कर निर्वासन in the जल्दी 1980s, gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` यौन healing `` और the मध्यरात्रि प्रेम एल्बम.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has been मरणोपरांत honored by many institutions, including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
The अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन चित्र is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to producers working in the motion picture industry and is the only category in which every member is eligible to nominate for.
बेहतरीन चित्र is माना the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण of the अकादमी पुरस्कार, as it represents सब the directing, एक्टिंग, म्यूज़िक composing, लिखने, संपादन और अन्य प्रयत्न put forth into a film.
Consequently, Best चित्र is the फाइनल award and the conclusion of the annual Academy Awards ceremony.
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since 2002, showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago.
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure video game created by French developer Quantic Dream exclusively for the PlayStation 3.
The game is written और निर्देशित by Quantic Dream 's founder and CEO David Cage.
Heavy Rains story is a dramatic thriller modelled after film noir, featuring four protagonists involved with the mystery of the Origami Killer, a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims.
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next victim, while investigative journalist Madison Paige, FBI profiler Norman Jayden, and private detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity.
The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on स्क्रीन सम्बन्धित to motions on the controller, and in some cases, performing a series of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences.
The खिलाड़ी 's decisions and actions during the game will affect the narrative.
The main characters can be killed, and certain actions may lead to different दृश्यों और endings.
A playable demo was released on 11 फ़रवरी 2010.
The demo was released prior to this date for people who took part in a Four Day Challenge on 5 February 2010.
A patch to allow उपयोग of the प्लेस्टेशन Move controller to play the game was released in September 2010.
Heavy Rain was critically acclaimed and has sold over two million copies.
It won 2010 's खेल of the साल from CNN and Gaming Union, and Best PS3 Game of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN.
A modified version of the game was released titled Heavy Rain Edition Modifiée exclusively in फ़्रांस, aimed towards a younger audience.
In 2010, the game was included in the book 1001 Video खेल You Must Play Before You Die.
Total superannuation industry liabilities : सदस्यों निधि और reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988.
Annual कुल superannuation industry asset growth 1996-2005.
Superannuation in Australia refers to the arrangements which people make in Australia to have funds available for उन्हें in retirement.
In Australia, superannuation arrangements are government-supported and encouraged, and minimum provisions are compulsory for employees.
For example, employers are required to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries and wages ( currently 9 % ) into a superannuation fund, but people are encouraged to put aside additional funds into superannuation.
The minimum obligation required by employers is set to increase to 12 % gradually stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the conditions of release contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation Industry ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994.
This is a list of the characters from the American comedy-drama television series The Game.
Electoral College map showing the results of the 2012 U.S. presidential चुनाव.
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the popular vote in 26 states and the ज़िला of कोलंबिया ( denoted in blue ) to capture 332 electoral votes.
Former Governor Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) won the लोकप्रिय vote in 24 राज्य ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 electoral votes.
Cartogram representation of the चुनावी कॉलेज vote for the 2012 election, with each square representing one electoral vote.
The United States Electoral College is the institution that officially elects the President and Vice President of the United States every four years.
The President and Vice President are not elected सीधे by the voters.
Instead, they are elected by `` electors '' who are chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state basis.
Electors are apportioned to each state and the District of Columbia, but not to territorial possessions of the United States, such as Puerto Rico and Guam.
The number of electors in प्रत्येक राज्य is बराबर to the number of members of Congress to which the state is entitled.
The Twenty-third Amendment has always resulted in the District of Columbia having three electors.
There are 538 electors, based on there being 435 representatives and 100 सीनेटरों, प्लस the three electors from the District of Columbia.
Electors हैं pledged to particular presidential and vice presidential candidates, though unpledged electors are possible.
In all states, except Maine and Nebraska, electors are elected on a `` winner-take-all '' basis.
That is, all electors pledged to the presidential candidate who wins the most votes in a state become electors for that state.
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method '', selecting one elector within each congressional district by popular vote and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote.
Although no elector is required by संघीय law to honor a pledge, there have only been very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge.
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice President are elected और requires each elector to cast one vote for President and another vote for Vice President.
Critics argue कि the चुनावी College is inherently undemocratic and gives swing states disproportionate influence in electing the President and Vice President.
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the election of the president to the smaller states, as the minimum number of electors for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives.
On the other hand, the winner-take-all method of मतदान favors the larger states.
A number of संवैधानिक amendments have been proposed seeking to alter the Electoral College or replace it with a direct popular vote.
Barack hussein ओबामा ii ( ; born अगस्त 4, 1961 ) is the 44th और वर्तमान अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to थाम the दफ्तर.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School, where he was president of the Harvard Law Review.
He was a community organizer in Chicago before earning his law उपाधि.
He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught संवैधानिक law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004, कार्यशील unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives in 2000.
In 2004, Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate with his victory in the March Democratic Party primary, his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July, and his election to the Senate in November.
He began his presidential campaign in 2007, and in 2008, after a close primary campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination.
He then defeated Republican nominee John McCain in the general election, and was inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009.
Nine months later, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected president in November 2012, defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney, and was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013.
Early in his first term in office, Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great Recession in the form of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the कर राहत, बेरोजगारी Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, often referred to as `` Obamacare '' ; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.
In May 2012, he became the first sitting U.S. अध्यक्ष to सरेआम support same-sex विवाह and in 2013 his administration filed briefs which urged the Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases.
In foreign policy, Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop levels in Afghanistan, signed the New START arms control treaty with Russia, ordered U.S. military involvement in Libya, and ordered the सैन्य आपरेशन कि resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.
The Honda CBR1100XX Super Blackbird was a होंडा motorcycle made from 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja ZX-11 as the world 's fastest production motorcycle, and Honda succeeded with a top speed of.
Two years later the title passed to the Suzuki Hayabusa, which reached.
The Blackbird is named after the Lockheed SR-71, also a speed record holder.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record based on images
Sample view of an electronic health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically capable of being shared across अलग स्वास्थ्य care settings.
in कुछ मामले इस sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization status, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital signs, personal stats like age and वज़न, and billing information.
The Mariner up on the mast in a storm.
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by gustave Doré.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner ( originally The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere ) is the longest major poem by the English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads.
आधुनिक editions use a later revised version printed in 1817 that featured a gloss.
Along with other poems in Lyrical Ballads, it was a signal shift to आधुनिक काव्य and the beginning of British Romantic literature.
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines how web browsers and other user agents can automatically choose the appropriate proxy सर्वर ( access method ) for fetching a given URL.
A PAC file contains a JavaScript function “findproxyforurl ( url, host ) ”.
This function returns a स्ट्रिंग with one or more access method specifications.
These specifications cause the user agent to use a particular proxy server or to connect directly.
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back when a proxy fails to respond.
The browser fetches this pac file before requesting other URLs.
The URL of the PAC file is either configured manually or determined automatically by the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol.
Zendaya कोलमैन ( born सितंबर 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as Zendaya, is an American actress, singer and dancer.
she stars on the Disney Channel sitcom Shake It Up as Rocky Blue.
She has starred in two films and played one of the lead roles in the film Frenemies as Halley Brandon.
She voiced Fern in the pixie खोखला खेल.
She appeared in Good Luck Charlie as Rocky Blue and in a Good Luck Charlie and Shake It Up crossover title Charlie शेक it Up.
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode `` Walk The Prank '' and on A.N.T. Farm as Sequoia Jones in the एपीसोड `` Creative ConsultANT. ''
Zendaya is also a संगीतकार.
She signed a deal साथ हॉलीवुड रिकॉर्ड on August 8, 2012 and started recording songs for her debut album on August 12, 2012.
She released a सिंगल इससे an independent label called `` Swag It Out `` and another single with Bella Thorne called `` Watch Me, '' which is featured on the Break It Down album.
On March 20, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an album together called Shake It Up : Live 2 Dance, each have their own song on it, along with a mash-up of both songs together as one.
On August 21, 2012, Zendaya and Bella thorne released an EP called Shake It Up : Made In Japan.
zendaya रै a क्रिसमस सोंग पुकारा `` शेक सांता शेक, '' जिससे is on the डिज़्नी चैनल अवकाश प्लेलिस्ट cd, जिससे थी released on अक्तूबर 2, 2012.
On March 5, 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was released, entitled I < 3 Dance ; on it, Zendaya has two songs with Bella - `` Contagious Love '' and `` This Is My Dance Floor '' - as well as one solo song, `` Beat of My Drum. ''
This is a list of airports in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. state ), grouped by type and sorted by location.
It contains all public-use and military एयरपोर्ट in the state.
Some private-use and पूर्व एयरपोर्ट may be included where notable, such as airports that were previously public-use, those with commercial enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code.
आईओएस ( previously iphone os ) is a मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली विकसित और वितरित by ठहराना inc. originally released in 2007 लिये the iphone और ipod टच प्लेटफ़ॉर्म, it रै महरूम विस्तारित to support अन्य ठहराना डिवाइस ऐसे as the ipad और Apple TV.
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows Phone and Google 's Android, Apple does not license iOS for installation on non-Apple hardware.
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000 iOS applications, which have collectively been downloaded more than 30 billion times.
It था a 21 % share of the स्मार्टफोन मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली इकाई shipped in the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012, पीछे तभी google 's एंड्रॉइड.
In June 2012, it accounted for 65 % of mobile web data खपत ( including use on both the iPod Touch and the iPad ).
At the half of 2012, there were 410 million devices activated.
According to the खास मीडिया इवेंट held by Apple on September 12, 2012, 400 million devices have been sold through June 2012.
The user interface of iOS is based on the concept of direct manipulation, using multi-touch gestures.
Interface control elements consist of sliders, switches, and buttons.
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe, tap, pinch, and reverse pinch, all of which have specific definitions within the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the iOS operating system and its multi-touch interface.
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond to shaking the device ( one common result is the undo command ) or rotating it in तीन dimensions ( one common result is switching from portrait to landscape mode ).
iOS is derived from OS X, with which it shares the Darwin foundation.
iOS is Apple 's mobile version of the OS X operating system used on Apple computers.
In iOS, there are four abstraction layers : the Core OS layer, the Core Services layer, the Media layer, and the Cocoa Touch layer.
The current संस्करण of the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली ( आईओएस 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 gb of the यंत्र 's फ्लैश मेमोरी लिये the प्रणाली विभाजन, using roughly 800 mb of कि विभाजन ( varying by मॉडल ) लिये आईओएस itself.
iOS currently runs on iPhone, iPad, iPod touch और ठहराना tv.
The Plymouth Superbird is famous for its extremely high rear wing.
1987 audi Sport QuattroS1 with its large wings at Pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic device whose intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air movement across a body of a vehicle in motion, usually described as turbulence or drag.
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams, because in addition to directing air flow they also reduce the amount of air flowing underneath the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag.
Spoilers are often fitted to race and high-performance sports cars, although they have become common on passenger vehicles as well.
Some विघ्न हैं added to cars primarily for styling purposes and have either little aerodynamic benefit or even make the aerodynamics worse.
Spoilers for cars are often incorrectly confused with, or the पद used interchangeably with, wings.
Automotive wings are devices whose intended design is to generate downforce as air passes around them, not simply disrupt existing airflow patterns.
Mario, who serves as Nintendo 's mascot, is a fictional character created by game designer शिगेरू Miyamoto and voiced by Charles Martinet.
This is a list of video games where the अक्षर Mario plays a part, either as the protagonist, antagonist, supporting character, as part of an ensemble cast, as a cameo, or in a game within a game.
It does not include simple सन्दर्भ to the अक्षर, such as the portraits of Mario found in The Legend of Zelda : A Link to the Past.
The year indicated is the year the game was first released, most commonly in Japan ; games were sometimes released सालो बाद in other regions of the world.
The list includes ports, remakes and compilations.
It does n't include any आभासी Console re-releases.
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I Am A Man of Constant Sorrow '' ) is a traditional American folk song first recorded by Dick Burnett, a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky.
The song was originally recorded by Burnett as `` Farewell Song '' printed in a Richard Burnett songbook, circa 1913.
An early version was recorded by Emry Arthur in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public interest in the song was renewed after the रिलीज of the 2000 film O Brother, Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a सेंट्रल role in the film 's plot.
The song was also included in the film 's highly कामयाब, multiple-platinum selling soundtrack.
Josephson junction array chip विकसित by the National Bureau of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI derived unit for electric potential ( वोल्टेज ), electric potential difference, and electromotive force.
The volt is नामित in सम्मान of the इतालवी physicist Alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827 ), who invented the voltaic pile, possibly the first chemical battery.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of hohenberg, यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by gavrilo princip, one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the movement that later became known as Young Bosnia.
Serbian सैन्य officers stood behind the attack.
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the हत्यारे with bombs and pistols and trained them.
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine टनल of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914.
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian कंगारू अदालत on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and related records.
कार्यभार of जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing और हत्याएं of 28 जून is अत्यधिक विवादास्पद क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i एक माह बाद.
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a Spanish mission in Southern California, located in present-day San Juan Capistrano.
It was founded on All Saints ' Day November 1, 1776, by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order.
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano, a 15th century theologian and `` warrior priest '' who resided in the Abruzzo region of Italy, San Juan Capistrano has the distinction of being home to the oldest building in California still in use, a chapel built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel '' and `` Father Serra 's Church, '' it is the only extant structure where it has been documented that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass.
One of the best known of the alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया मिशन ( and one of the few missions to have actually been founded twice—others being Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ).
The site was originally consecrated on October 30, 1775, by Father Fermín Lasuén, but was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego.
The success of the settlement is evident in its historical records.
Prior to the arrival of the missionaries, some 550 natives were scattered throughout the local area.
By 1790, the number of converted Christians had grown to 700, and just six years later nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( हाल converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted कि साल alone, out of the total 4,639 souls converted between 1776 and 1847.
More than 2,000 former inhabitants ( mostly Juaneño Indians ) are buried in unmarked क़ब्रों in the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ).
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. John O'Sullivan, who recognized the property 's historic value and working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures, are buried at the प्रवेश to the कब्रिस्तान on the वेस्ट side of the property, and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt.
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the Mission : Fathers José Barona, Vicente Fustér, and Vicente Pascual Oliva are all entombed beneath the अभयारण्य floor.
The Criolla or `` Mission grape, '' was first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the first wine produced in Alta California emerged from the Mission 's winery.
The Mission entered a long period of gradual decline after secularization in 1833.
Numerous efforts were made over the years to restore the Mission to its former glory, but none met साथ ग्रेट कामयाबी until the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910.
बहाली प्रयत्न continue, और `` सेरा 's चैपल '' is स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये धार्मिक सेवाएं.
About half-a-million visitors, including 80,000 school children, come to the Mission each year.
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a renowned architectural wonder, the Mission is perhaps best known for the annual `` Return of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed प्रत्येक कूच 19 ( संत जोसेफ 's Day ).
Mission San Juan capistrano रै परोसा as a पसंदीदा विषय लिये अनेक notable कलाकारों, और रै महरूम immortalized in साहित्य और on फिल्मी numerous टाइम्स, शायद अधिक than कोई अन्य मिशन.
In 1984, a modern church complex was constructed just north and west of the Mission compound and is now known as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano.
Today, the mission compound serves as a museum, with the Serra Chapel within the compound serving as a chapel for the mission parish.
Better Off Dead is a 1985 American teen रोमांटिक कॉमेडी film starring John Cusack and written and directed by Savage Steve Holland.
It tells the story of high school student लेन myer जो is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him.
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome and commonly The Superdome ) is a खेल और प्रदर्शनी स्टेडियम, located in the Central Business District of New Orleans, Louisiana, USA.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the New Orleans modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis.
Its steel फ़्रेम covers a expanse.
Its dome is made of a Lamella multi-ringed frame and has a diameter of, making it the largest फिक्स्ड domed structure in the world.
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints, the NCAA 's Division I-A Tulane Green Wave football team ( the largest football stadium in Conference USA ), the State Farm Bayou Classic, the R+L Carriers New Orleans Bowl, the Allstate Sugar Bowl and, every fourth year, the BCS National Championship Game.
Because of the size and location in one of the major tourist destinations in the United States, the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of candidates being considered for major sporting events, such as the Super Bowl and the Final Four.
In 2005, the Superdome gained international attention of a अलग type when it housed thousands of people seeking shelter from Hurricane Katrina.
The building suffered extensive damage as a result of the storm, and was closed for many months afterward.
On October 3, 2011, it was announced that German automaker mercedes-benz purchased naming rights to the stadium.
The new name took effect on अक्तूबर 23, 2011.
It is the third stadium that has naming rights from Mercedes-Benz ( and first in the United States ), after the mercedes-benz एरिना, the स्टेडियम of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart, in Stuttgart, Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai, China.
Lobby of Jambo हाउस
Giraffe on the savannah at Jambo House
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is an African-themed deluxe resort at the Walt डिज़्नी संसार Resort.
It opened on April 16, 2001.
The resort is owned and संचालित by Walt Disney Parks and Resorts.
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the एनिमल किंगडम Resort Area, adjacent to Disney 's Animal Kingdom.
It gives guests the opportunity to view grazing wildlife outside their rooms and public areas in the resort within proximity of the animals, conveying the feeling of being in an African savanna.
the लोगों 's पार्टी, भी ज्ञात as the `` populists '', थी a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त राज्य स्थापित in 1891 दौरान the populist गति ( संयुक्त राज्य, 19th Century ).
It was most महत्वपूर्ण in 1892-96, and then rapidly faded away.
Based among poor, white cotton farmers in the South ( especially North कैरोलिना, अलबामा, और टेक्सास ) और hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ), it represented a radical crusading form of agrarianism and hostility to banks, railroads, and elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions, and in 1896 the Democrats endorsed their presidential nominee, William Jennings Bryan.
the शर्तें `` populist '' और `` populism `` हैं commonly प्रयुक्त लिये anti-elitist appeals in विपक्ष to स्थापित रूचि और मुख्यधारा पार्टियों.
भाषाई map of Nigeria, Cameroon, and Benin.
Sign in English, बाहर the University of Lagos
वहीँ हैं सैंकड़ों of भाषाएं बोला in सीरियल.
The major languages are Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, Edo, fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The official language of Nigeria, English, the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा, was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's urban elite, and is not widely spoken in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों, जिससे comprise three quarters of the countries population.
सीरियल 's भाषाई विविधता is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे, encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं परिवारों : afroasiatic, nilo-saharan, और niger–congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.
A series of कार्यक्रम led to the attack on Pearl Harbor.
War between Japan and the United States had been a possibility that each nation 's military forces planned for since the 1920s, though real tension did not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan.
Over the next decade, जापानी विस्तारित slowly into China, leading to all out war between the two in 1937.
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an effort to embargo all imports into चीन, सहित युद्ध आपूर्तियाँ purchased from the U.S.
This move prompted the United States to embargo all oil exports, leading the Imperial Japanese Navy to estimate that it had less than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the मौजूदा योजनाएँ to seize आयल संसाधन in the Dutch East Indies.
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` दक्षिणी संसाधन क्षेत्रफल '' to add it to the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific.
The Philippine islands, at that time an American territory, were भी a जापानी target.
The Japanese military concluded that an invasion of the Philippines would provoke an American सैन्य response.
Rather than seize and fortify the islands, and wait for the inevitable US counterattack, Japan 's military leaders instead decided on the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor attack, which they assumed होता negate the अमरीकी शक्तियां needed लिये the मुक्ति and reconquest of the islands.
Planning for the attack था begun in very early 1941, by Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto.
He finally won assent from the Naval High Command by, among other things, threatening to resign.
The attack was approved in the गर्मियाँ at an Imperial Conference and again at a second Conference in the fall.
Simultaneously over the year, pilots were trained, and ships prepared for its execution.
Authority for the attack was granted at the second Imperial Conference if a diplomatic result satisfactory to Japan was not reached.
After final स्वीकृति by सम्राट Hirohito the order to attack was issued at the beginning of December.
A आम office stapler
A आम school stapler
A stapler is a mechanical यंत्र that joins sheets of paper or similar material by driving a thin metal staple through the sheets and folding the ends.
Staplers are widely used in सरकारी, business, offices, homes and schools.
The word `` stapler '' can actually refer to a number of different devices of varying uses.
In addition to joining paper sheets together, staplers can also be used in a surgical setting to join tissue together with surgical staples to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ).
Typically, most staplers are used to जुड़ें multiple sheets of paper.
Paper staplers come in दो पृथक types : manual and electric.
Manual staplers are normally hand-held, although models that are used while set on a desk or other surface are not uncommon.
इलेक्ट्रिक staplers exist in a variety of different designs and models.
Their primary ऑपरेटिंग function is to join large numbers of paper sheets together in rapid succession.
कुछ इलेक्ट्रिक staplers can जुड़ें up to 20 चादरें at a समय.
Swallowing, known scientifically as deglutition, is the process in the human or एनिमल देह that makes something pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, and into the esophagus, while shutting the epiglottis.
If this fails and the object goes through the trachea, then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the human body it is controlled by the swallowing reflex.
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – August 11, 1868 ), of Pennsylvania, was a leader of the Radical रिपब्लिकन गुट of the Republican Party and a fierce opponent of slavery.
He was one of the most influential members in the इतिहास of Congress.
As chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means कमेटी, स्टीवंस, a witty, sarcastic speaker and flamboyant party leader, dominated the House from 1861 until his death.
He wrote much of the financial legislation that paid for the American Civil War.
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the prime leaders of the Radical Republicans during the war and Reconstruction era.
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply since his death as interpretations of Reconstruction have changed.
इतिहासकारों of the Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating American traditions of republicanism, depicting Stevens as a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
This highly negative characterization आयोजित sway into the 1950s.
The rise of the neo-abolitionist स्कूल in the 1950s led to a दमदार positive appreciation of Stevens ' work on civil rights for Freedmen.
A recent biographer characterizes him as, `` The Great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial justice for the Freedmen during Reconstruction, the only member of the House of Representatives ever to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
Overview of the translation of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA and the संश्लेषण of proteins by a ribosome
In आणविक जीवविज्ञान और आनुवंशिकी, translation is the process through which cellular ribosomes manufacture proteins.
It is भाग of the process of gene expression.
In translation, messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by transcription is decoded by the ribosome to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide, that will later fold into an active protein.
In bacteria, translation occurs in the cell 's cytoplasm, where the large and small subunits of the ribosome are located, and bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, translation occurs आरपार the झिल्ली of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis.
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of tRNAs with complementary anticodon sequences to that of the mrna.
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are chained together into a polypeptide as the mRNA passes through and is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker and ticker tape.
In many instances, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer membrane of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and releases the nascent प्रोटीन polypeptide अंदर लिये बाद vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell.
Many types of transcribed RNA, such as transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA, and small nuclear RNA, do not undergo translation into प्रोटीन.
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation, elongation, translocation and termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain, or polypeptide that is the product of translation ).
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes and assembled into proteins.
In activation, the correct amino acid is covalently bonded to the correct ट्रांसफ़र RNA ( tRNA ).
The amino acid is joined by इसके carboxyl group to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond.
When the tRNA has an amino acid linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
Initiation involves the small subunit of the ribosome binding to the 5 ' end of mRNA with the help of initiation कारकों ( IF ).
Termination of the polypeptide happens when the A site of the ribosome faces a stop codon ( UAA, UAG, or UGA ).
No tRNA can recognize or bind to this codon.
Instead, the stop codon induces the binding of a release factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex.
A number of एंटीबायोटिक act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, and puromycin, among others.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes, and thus antibiotics can specifically target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells.
A multimedia message on a मोबाईल phone.
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a standard way to send messages that include multimedia content to and from mobile phones.
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message Service ) capability that allowed exchange of text messages only up to 160 characters in length.
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets, although it is also popular as a विधि of delivering न्यूज और entertainment content including videos, pictures, text pages and ringtones.
The standard is developed by the Open Mobile Alliance ( OMA ), although दौरान विकास it was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups.
Smallpox was an infectious disease unique to humans, caused by either of two virus variants, Variola major and Variola नाबालिग.
The disease is also known by the Latin names Variola or Variola vera, derived from varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ).
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox '' or `` red plague '' ; the term `` smallpox '' was first used in Britain in the 15th सदी to फर्क variola from the `` great pox '' ( syphilis ).
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor ) was diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
smallpox localized in small blood vessels of the skin and in the mouth and throat.
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular rash and, later, raised fluid-filled blisters.
V. major produces a more serious disease and has an overall mortality rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also known as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, and Cuban खुजली ) which kills about 1 % of its victims.
Long-term complications of V. major infection शामिल characteristic scars, commonly on the face, which occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring, and limb deformities due to arthritis and osteomyelitis are less आम जटिलताओं, देखी in about 2–5 % of cases.
Smallpox is believed to have emerged in human populations about 10,000 BC.
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the pustular rash on the mummified body of Pharaoh ramses V of Egypt.
The बीमारी मारे an अनुमानित 400,000 europeans annually दौरान the closing सालो of the 18th सदी ( सहित पाँच reigning monarchs ), और थी जिम्मेदार लिये a तीसरा of सब दृष्टिहीनता.
Of all those infected, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died from the disease.
Smallpox was responsible for an estimated 300–500 लाख मौतों during the 20th century.
As recently as 1967, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) estimated that 15 million people contracted the disease and that two million died in that year.
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated, the other being rinderpest, which was declared eradicated in 2011.
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' is a song by the English rock band the Beatles.
Written by John लेनन और Paul McCartney, and recorded in October 1963, it was the first Beatles record to be made using four-track equipment.
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would ordinarily have gone straight to the top of the British record charts on its day of release ( 29 November 1963 ) had it not been blocked by the group 's first million seller `` She Loves You ``, the Beatles ' previous UK single, which थी having a resurgent वर्तनी in the शीर्ष स्थिति following तीव्र मीडिया कवरेज of the group.
Taking two सप्ताह to dislodge इसके पूर्ववर्ती, `` i want to थाम अपना हाथ '' ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये पाँच सप्ताह और remained in the uk शीर्ष पचास लिये twenty-one सप्ताह in कुल.
It was also the group 's first American number one, entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music industry.
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for seven weeks — before being replaced by `` She Loves You '', a reverse scenario of what had occurred in Britain, and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks.
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' became the बीटल्स ' best-selling single worldwide.
A gasser थी a प्रकार of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the United States in the late 1950s and continued until the early 1970s.
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s, which have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles are also lighter than an independent front suspension ), though a raised stock front suspension is common as well.
Common weight reduction techniques शामिल fiberglass देह panels, stripped interiors and plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ).
Because they were primarily built for racing, these cars typically had the engine swapped to a larger or more powerful one, the existing stock engine modified ( often heavily ) or both.
It was very common to fit a Roots supercharger and mechanical fuel injection, such as एक इससे algon, Hilborn, or Crower.
With form being dictated by function, their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly, largely due to front ends being raised higher than stock, to assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ).
Having their exhaust pipes exit through the front fender well is a common characteristic of gassers, as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes, pearls, and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts.
The name arose because वे competed in a gasoline -fueled drag racing class, rather than one using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the predecessor of the modern Funny Car.
Twelve-lead EKG of a 26-year-old पुरूष
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time, as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body.
The recording produced by this noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ).
An ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats, as well as the size and position of the chambers, the presence of any damage to the heart, and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart, such as a pacemaker.
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on human hearts, but may also be performed on animals, usually for diagnosis of दिल abnormalities or research.
Donald John Trump, Sr. ( born June 14, 1946 ) is an American business magnate, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व and author.
He is the chairman और अध्यक्ष of The Trump Organization and the founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts.
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the NBC reality show The Apprentice have made him a well-known हस्ती who was No. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
Trump is the son of Fred Trump, a wealthy New York City real-estate developer.
He worked for his father 's firm, Elizabeth Trump & Son, while attending the व्हार्टन स्कूल of the University of Pennsylvania, and in 1968 officially joined the company.
He was given control of the company in 1971 and renamed it The Trump संगठन.
In 2010, Trump expressed an interest in becoming a candidate for president of the United States in the 2012 election, though in May 2011, he announced he would नहीं be a candidate.
In December 2011, Trump was सुझाया as a possible vice presidential selection by Michele Bachmann, if she were to win the Republican nomination.
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke, written and first recorded in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964.
Though only a modest hit for Cooke in comparison with his previous singles, the सोंग came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement.
The song has gained in popularity and critical acclaim in the decades since its release, and is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is thermal energy generated and भंडारित in the Earth.
Thermal energy is the energy that determines the temperature of matter.
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the planet ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its सतह, ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), अर्थ धरती, और θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
at the कोर of the Earth, thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding cooler चट्टान.
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt, creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats चट्टान and water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
विश्वव्यापी, परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications.
geothermal शक्ति is लागत प्रभावी, विश्वसनीय, चिरस्थायी, and environmentally friendly, but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological अग्रिम have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources, especially for applications such as home heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth, but these emissions are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a result, geothermal power has the potential to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply मानवता 's उर्जा needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and exploration for deep resources is बहुत expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology, energy prices, subsidies, and ब्याज rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted research and उद्योग अनुभव, the लागत of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy लागत between two and ten cents per kwh.
Ownership of property may be private, collective, or common and the property may be objects, land/real estate, or intellectual property.
Determining ownership in law involves determining who has certain rights and duties over the property.
These rights and duties, sometimes called a 'bundle of rights ', can be separated and held by different parties.
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient philosophers, Plato and Aristotle, who held different opinions on the subject.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property created divisive inequalities, while Aristotle ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) thought private property enabled people to receive the full benefit of their labor.
Private property can circumvent what is now referred to as the “ tragedy of the commons ” problem, where people tend to degrade common property more than they do निजी property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for example, a private owner of a piece of oil-rich property, depending on his worldview, might be more interested in short-term financial gain than incremental use with an नजर toward अन्य 's चिंताएं ( e.g., those of future generations, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
While Aristotle justified the existence of private ownership, he left open सवाल of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate property between what is private and common and ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society.
Over the सहस्राब्दियों, and across cultures what can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the basis for many अन्य अवधारणाओं that form the foundations of ancient and modern societies such as money, trade, debt, bankruptcy, the criminality of theft, and private vs. public property.
Ownership is the key भवन ब्लाक in the development of the capitalist socio-economic system.
Adam Smith stated that one of the sacred laws of justice was to guard a person 's property and possessions.
The process and mechanics of ownership are fairly जटिल : एक can gain, transfer and lose ownership of property in a number of ways.
To acquire property one can purchase it with money, व्यापार it लिये अन्य property, receive it as a gift, steal it, find it, make, it or homestead it.
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money, exchanging it for other property, giving it as a gift, being robbed of it, it, or having it stripped from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
Ownership is self-propagating in that the owner of any property will also own the आर्थिक लाभ of that property.
`` What 's my नाम ? '' is a song recorded by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna, for her fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ).
Featuring अतिथि vocals इससे कनाडाई rapper Drake, the song was released as the second single from Loud on October 29, 2010 through Def Jam Recordings.
The R & B song was produced by the Norwegian production duo StarGate, and was written by the duo along with Ester Dean, Traci Hale, and Drake.
Lyrically, it incorporates themes of sexual intercourse and romance.
Music critics gave the song positive reviews, citing it some of Rihanna 's best vocal work to date ; there was a praise regarding its romantic nature, as well as its sexual tones.
`` What 's My Name ? '' थी a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी और अव्वल the us बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट, giving रिहाना उसके तीसरा number-one सिंगल in 2010, as खूब as उसके आठवीं overall on the चार्ट.
The song also topped the charts in Hungary and the United Kingdom and reached the top five in Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway and Slovakia.
the सोंग प्राप्त a नामांकन at the 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन rap/sung सहयोग.
An accompanying music video, directed by Philip Andelman, portrays a romantic encounter between Rihanna and Drake in a grocery store along with romantic scenes between the जोड़ी और रिहाना चलना through मैनहटन 's निम्नतर ईस्ट पक्ष.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live प्रदर्शन across both sides of the Atlantic, including Saturday Night Live in America and the series seven finale of The X Factor in the United Kingdom.
the latter प्रदर्शन resulted in an investigation from the country 's media regulator, Ofcom, for the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit.
A mathematical constant is a special number, प्रायः a real number, that is `` significantly interesting in some way ''.
Constants arise in many different areas of mathematics, with constants such as e ( mathematical constant ) | and pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as geometry, number theory and calculus.
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '', and what makes a constant `` interesting '', is ultimately a matter of स्वाद, और कुछ mathematical constants are notable more for historical reasons than for their intrinsic mathematical interest.
The more popular constants have been studied throughout the ages and computed to many दशमलव स्थान.
All mathematical constants are definable numbers and usually are also computable numbers ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ).
Elections to the United States Senate were held on November 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats.
( A special election on January 19, 2010 in Massachusetts was held earlier in the year. )
thirty-four of the seats were for six-year terms to the Senate 's `` class three '', and three were special elections for shorter terms.
Of the 37 elections, 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ) and 18 featured incumbent Republicans ( eight of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ).
After the previous elections ( in 2008 ), the United States Senate was composed of 58 Democrats, 40 Republicans, and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats.
Republicans won four seats आयोजित by retiring Democrats and Republicans defeated two incumbent Democrats.
This was the largest number of Republicans gains since the 1994 elections and also the first time since that election कि republicans सफलतापूर्वक defended all of their own seats.
This was the fourth consecutive election of `` class 3 '' senators where Democrats have failed to gain seats and the third consecutive mid-term election held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats.
Despite these Republican wins, however, the डेमोक्रेट retained a majority of the Senate with 51 seats plus 2 independents who caucus with them, compared to the 47 Republicans.
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year as the Sun reaches its highest or lowest excursion सापेक्ष to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere.
As a result, on the day of the solstice, the Sun appears to have reached its highest or lowest annual altitude in the sky above the horizon at local solar noon.
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( sun ) and sistere ( to स्टैंड still ), because at the solstices, the Sun stands still in declination ; that is, the seasonal movement of the Sun 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction.
The solstices, together with the equinoxes, are connected with the seasons.
In many cultures the solstices mark either the beginning or the midpoint of winter and summer.
The term solstice can also be used in a broader sense, as the date ( day ) when this occurs.
The day of the solstice is either the longest day of the year ( in summer ) or the shortest day of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics.
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29, 1935 ) is an American चट्टान और roll and country music singer-songwriter and pianist.
He is known by the nickname `` The Killer '' and is often viewed as “rock & roll 's first great wild man”.
An early pioneer of rock and roll म्यूज़िक, in 1956 Lewis made his first recordings at Sun Records.
`` Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the South, but it was his 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Going on `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide.
Lewis followed this in that same year when he recorded songs such as `` Great गेंदें of आग ``, `` breathless `` and `` High School Confidential ``.
Lewis sold अधिक रिकॉर्ड than Elvis Presley at this time.
However, Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll career faltered in the wake of his marriage to his young cousin.
he था little success in the charts following the scandal and his popularity quickly faded.
His live performance fees plummeted from $ 10,000 per night to $ 250.
In the meantime he was संकल्पित to gain back some of his popularity.
दौरान the जल्दी 60’s he किया n't have much चार्ट कामयाबी साथ few अपवाद ऐसे as `` कया 'd i कह ``.
His सजीव प्रदर्शन at this time were increasingly wild and energetic.
His album Live at the Star Club, Hamburg from 1964 is often regarded by many music journalists and fans as एक of the wildest और महानतम rock and roll concert albums ever.
After recording गीतों such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years with little success, in 1968 Lewis made a transition into country music and had hits with songs such as `` Another Place, Another Time ''.
This reignited his career and throughout the लेट '60s और '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts.
His # 1 country hits included `` To मेक प्रेम Sweeter For You ``, `` There Must Be More to Love Than This ``, `` Would You Take Another Chance on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee ``.
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock 'n ' roll past with songs such as a cover of the Big Bopper 's `` Chantilly Lace `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away ``.
In the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to audiences around the world and still releases new albums.
One such album, titled Last Man Standing, is his best selling to date at over a million copies बेची worldwide.
This was followed by औसत बूढ़ा Man which has received some of the best sales of Lewis’s career.
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both rock and country, won several ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, including a Lifetime Achievement Award.
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986, and his pioneering योगदान to the विधा has been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.
In 1989, his life was chronicled in the फिल्म ग्रेट गेंदें of Fire, starring Dennis Quaid.
In 2003, रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका सूचीबद्ध उसके बक्सा नियत सब कातिल, no फिलर : the anthology क्रमांक 242 on उनके सूची of `` 500 महानतम एल्बम of सब समय ``.
In 2004, वे क्रमित him number 24 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar Quartet and the Class of '55 album, which also included Johnny Cash, Carl Perkins, Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley.
Henry Louis Stephens, untitled watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a newspaper with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery ''.
The Emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका branch ( including the Army and Navy ) of the United States by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the American Civil War.
It was based on the president 's constitutional authority as कमांडर in chief of the armed forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress.
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free, and ordered the Army ( and all segments of the Executive branch ) to treat as फ़्री सब those enslaved in ten states that were still in rebellion, thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S.
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under rebellion, but as the army took control of Confederate regions, the slaves in those regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters.
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had already been subdued were immediately emancipated, and over 3 million अधिक यहूद emancipated as the Union army advanced.
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave states that were not in rebellion, nor to most regions already controlled by the Union army ; emancipation there would come after separate state actions and/or the December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S.
The Proclamation did not compensate the owners, did not itself outlaw slavery, and did नहीं make the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens.
It made the eradication of गुलामी an explicit war goal, in addition to the goal of reuniting the Union.
On September 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1, 1863.
None returned, and the order, signed and issued January 1, 1863, took effect except in locations where the Union had already mostly regained control.
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war, angered some Northern Democrats, energized anti-slavery शक्तियां, and weakened forces in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy.
It also lifted the spirits of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी दोनो in the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी राज्य, और led to अनेक स्लेव escaping उनके मास्टर्स और कार्यशील पीछे संघ लाइनों in अनुक्रम to have उनके emancipation enforced.
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by Zack Snyder and co-written by him and स्टीव Shibuya.
It is Snyder 's first film आधारित on an original script.
The film stars Emily Browning, Abbie Cornish, Jena Malone, Vanessa Hudgens, Jamie Chung, और कार्ला Gugino.
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young woman who is committed to a mental institution, as she makes a plan to escape the hospital before suffering a मस्तिष्कखंडछेदन.
The film was released in both conventional and IMAX theatres in the United States at midnight on March 25, 2011.
It received generally negative reviews from critics, but was a moderate box office success.
Front and back of Canon PowerShot A95, a typical pocket-size digital camera
haselblad 503cw with Ixpress V96C digital back, an example of a professional digital camera system
A डिजिटल कैमरा ( or digicam ) is a camera that takes video or still photographs by recording images on an electronic image sensor.
Most cameras sold today are digital, and digital cameras are incorporated into many devices ranging from PDAs and mobile phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles.
Digital and film cameras share an optical system, typically using a lens with a variable diaphragm to focus light onto an image pickup device.
The diaphragm और शटर admit the correct amount of light to the imager, just as with film but the image pickup device is electronic rather than chemical.
However, unlike film cameras, digital cameras can display images on a screen तत्काल बाद being recorded, and store and delete images from memory.
Many digital cameras can also रिकार्ड चलती video with sound.
Some digital cameras can crop and stitch pictures and perform other elementary image editing.
The inside and front of a Dell PowerEdge web server, a computer designed लिये रैक mounting
अनेक web servers may be used for a high traffic website, here four Sun Fire X4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the software ( the computer application ) that helps to deliver web content that can be accessed through the Internet.
The most common use of web servers is to host websites, but there are अन्य उपयोग ऐसे as gaming, data storage or running enterprise applications.
The American Red Cross ( ARC ), also known as the American National Red Cross, is a humanitarian organization that provides emergency assistance, disaster relief and education inside the United States.
It is the designated U.S. affiliate of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
आज, in जोड to घरेलू विपत्ति राहत, the अमरीकी रेड क्रॉस offers सेवाएं in पाँच अन्य क्षेत्रों : जातियाँ सेवाएं कि सहायता the मोहताज ; संचार सेवाएं और सुकून लिये सैन्य सदस्यों और उनके परिवार सदस्यों ; the संग्रहण, प्रसंस्करण और वितरण of रक्त और रक्त उत्पाद ; शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम on preparedness, स्वास्थ्य, और सुरक्षा ; और अंतरराष्ट्रीय राहत और विकास कार्यक्रम.
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of the United States Code, Section 3001, the American National Red Cross is governed by volunteers and supported by community दान, आय इससे स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा प्रशिक्षण and products, and income from blood products.
The अमरीकी Red Cross is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
The Chairman of the Board of Governors, serving her second three-year term, is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The current अध्यक्ष और Chief Executive Officer is Gail J. McGovern.
A मुर्गा in Kosovo
A rooster, showing wattles, earlobes and comb
A मुर्गा crowing ( with audio )
सही
a मुर्गा ( भी पुकारा a cockerel or मुर्गा ) is a पुरूष gallinaceous बर्ड.
It usually refers to a male chicken ( Gallus gallus ).
Immature male chickens less than एक year old are called cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the United States, and the term is widely used throughout North America, as खूब as ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई Zealand.
In the United Kingdom and Ireland the older term `` cockerel '' is more commonly used.
`` Cock '' is in general use as the name for a male of अन्य species of bird, for example `` Cock sparrow ''.
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching aloft to sleep at night, and is done by both sexes.
The rooster is polygamous, but can not guard several nests of eggs at once.
He guards the general क्षेत्रफल जहाँ his hens are nesting, and will attack other roosters that enter his territory.
During the daytime, he usually sits on a high perch, usually 3–5 feet off the ground to serve as a lookout लिये his flock.
He होगा sound a distinctive alarm call if predators are nearby.
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video game series, first published in अक्तूबर 1996 by मीडिया Factory in Japan.
In the US, it was initially published by Wizards of the Coast, the company that produces, in December 1998.
Nintendo took over publishing in जून 2003.
It is one of Nintendo 's last remaining strong links to its heritage as a playing card company.
Land Rover is a British car manufacturer with its headquarters in Gaydon, Warwickshire, United किंगडम जिससे specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
it is भाग of the जैगुआर जमीन रोवर समूह, a subsidiary of tata मोटर्स of इण्डिया.
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car brand in the world ( बाद Jeep ).
The Land Rover name was originally used by the Rover Company for one specific vehicle model, named simply the Land Rover, launched by Rover in 1948.
Over the following years it developed into a marque encompassing a range of four-wheel-drive models, including the Defender, Discovery, Freelander, दायरा Rover, Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque.
Land रोवर्स हैं फिलहाल समवेत in the company 's Halewood and Solihull plants, with research and development taking place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres.
Land Rover sold 194,000 vehicles worldwide in 2009.
Although the brand originates from the original 1948 मॉडल, जमीन रोवर as a company has only existed since 1978.
Prior to this, it was a product line of the Rover Company which was subsequently absorbed into the Rover-Triumph division of the British Leyland Motor Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of Rover in 1967.
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models, and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of bl’s खूब प्रलेखित कारोबार परेशानियों prompted the स्थापना of a separate Land Rover company but still under the BL umbrella, remaining part of the subsequent Rover Group in 1988, under the ownership of British Aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were broken up and privatised.
In 1994 Rover Group plc was acquired by BMW.
In 2000, Rover Group was broken-up by BMW and Land Rover was बेची to घाट मोटर Company, becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group.
In 2006 Ford purchased the रोवर ब्रांड इससे bmw for around £6 million.
This reunited the Rover and Land Rover brands for the first time since 2000 when the Rover group was broken up by BMW.
In June 2008, Ford sold both Land Rover और जैगुआर गाड़ियाँ to tata Motors.
इस sale also included the dormant Rover brand
The cover of the first DVD संकलन released by Aniplex of The New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth season of the Bleach दुश्मनी श्रेणी is named.
The श्रेणी is based on Tite Kubo 's manga with same name.
The episodes are directed by Noriyuki Abe and produced by TV Tokyo, Dentsu, और Studio Pierrot.
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a नई आत्मा reaper कप्तान, Shūsuke Amagai, and the mystery surrounding the Kasumiōji clan, one of the families that constitute the nobility of Soul Society.
The season began airing on April 23, 2008 in Japan on TV Tokyo and ended on October 7, 2008.
The English adaptation of the Bleach anime is licensed by Viz मीडिया, और इस चाप began airing on August 28, 2010 on Cartoon Network 's Adult Swim, and finished on January 29, 2011.
Five DVD compilations, each containing four एपीसोड of the ऋतु, have been released by Aniplex ; the first DVD compilation was released on November 26, 2008 and the fifth on March 25, 2009.
A DVD box will be प्रकाशित by Viz Media on December 13, 2011.
The episodes उपयोग three pieces of theme music : one opening theme and two closing themes.
The खोलने थीम is `` chu-bura `` by kelun.
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B, used for episodes 168 to 179, and the second closing theme is `` gallop '' by pe'zmoku, प्रयुक्त for the remainder of the episodes.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at one time माना to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, नेवाडा is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
तभी 8 काउंटी फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील brothels.
All फ़ॉर्म of वेश्यावृति हैं illegal in क्लार्क काउंटी ( जिससे contains the लास vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो ), कार्सन नगर, डगलस काउंटी, और lincoln काउंटी.
The other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution, but कुछ of ये काउंटी currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under नेवाडा विधि, as elsewhere in the country.
As with other countries, prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The East Coast of the संयुक्त राज्य, also known as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic Seaboard and commonly shortened to East Coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean.
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast are, from north to south, the U.S. states of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, वर्जिनिया, उत्तर कैरोलिना, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, जॉर्जिया, and Florida.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States, serving from 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. प्रतिनिधि and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
निक्सन थी born in yorba लिंडा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 और ड्यूक University School of Law in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat Nixon, moved to Washington to work for the federal सरकारी in 1942.
He subsequently परोसा in the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी दौरान संसार युद्ध ii.
Nixon was elected in California to the House of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, and elevated him to national prominence.
He was the running mate of ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower, the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served for eight years as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential अभियान in 1960, narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy, and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again for the presidency and was निर्वाचित.
Although निक्सन initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened राजनयिक संबंध between the two nations, and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
Domestically, his प्रशासन generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs, imposed wage and price controls, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of his vice president, Spiro Agnew, and a continuing series of खुलासे about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office.
After his resignation, he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on अप्रैल 18, 1994, and died four days later at the age of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft, Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
it थी introduced to the मार्केट by फाइजर in 1991.
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in वयस्क outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive, panic, and social anxiety disorders in both adults and children.
In 2011, it was the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail market, with 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to that of older tricyclic antidepressants, but its side effects are much less pronounced.
Differences with newer antidepressants are subtler and also mostly confined to side effects.
Evidence suggests that sertraline may work better than fluoxetine ( Prozac ) for some subtypes of depression.
Treatment of panic disorder with sertraline results in a significant decrease of the number of panic attacks and in improved quality of life.
लिये obsessive-compulsive विकार, sertraline is नहीं as प्रभावी as संज्ञानात्मक behavioral चिकित्सा ; the बेहतरीन परिणाम have महरूम हासिल by combining ये दो treatments.
Although approved for social phobia and posttraumatic stress disorder, sertraline leads to only modest सुधार in these conditions.
Sertraline also alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be प्रयुक्त in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment.
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of अन्य SSRIs, with high rates of nausea, diarrhea, insomnia, and sexual side effects ; however, it does not cause weight gain, and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women taking sertraline, the drug was present in significant concentrations in fetal blood, and was also associated with a higher rate of various birth दोषों.
Similarly to other antidepressants, the use of sertraline for depression may be संबद्ध साथ a उच्चतर rate of suicidality.
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama film directed by Robert Townsend, who co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans.
Distributed by 20th Century Fox, the film 's main cast शामिल टाउनसेंड, माइकल राइट, Leon Robinson, Harry J. Lennix, Tico Wells, Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers, and Diahann Carroll.
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the lives of several artists : The Dells, The Temptations, Four Tops, Wilson Pickett, James Brown, Frankie Lymon, Sam Cooke and अन्य ) फ़ॉलो the तीन दशक करियर of the r & b गायन समूह the पाँच Heartbeats.
the फिल्मी depicts the वृद्धि और fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist, Donald `` Duck '' Matthews ( portrayed by Townsend ), who serves as a narrator throughout the film.
However, a majority of the cinema is presented in a लगातार time line as opposed to traditional flash backs.
The film includes a significant amount of original music conceived by various artists for the film 's soundtrack, including singles such as `` A Heart Is a House for Love ``, `` We Have n't Finished Yet '', and `` Nothing But Love ''.
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29, 1991 however it was not made available to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary.
The फिल्म प्राप्त mixed reviews from critics.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown चैंपियन in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
He is considered to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all समय.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th सदी, the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top 100 U.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by Bold Ruler आउट of Somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at The Meadow in कैरोलीन County, Virginia.
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War, Secretariat was a large शाहबलूत colt and was given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, nasrullah, is भी the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई jockey Ron Turcotte, along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood लगभग tall, and weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
A typical 12 V, 40 ah lead-acid car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable battery that supplies electric energy to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting, lighting, ignition ) to power the starter motor, the lights, and the प्रज्वलन प्रणाली of a vehicle’s engine.
Automotive SLI बैटरी हैं प्रायः lead-acid type, and are made of six galvanic cells in series to provide a 12 volt system.
Each cell provides 2.1 volts लिये a कुल of 12.6 volt at full charge.
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors, often equipped with diesel engines, may have two batteries in series for a 24 volt system, or may have parallel strings of batteries.
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead and separate plates of lead dioxide, which are submerged into an electrolyte solution of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water.
This causes a रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया कि रिलीज electrons, allowing them to flow through conductors to produce electricity.
As the battery discharges, the acid of the electrolyte reacts with the materials of the plates, changing their surface to lead sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the chemical reaction is reversed : the सीसे सल्फेट reforms into lead dioxide and lead.
With the plates restored to their original condition, the process may now be repeated.
Battery recycling of automotive batteries reduces the need for resources required for manufacture of new batteries, diverts toxic lead from landfills, and prevents risk of improper disposal.
Full-time employment is employment in जिससे a व्यक्ति works a minimum number of hours defined as such by his/her employer.
Full-time employment often comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time, temporary, or flexible workers, such as annual leave, sickleave, और health insurance.
Full-time jobs are often माना करियर.
They generally pay more than part-time jobs, and usually carry more hours per week.
The Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) does not define full-time employment or part-time employment.
This is a matter generally to be determined by the employer ( US Department of Labor ).
The definition by employer can vary and is generally published in a company 's Employee Handbook.
Companies commonly require from 30–35 or 40 hours per week to be defined as full-time and therefore eligible for benefits.
Full-Time status varies between company and is often based on the शिफ़्ट the कर्मचारी must work during each work week.
The `` standard '' work week consists of पाँच eight-hour days, commonly served between 9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
While a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour days ; it may also consist of as little as nine hours for a कुल of a 36 घंटा कार्य सप्ताह.
Twelve-hour shifts are often three days per week, unless the company has the intention of paying आउट the employee overtime.
Overtime is legally paid out anytime an employee works more than 40 घंटों per week.
The legal minimum for overtime starts at Base Pay + One-Half.
The increased भुगतान is माना to compensate थोड़ा लिये the increased थकान जिससे a व्यक्ति अनुभवों on ऐसे long शिफ्ट.
शिफ्ट can भी be बहुत irregular, as in खुदरा, लकिन हैं स्टिल full-time if the जरूरी क्रमांक of घंटों is पहुँचे.
There are some situations where a person who needs full-time work is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker.
Seahorse is the title given to 54 species of marine मछली in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos अर्थ `` समुद्र दानव ''.
The नियंत्रित Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
the विधान निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
माया numerals
Maya numerals हैं a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral system used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization.
The numerals are made up of three symbols ; zero ( शेल आकार ), one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ).
For example, thirteen is written as three dots in a horizontal row above two horizontal lines stacked ऊपर each other.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, was the 36th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four people who served in सब four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961, including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic नामांकन in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's term and was elected President in his own right, winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld civil rights, public प्रसारण, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment, '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation.
meanwhile, जॉनसन escalated अमरीकी भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध, इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968, as अमरीकी हताहत soared और the सलाम प्रक्रम bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on university campuses in the u.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major शहरों बाद 1965, and crime rates soared, as his opponents raised demands for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended his bid for reelection.
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to सफल उसे.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the peak of modern उदारतावाद in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is क्रमित favorably by some historians because of his domestic policies.
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a c-21 स्टेरॉयड hormone involved in the female menstrual cycle, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species.
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones called progestogens, and is the major naturally occurring human progestogen.
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's television show Sesame Street.
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall bright primrose-yellow bird.
He can roller skate, ice skate, dance, sing, लिखें poetry, draw and even ride a unicycle.
But despite this wide array of talents, he is prone to frequent misunderstandings, on one occasion even singing the alphabet as one big long word ( from the song called `` ABC-DEF-GHI, '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering what it could ever mean.
He lives in a large nest behind the 123 Sesame Street brownstone and has a teddy bear named Radar.
Webtrends is a private company headquartered in Portland, Oregon, United States.
It provides web, social, and mobile analytics and other software solutions related to marketing intelligence.
The company was founded in 1993 and now serves more than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The दूसरी Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was the second major crusade launched from Europe.
The Second Crusade was started in response to the fall of the County of Edessa the previous year to the शक्तियां of Zengi.
the काउंटी had been founded during the First Crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098.
जबकि it थी the पहला जेहादी state to be founded, it was also the first to fall.
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene iii, और थी the पहला of the क्रूसेड to be led by European kings, namely Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany, with help from a number of other European nobles.
The armies of the two kings marched separately across Europe.
After crossing Byzantine territory into आनातोलिया, दोनो armies were separately defeated by the Seljuq Turks.
The main Western Christian source, Odo of Deuil, and Syriac Christian sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress, particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them.
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their armies reached जेरूसलम और, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus.
The crusade in the ईस्ट was a failure for the crusaders and a great victory for the Muslims.
it होता ultimately have a कुंजी influence on the fall of Jerusalem and give rise to the Third Crusade at the end of the 12th century.
The only success of the Second Crusade came to a combined force of 13,000 Flemish, Frisian, Norman, English, Scottish, and German crusaders in 1147.
Travelling from England, by ship, to the Holy Land, the army stopped and helped the smaller ( 7,000 ) Portuguese army in the capture of Lisbon, expelling its Moorish occupants.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as Walmart, is an American multinational retail corporation that runs chains of large discount department stores and warehouse stores.
The company is the संसार 's third largest public corporation, according to the Fortune Global 500 list in 2012, the biggest private employer in the world with over two million employees, and is the largest retailer in the world.
Walmart remains a family-owned business, as the company is controlled by the Walton family, who own a 48 percent stake in Walmart.
It is also one of the world 's most valuable companies.
The company was founded by Sam Walton in 1962, incorporated on अक्तूबर 31, 1969, and publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972.
It is headquartered in bentonville, Arkansas.
Walmart is also the largest grocery retailer in the संयुक्त States.
in 2009, it generated 51 percent of its US $ 258 billion sales in the U.S. from grocery business.
It भी owns और operates the Sam 's Club retail warehouses in North America.
By 1988, Wal-Mart was the most profitable retailer in the US, and by November 1990, it outsold K-mart.
By 1991 it outsold Sears in खुदरा, making it America 's largest retailer, a distinction it still holds.
Walmart has 8,500 stores in 15 countries, under 55 different names.
The कम्पनी operates under the Walmart name in the United States, including the 50 states and Puerto Rico.
It operates in Mexico as Walmex, in the United Kingdom as Asda, in Japan as Seiyu, and in India as Best Price.
It has wholly owned operations in Argentina, Brazil, and Canada.
Walmart 's investments outside North America have had mixed results : its operations in the संयुक्त किंगडम, दक्षिण America, and China are highly successful, whereas ventures in Germany and South Korea were unsuccessful.
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011 ), was a Northern Irish musician, most widely recognised as a singer and guitarist.
In a career dating back to the 1960s, Moore played with artists including Phil Lynott and Brian downey दौरान उसके किशोर, अग्रणी him to memberships with the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions.
Moore साझा the स्टेज साथ ऐसे ब्लूज़ और चट्टान luminaries as b.b. किंग, अल्बर्ट किंग, कोलोसियम ii, जार्ज हैरिसन और ग्रेग झील, as खूब as having a कामयाब सोलो करियर.
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high profile musicians, including a cameo appearance playing the lead guitar solo on `` She 's My Baby `` from Traveling Wilburys Vol. 3.
An उदाहरण of rack mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and organizations to मेक उनके जालस्थल accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies कि provide space on a server owned or leased for use by clients, as well as providing Internet connectivity, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other servers located in their data center, called colocation, also known as Housing in Latin America or France.
The scope of web hosting services varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting, where files can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing.
अनेक अंतरजाल service providers ( ISPs ) offer this service free to subscribers.
Individuals and संगठन may भी obtain Web page hosting from alternative service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often has a higher व्यय depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient लिये निजी web pages.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and application development platforms ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for applications like forums and content प्रबन्धन.
Also, Secure sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts, as well as other modules and सेवा अनुप्रयोग like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), which are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women 's reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy ( prenatal period ), childbirth and the postnatal period.
अनेक obstetricians हैं भी स्त्रीरोग, अर्थ वे perform in दोनो specialties.
In the United States, these physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
The Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912 ), were two American brothers, inventors, and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and building the world 's first successful airplane and making the first controlled, powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight, on December 17, 1903.
From 1905 to 1907, the भाइयो विकसित their flying machine into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft.
Although not the first to build and fly experimental aircraft, the Wright brothers were the first to invent aircraft controls that made fixed-wing powered flight possible.
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was their invention of three-axis control, जिससे enabled the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium.
इस विधि became मानक और remains मानक on fixed-wing वायुयान of all kinds.
From the beginning of their aeronautical work, the Wright brothers focused on developing a reliable विधि of pilot control as the key to solving `` the flying problem ''.
This approach differed significantly from other experimenters of the time who put more emphasis on developing powerful engines.
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel, the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any before, enabling उन्हें to डिज़ाइन और build wings and propellers that were more efficient than any before.
Their first U.S. patent, 821,393, did not claim invention of a flying machine, but rather, the invention of a system of aerodynamic control that manipulated a flying machine 's surfaces.
They gained the mechanical skills essential for their success by working for सालो in उनके shop with printing presses, bicycles, motors, and other machinery.
Their work with bicycles in particular influenced their belief that an unstable vehicle like a flying machine could be controlled and balanced with practice.
From 1900 until their first powered flights in late 1903, वे conducted extensive glider tests that also developed their skills as pilots.
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie Taylor became an important part of the team, building their first aircraft engine in close collaboration with the brothers.
The Wright brothers ' status as inventors of the airplane has been subject to counter-claims by various parties.
Much controversy persists over the many competing claims of early aviators.
America 's Next Top Model, Cycle 12 is the twelfth cycle of America 's Next Top Model and the sixth season to air on The CW network.
It premiered on March 4, 2009.
The cycle 's catch phrase is `` Get In The Fold. ''
The cycle 's promotional song is Lady Gaga 's `` The Fame ''.
The prizes for this cycle are:
A modeling contract with elite Model Management.
A fashion spread and cover in सत्रह.
A 100,000 अनुबंध with CoverGirl cosmetics.
The first half of the cycle took place in New York City, moving the दिखाएँ back from Los Angeles last season.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय destination for this cycle is São Paulo, Brazil, the series first visit to South America.
The number of girls was reduced to 13, the first time since Cycle 9, after being कायम at 14 in the last two cycles.
This was the last time Paulina Porizkova participated as judge.
The विजेता थी 20-year-old Teyona Anderson from Woodstown, New Jersey.
This season averaged 4.35 million viewers per episode.
exxon mobil निगम, or exxonmobil, is an American multinational oil and gas corporation headquartered in Irving, Texas, United States.
It is a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's Standard Oil company, and was formed on November 30, 1999, by the merger of Exxon and Mobil.
It is affiliated with Imperial Oil which operates in Canada.
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by revenue and in 2013, became the largest publicly traded company by market capitalization in the world.
The company is ranked # 5 globally in Forbes वैश्विक 2000 list in 2013.
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and, at then ( 2007 ) rates of उत्पादन, हैं अपेक्षित to last over 14 years.
With 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a combined daily refining capacity of, Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the world, a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870.
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors with daily production of 3.921 लाख boe ( barrels of oil equivalent ).
In 2008, this was approximately 3 % of world production, which is less than अनेक of the largest state-owned petroleum companies.
जब ranked by oil and gas reserves it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total.
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into one of the planet’s most hated corporations, able to determine American foreign policy and the fate of entire nations ''.
In terms of its environmental record, ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to them by dictatorships, such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s chief executive until 2005, थी `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and disliked government interference at any level ''.
The company was widely criticized for its slow response to cleaning its 1989 Valdez oil spill in Alaska.
This article is about the Globe Theatre of शेक्सपियर.
For the modern पुनर्निर्माण in लंदन, see Shakespeare 's Globe.
लिये अन्य उपयोग, देखिए ग्लोब थिएटर ( बहुविकल्पी ).
The Globe Theatre was a theatre in London associated with William Shakespeare.
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain 's Men, on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son, Nicholas Brend and grandson Sir Matthew Brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613.
A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614 and closed in 1642.
A modern reconstruction of the Globe, named `` Shakespeare 's Globe ``, opened in 1997 approximately from the site of the असली थिएटर.
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed by Frank Capra, based on the short story `` The Greatest Gift ``, which Philip Van Doren Stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945.
The film is considered one of the most loved films in American cinema and has become traditional viewing during the Christmas season, alongside लोकप्रिय क्लासिक such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol.
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey, a man who has given up his dreams in order to help others and whose imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings about the intervention of his guardian angel, Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ).
क्लेरेंस shows George all the lives he has touched and how different life in his community of Bedford Falls would be had he never been born.
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff competition at the time of its release, the film has come to be regarded as a classic and is a staple of Christmas television around the world.
Theatrically, the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 million, approximately twice the production cost, a figure it never came close to achieving in its आरंभिक release.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the complete box office failure that today everyone believes... it was initially a major disappointment and confirmed, at least to the studios, that Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see, money-making events they once were. ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100 best American films ever made, placing number 11 on its initial 1998 greatest movie list, and would also place number one on its list of the most inspirational American films of all time.
Data गोदाम Overview
In computing, a data warehouse or enterprise data warehouse ( DW, DWH, or EDW ) is a डेटाबेस used for reporting and data analysis.
It is a central repository of आंकड़ा जिससे is created by integrating data from one or more disparate sources.
Data warehouses store current as well as historical data and are used for creating trending reports for senior management reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons.
The data stored in the warehouse are uploaded from the operational systems ( such as marketing, sales etc., shown in the फिगर to the right ).
The data may pass through an operational data store for additional operations before they are used in the DW for reporting.
The typical ETL -based आंकड़ा गोदाम uses staging, data integration, and access layers to house its key functions.
The staging layer or staging database stores raw data extracted from each of the disparate सोर्स data systems.
The integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming the data from the staging layer often storing this transformed data in an operational data store ( ODS ) database.
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database, often called the data गोदाम database, where the data is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate facts.
The combination of facts and dimensions is sometimes called a star schema.
the access layer helps users retrieve data.
A data warehouse constructed इससे an integrated data source systems does not require ETL, staging databases, or operational data store databases.
The integrated data source systems may be considered to be a part of a distributed operational data store layer.
Data federation methods or data virtualization methods may be used to access the distributed integrated source data systems to consolidate and aggregate data directly into the data warehouse database tables.
नापसंद the etl-based आंकड़ा गोदाम, the एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों और the आंकड़ा गोदाम हैं सब एकीकृत चूंकि वहीँ is no परिवर्तन of आयामी or सन्दर्भ आंकड़ा.
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the drill down from the aggregate आंकड़ा of the आंकड़ा गोदाम to the transactional data of the integrated source data systems.
Data warehouses can be subdivided into आंकड़ा marts.
Data marts store subsets of data from a warehouse.
This definition of the data warehouse focuses on data storage.
The main source of the data is cleaned, रूपांतरित, cataloged and made available for use by managers and other business professionals for data mining, online analytical processing, market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ).
However, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform and लोड आंकड़ा, और to manage the data dictionary are also considered essential components of a data warehousing system.
Many सन्दर्भ to data warehousing use this broader context.
Thus, an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools, tools to extract, transform and load data into the repository, and tools to manage and retrieve मेटाडेटा.
Portland stone quarry on the आइल of Portland, England
An abandoned construction aggregate quarry near Adelaide, South Australia
A quarry is a type of open-pit mine इससे which rock or minerals are extracted.
Quarries are generally used for extracting building materials, such as dimension stone, construction aggregate, riprap, sand, and gravel.
They are often collocated साथ concrete and asphalt plants due to the requirement for large amounts of aggregate in those materials.
Open mines that produce minerals are typically referred to as open pit mines.
The word quarry can शामिल भूमिगत quarrying for stone, such as Bath stone.
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to Mormonism, the principal branch of the Latter Day Saint movement of Restorationist Christianity, which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s.
After Smith 's death in 1844 the Mormons followed Brigham Young to what would become the Utah Territory.
Today Mormons are understood to be सदस्यों of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ).
Some Mormons are also either independent or non-practicing.
The center of Mormon cultural influence is in Utah, and North America has more Mormons than any other continent, though the majority of Mormons live बाहर the संयुक्त राज्य.
mormons have developed a strong sense of communality that stems from their doctrine and history.
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a central geographic location, and between 1852 and 1890 a minority of Mormons openly practiced plural marriage, a form of religious polygamy.
Mormons dedicate large amounts of समय और संसाधन to सेवारत in their church, and many young Mormons choose to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
Mormons have a health code that eschews alcoholic beverages, tobacco, coffee, tea, and other addictive substances.
They tend to be very family-oriented, and have strong connections across generations and with extended family, reflective of their belief that families can be sealed साथ परे मौत और throughout शाश्वत.
Mormons also have a strict law of chastity, requiring abstention इससे sexual relations outside of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage.
Mormons self-identify as ईसाई, though some of their beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity.
Mormons believe in the बाइबल, as well as other books of scripture, such as the Book of Mormon.
वे have a अद्वितीय दृश्य of cosmology, और मानना कि सब लोगों हैं spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the example of Jesus Christ, and accepting his atonement through ordinances ऐसे as baptism.
They believe that Christ 's गिरिजाघर थी restored through Joseph Smith, and is guided by living prophets and apostles.
Central to Mormon faith is the belief that God speaks to his children and answers their prayers.
In financial accounting, एसेट हैं economic resources.
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of being owned or controlled to produce value and that is held to have positive economic value is considered an asset.
Simply stated, assets represent value of स्वामित्व कि can be converted into cash ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ).
The balance चादर of a firm records the monetaryJ.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest जेब CPA '', Wiley, 2005.There are different methods of assessing the monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet.
In some cases, the ऐतिहासिक Cost is used ; such that the value of the asset when it was bought in the past is used as the monetary value.
In other instances, the present fair market value of the asset is used to determine the value दिखाया on the balance sheet.
value of the assets स्वामित्व by the firm.
It is money and other valuables belonging to an individual or business.
दो major asset classes are tangible assets and intangible assets.
Tangible assets contain विभिन्न subclasses, including current assets and fixed assets.J.
Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 Current assets include inventory, while fixed assets include such items as buildings and equipment.J. Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
intangible एसेट हैं nonphysical संसाधन और अधिकारों कि have a मान to the कड़ क्युकी वे दे the कड़ कुछ दयालु of लाभ in the market place.
Examples of intangible assets are goodwill, copyrights, trademarks, patents and computer programs, and financial assets, including such items as accounts receivable, bonds and stocks.
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits सूचना through electrical and chemical signals.
A chemical signal occurs via a synapse, a specialized connection with other cells.
Neurons connect to each other to form neural संजाल.
न्यूरॉन्स हैं the कोर components of the बेचैन प्रणाली, जिससे शामिल the दिमाग, स्पाइनल cord, और परिधीय ganglia.
A number of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to touch, sound, light and numerous अन्य stimuli affecting cells of the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain.
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain and spinal cord, cause muscle contractions, and affect glands.
Interneurons connect neurons to other neurons भीतर the same region of the brain or spinal cord.
A typical neuron possesses a कोशिका देह ( प्रायः called the soma ), dendrites, and an axon.
Dendrites are पतला structures कि उठता इससे the कोशिका देह, प्रायः extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres और branching अनेक टाइम्स, giving वृद्धि to a जटिल `` dendritic पेड़ ''.
An axon is a special cellular extension that arises from the cell body at a site called the axon hillock and travels for a distance, as far as 1 meter in humans or even more in other species.
The cell body of a neuron frequently gives rise to अनेक dendrites, but never to more than one axon, although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates.
At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another.
There are, however, many exceptions to these rules : neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All neurons are electrically excitable, maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by means of metabolically driven ion pumps, which combine with ion channels embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium, potassium, chloride, and calcium.
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the फलन of voltage-dependent ion channels.
If the voltage changes by a large enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action potential is generated, which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon, and activates synaptic connections with other कोशिकाएं जब it arrives.
न्यूरॉन्स do not undergo cell division.
In most cases, neurons are उत्पन्न by special types of stem cells.
Astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have also been observed to turn into न्यूरॉन्स by पुण्य of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two brain areas, the hippocampus and olfactory बल्ब, वहीँ is दमदार प्रमाण for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons.
Super Bowl XLIII was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Pittsburgh Steelers and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season.
The Steelers defeated the Cardinals by the स्कोर of 27–23.
The game was played on February 1, 2009, at Raymond James स्टेडियम in Tampa, Florida.
With this win, the Steelers became the first team to win six Super Bowls.
Pittsburgh, who finished the regular season with a 12–4 record, also won their second Super Bowl in four years बाद जीतना सुपर Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season.
The Cardinals entered the game seeking their first NFL title since 1947, the longest चैंपियनशिप drought in the league.
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season, compiling a 9–7 record, and the playoffs with the aid of head coach केन whisenhunt, जो थी the स्टीलर्स ' अप्रिय coordinator in Super Bowl XL, and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner, who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team, St. Louis Rams.
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 halftime lead, aided by linebacker James Harrison 's Super Bowl record 100-yard interception वापसी लिये a touchdown.
Trailing 20–7 at the start of the fourth quarter, Arizona scored 16 unanswered points, including wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown रिसेप्शन, to लो the सीसे with 2:37 remaining in the game.
But the Steelers marched 78 yards to score on wide receiver Santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
Holmes, who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown, including four receptions for 73 yards on that final game-winning drive, was named Super Bowl MVP.
he became the sixth wide receiver to win the award, and also was the third Pittsburgh receiver to win the award, following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward.
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that are normally held before the game, the NBC television network broadcast आकर्षित an average U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers, making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point.
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum, showing various गुण आरपार the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all संभावित बारंबारता of electromagnetic radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम extends इससे नीचे the कम बारंबारता प्रयुक्त लिये आधुनिक रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of किलोमीटर bas to a भिन्न of the आकार of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more अनुप्रयोग ).
लेजेंड
marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes ( land plants ) that do not have true vascular tissue and are therefore called ' non-vascular plants '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport of water ; however since these do not contain lignin, they are not considered to be true vascular ऊतक.
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic group ; however the name is सुविधाजनक और remains in उपयोग as a collective term for mosses, hornworts, and liverworts.
bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia and sporangia ), but they produce neither flowers nor seeds, reproducing via spores.
The term bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant ''.
A bank is a financial institution and a financial intermediary that accepts deposits and channels those deposits into lending activities, either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A bank is the connection between customers that have capital deficits and customers with capital surpluses.
due to उनके influence भीतर a वित्तीय प्रणाली और an अर्थव्यवस्था, बैंको हैं generally अत्यधिक regulated in सबसे देशों.
Most banks operate under a system known as fractional आरक्षित banking where they hold only a small reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the rest for profit.
They are generally विषय to minimum capital requirements which are based on an international set of capital standards, known as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena, headquartered in Siena, Italy, which has been operating continuously since 1472.
It is followed by berenberg बैंको of Hamburg ( 1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ).
Banking in its modern sense evolved in rich cities of Renaissance Italy, such as Florence, वेनिस और Genoa.
In the history of banking, a number of banking dynasties —among उन्हें notably medici, Fugger, Welser, Berenberg, Baring and Rothschild —have played a central role over many centuries.
the एक्सबॉक्स is a वीडियो खेल कंसोल manufactured by microsoft.
It was released on November 15, 2001 in North America, February 22, 2002 in Japan, and March 14, 2002 in Australia and Europe.
It was microsoft 's first foray into the gaming console market.
As part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the Xbox competed with Sony 's PlayStation 2, Sega 's Dreamcast ( जिससे रोका अमरीकी बिक्री पहले the Xbox went on sale ), and Nintendo 's GameCube.
The Xbox was the first console offered by an American company after the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996.
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in November 2002 allowed players to play games online with a broadband कनेक्शन.
It पहला competed साथ dreamcast 's ऑनलाइन सेवा लकिन बाद primarily competed साथ प्लेस्टेशन 2 's ऑनलाइन सेवा.
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription, as well as broadband-only connection which was not completely adopted yet, Xbox Live was a success due to better servers, features such as a buddy list, and milestone titles like Halo 2 released in November 2004, which is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years.
Xbox 's successor, the Xbox 360, थी launched in November 2005.
The Xbox was discontinued in late 2005 in Japan जहाँ sales were poor.
It was discontinued in late 2006 in Europe and early 2007 in North America.
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's Project 8 released in November 2006, and the last game in उत्तर अमेरिका was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008.
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2, 2009, stating that any in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken.
Xbox access to Xbox Live was stopped on April 15, 2010.
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the Gospel of John or simply John and often referred to in New Testament scholarship as the चौथी इन्जील, is an account of the public ministry of Jesus.
It begins with the witness and affirmation by John the Baptist and concludes with the death, burial, resurrection, and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus.
This account is fourth of the canonical gospels, बाद the synoptics Matthew, Mark and Luke.
states that the book derives from the testimony of the ' disciple whom Jesus loved. '
Along with Peter, the unnamed disciple is especially close to Jesus, and early-church tradition identified him as John the Apostle, one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles.
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that commentators treat the four books together, yet, according to most modern scholars, John was not the author of any of these books.
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more and more has placed John within a first-century Jewish context.
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to trace the development of the tradition from which the gospel arose.
The discourses seem to be चिंतित with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written.
It is notable that, in the gospel, the community still appears to define itself primarily against Judaism, rather than as part of a wider Christian church.
Though Christianity started as a movement within Judaism, gradually Christians and यहूदियों became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, meaning that it describes Jesus as the incarnation of the divine Logos through whom all things were made, as the object of veneration, and more explicitly as God incarnate.
Only in John does Jesus talk at length about himself and his divine role, often shared with the शिष्यों only.
Against the synoptics, John focuses largely on अलग miracles ( including resurrecting Lazarus ), given as signs meant to engender faith.
Synoptic elements such as parables and exorcisms are not found in John.
It presents a realized eschatology in which salvation is already present for the believer.
The Plagues of Egypt ( ), also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, were ten calamities that, according to the biblical Book of Exodus, Israel 's God, Yahweh, inflicted upon Egypt to persuade Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery.
Pharaoh capitulated after the tenth plague, triggering the Exodus of the Jewish people.
The plagues were designed to contrast the power of Yahweh with the impotence of Egypt 's various gods.
Some commentators have associated several of the plagues with judgment on specific gods associated with the Nile, fertility and natural phenomena.
The plagues of Egypt are also mentioned in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the Book of Exodus, God proclaims that all the gods of Egypt will be judged through the tenth और फाइनल plague:
John Martin 's पेंटिंग of the plague of hail and fire ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which players assume the roles of characters in a fictional setting.
Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a narrative, either through literal acting or through a process of structured decision-making or character development.
Actions taken within many games succeed or fail according to a औपचारिक system of rules and guidelines.
वहीँ are several forms of RPG.
The original form, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through discussion, whereas in live action role-playing games ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions.
In both of these forms, an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides on the rules and setting to be used and acts as referee, while each of the other players plays the role of a single character.
Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media, such as multi-player text-based MUDs and their graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ).
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing वीडियो games in which players control a character or team who undertake quests, and may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics.
These games often share settings and rules with tabletop RPGs, but emphasize character advancement more than collaborative storytelling.
Despite this variety of forms, some game forms such as trading card games and wargames that are related to role-playing games may not be शामिल.
Role-playing activity may sometimes be present in such games, but it is not the primary focus.
The term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and exercises प्रयुक्त in teaching, training, and academic research.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four सालो of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but पहले his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared उसके प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject काल्स लिये secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a सलाम सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared लिये युद्ध.
The Confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of अमेरिका.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide सैनिकों to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval नाकेबंदी that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी थिएटर, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
The definition of the world 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र रै महरूम निर्दिष्ट by the Airports Council International in Geneva, Switzerland.
The ACI defines and measures the following three types of airport traffic:
Passenger traffic : total passengers emplaned और deplaned, passengers in transit counted once
Cargo traffic : loaded and unloaded freight and mail in metric टन
Traffic movements : landings and take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world इतिहास, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and ध्वज on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of राष्ट्र थी formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill, the BP oil disaster, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and the Macondo blowout ) was an oil spill in the Gulf of मैक्सिको on the BP -operated Macondo Prospect, considered the largest accidental marine oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry, estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill.
Following the explosion and sinking of the deepwater क्षितिज आयल रिग, जिससे claimed 11 lives, a sea-floor oil gusher flowed unabated for 87 days, until it was capped on 15 July 2010.
The total discharge is अनुमानित at.
A massive response ensued to protect beaches, wetlands and estuaries from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships, floating booms, controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant.
After several failed efforts to contain the flow, the well was declared sealed on 19 September 2010.
कुछ रिपोर्ट्स indicate the well site continues to leak.
Due to the months-long spill, along with adverse effects from the response and cleanup activities, extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats, fishing and tourism industries, and human health problems have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill, tar balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast.
Numerous investigations छान the causes of the explosion and record-setting spill.
Notably, the U.S. government 's September 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the well, faulting mostly BP, but also well ऑपरेटर transocean और ठेकेदार Halliburton.
Earlier in 2011, a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of cost-cutting decisions and an insufficient safety system, but also concluded that the spill resulted from `` systemic '' root causes and `` absent significant reform in both industry practices and government policies, might well recur ''.
In November 2012, BP and the United States Department of Justice settled federal criminal charges with BP pleading guilty to 11 counts of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to Congress.
BP also agreed to four years of सरकारी निगरानी of its safety practices and ethics, and the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government.
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines and other payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and fines under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment.
As of February 2013, criminal and civil settlements and payments to a trust fund had लागत the कम्पनी $ 42.2 billion.
`` Where the गलियों Have No Name '' is a song by rock band U2.
It is the opening track from their 1987 album The Joshua Tree and was released as the album 's third सिंगल in अगस्त 1987.
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a delay effect, played during the song 's परिचय and again at the end.
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is possible to identify a person 's religion and income based on the street on which they lived, विशेषकर in Belfast.
During the band 's difficulties recording the song, producer Brian Eno considered erasing the song 's tapes to have them start from scratch.
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was praised by critics and became a commercial success, peaking at number thirteen in the US, number fourteen in Canada, number ten in the Netherlands, and number four in the United Kingdom.
The song has become one of the band 's most popular songs and has remained a staple of their live act since the song debuted in 1987 on the जोशुआ पेड़ दौरे.
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the filming of its music video, which won a Grammy Award लिये बेहतरीन Performance Music Video.Recently the song has been used by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born जुलाई 9, 1956 ) is an American actor, producer, writer, and director.
Hanks is known for his roles in Apollo 13, Big, That बात तुम Do !
, The Green Mile, You 've Got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, Charlie Wilson 's War, Catch Me If You Can, Forrest Gump, Cast Away, a लीग of उनके अपना, the da विंची Code, Angels & Demons, as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series, The Polar Express, and The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned and been nominated for numerous पुरस्कार दौरान उसके करियर, सहित जीतना a सुनहरी ग्लोब for Best Actor and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia and a Golden Globe, an Academy Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump, and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004.
Hanks is also known for his collaboration with film director Steven Spielberg on Saving Private Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers, which launched Hanks also as a successful director, producer and writer.
As of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 अरब at the United States box office alone, and over $ 8.5 billion worldwide making him the highest all-time box office star.
The Cape is an American सुपरहीरो drama series.
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning साथ a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on संडे, जनवरी 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time.
an encore निभाई on सोमवार, January 10, with follow-up episodes continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
NBC subsequently cut the total number of episodes to be aired from 13 to 10 as a result of low ratings.
On March 2, 2011, NBC announced that the series finale would only be aired on the network 's website.
हैली 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth, and thus the तभी naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be brighter and more spectacular, but will appear only once in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's दिखावे यहूद made by Chinese, Babylonian, and medieval European chroniclers, but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of कोमा and tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely रचित of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, और that only a small portion of it is icy.
the following is a सूची of the सबसे populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations, including city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी Bureau 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक type of government that includes the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some संचित city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated places.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place.
Note that this सूची refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined limits, which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S. metropolitan area populations.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a core group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is one of travail and survival in a harsh New World environment.
A New जीलैंड आगे ( in white ) takes a shot on goal against Cameroon in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup.
Forwards, also known as strikers, are the players on a team in association football who play nearest to the opposing team 's goal, and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals.
This very advanced position and its limited defensive responsibilities mean forwards normally score more goals than other players.
इस स्थिति requires प्रज्ञा, गति, और शक्ति, दोनो of निष्पादन और of विचार, to perform the role well.
Modern team formations usually include one to three forwards ; two is the most common.
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an advanced position ( the centre forward ), and another attacking forward who plays somewhat deeper and assists in making goals as well as scoring ( the second striker ).
It should be noted that inside forwards develop from attacking midfield positions and hence are naturally midfielders.
Barcelona FC star Lionel Messi is a typical Attacking Midfielder seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy.
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship available to same-sex couples, and to certain opposite-sex couples in which at least one party is at least 18 years of age.
It affords the couple `` the same rights, protections, and benefits, and... the same responsibilities, obligations, and duties under law... '' as married spouses.
Enacted in 1999, the घरेलू साझेदारी registry was the first of its kind in the United States created by a legislature without court intervention.
initially, घरेलू partnerships enjoyed बहुत few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation अधिकारों और the सही to be claimed as a अगला of kin of the एस्टेट of a मृतक संगी.
The legislature has since expanded the scope of California domestic partnerships to include all of the rights and responsibilities common to marriage.
As such, California domestic partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil unions offered in several other states.
हालांकि the कार्यक्रम enjoys व्यापक support in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, it रै महरूम the सोर्स of कुछ विवाद.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex परिवारों have challenged the expansion of domestic partnerships in court.
Conversely, advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything less than full marriage rights extended to same-sex साझेदार is analogous to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era.
Mark A. Jackson ( born April 1, 1965 ) is an American basketball coach, and former player who is the current head coach of the सुनहरी राज्य Warriors of the NBA.
A point guard from St. John 's University, he played for the New York Knicks, Indiana Pacers, Los Angeles Clippers, Denver Nuggets, Toronto Raptors, Utah जैज़ और ह्यूस्टन rockets in the NBA in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004.
Jackson has also worked as a commentator for ESPN and ABC alongside his former coach Jeff Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen.
He was previously an एनबीए विश्लेषक for The YES Network 's New Jersey Nets games.
South Africa has eleven official languages : Afrikaans, English, Ndebele, Northern sotho, sotho, swazi, tswana, Tsonga, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu.
Fewer than two percent of South Africans speak a first language other than an official one.
Most South Africans can speak more than एक language.
Dutch and English यहूद the पहला official languages of South Africa from 1910 to 1925.
Afrikaans थी added as a part of Dutch in 1925.
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a republic in 1961, and Dutch was dropped in 1983, so between 1983 and 1994, South Africa had two official भाषाएं : English and Afrikaans.
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isizulu, isixhosa, अफ्रीकी, sepedi ( referring to उत्तरी sotho ), Setswana, English, Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ), Xitsonga, Siswati, Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ).
In South Africa, Southern Ndebele is ज्ञात simply as Ndebele, as most speakers of Northern Ndebele live in Zimbabwe.
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to Northern Sotho as Sesotho sa Leboa, but the 1996 version referred to the language as Sepedi.
Different government departments and official bodies use different terms to denote उत्तरी Sotho.
The main language of government is English भी if South Africans often take pride in using indigenous languages for any purpose.
Afrikaans भी features prominently in commerce together with English as the languages with the highest number of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English.
In terms of भाषाई classification, the official languages include two West-Germanic languages ( English and Afrikaans ) and nine Bantu languages.
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu, Xhosa, Swati and Ndebele ) and three are Sotho–Tswana languages ( Northern sotho, दक्षिणी Sotho and Tswana ).
Tsonga is a tswa–ronga language.
South African Sign Language is a distinct though incompletely emerged national standard language which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric acid, existing normally as a crystalline hydrate, सबसे commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate, Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
The New York Jets are a professional football team headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The team is a member of the Eastern Division of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
In a unique arrangement for the league, the jets share metlife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey with the New York Giants.
The franchise is legally and corporately registered as New York Jets, LLC.
The team was founded in 1959 as the टाइटन्स of New York, an original member of the American Football League ; later, the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger.
The team began to play in 1960 at the Polo Grounds.
Under new ownership, the current name was adopted in 1963 and the franchise थी relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984.
The Jets advanced to the playoffs लिये the पहला time in 1968 and went on to compete in Super Bowl III where they defeated the Baltimore Colts, becoming the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game.
चूंकि 1968, the jets have appeared in the playoffs तेरह टाइम्स, और in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार टाइम्स, सबसे recently खोने to the पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स in 2010.
However, the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl, making them one of three NFL teams to win their lone Super Bowl रूप, साथ साथ the नई Orleans Saints and Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
The team 's training facility, Atlantic Health Jets Training Center, जिससे opened in 2008, is located in Florham Park.
The team currently holds their annual training camp sessions on the campus of the State University of New York at Cortland in Cortland, New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex.
psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms, also known as psychedelic mushrooms, are fungi that contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin mushrooms, the most common being shrooms and magic mushrooms.
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe, Conocybe, Copelandia, galerina, Gerronema, Gymnopilus, Hypholoma, Inocybe, Mycena, Panaeolus, Pluteus, and Psilocybe.
वहीँ हैं लगभग 190 species of psilocybin mushrooms and most of them fall in the genus Psilocybe.
Psilocybin mushrooms have likely been used since prehistoric times and may have been depicted in rock art.
Many cultures have used these मशरूम in religious rites.
In modern Western society they are used recreationally for their साइकेडेलिक effects.
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins School of Medicine conclude that when used properly, psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent, with the international boundary with Canada to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest राज्य in the United States by area, the 4th least populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live भीतर the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil, natural gas, and fishing उद्योग ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for महंगाई ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it was used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as Alyeska, the `` great land '', an Aleut word derived from the same root.
The 101 French departments are divided into 342 arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts.
The पूंजी of an arrondissement/district is called a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the department, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.
arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes.
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna, वस्तुतः `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract which is a sex organ and has two main functions ; sexual intercourse and childbirth.
In humans, this passage leads from the opening of the vulva to the uterus ( womb ), but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix.
Unlike men, who have only one genital orifice, women have two, the urethra and the vagina.
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral opening, and both openings are protected by the labia.
The inner mould of the vagina has a foldy texture which can create friction for the penis during intercourse.
During arousal, the vagina gets moist to facilitate the entrance of the penis.
The Latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely used in English.
Colloquially, the word vagina is often used to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in general.
However, by its dictionary and anatomical definitions, vagina refers exclusively to the specific internal ढांचा.
The Cincinnati Reds are a Major लीग Baseball team based in Cincinnati, Ohio.
They हैं members of the National League Central Division.
Established in 1881 as an independent club, the टोली became a charter member of the American Association in 1882, and joined the National League in 1890.
The club traditionally traces its origin to baseball 's first खुलकर professional team in 1869.
The Reds have won five World Series titles, एक American Association pennant, nine National League pennants and ten division titles.
the लाल played in the National League West between 1969 and 1993 and have been in the National League Central since 1994.
Since 2003, the Reds have played at Great American Ball Park, built next to their home from 1970 to 2002, Riverfront Stadium.
Bob castellini has owned the Cincinnati Reds since 2006.
A शरारत stink bomb.
A stink bomb is a device designed to create an unpleasant smell.
वे दायरा in प्रभावकारिता from simple pranks to military grade malodorants or riot control chemical agents.
The Guinness Book of रिकॉर्ड lists two smelliest substances.
एक is `` us सरकारी मानक बाथरूम malodor '' ; a मिश्रण of आठ रसायन साथ a stench resembling इंसान मल, तभी much stronger, designed to परीक्षण the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners.
another एक, `` जो me ? ``, is a मिश्रण of पाँच sulfur-containing रसायन और खुश्बू जैसे rotting खाना और carcasses.
The adage `` A picture is worth a thousand words '' refers to the notion that a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image.
It also aptly characterizes एक of the main goals of visualization, namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly.
The expression `` Use a चित्र.
It 's worth a thousand words. '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting समाचारपत्र editor Arthur Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity.
1913 समाचारपत्र advertisement
A similar phrase, `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 newspaper advertisement for the Piqua Auto Supply House of Piqua, Ohio.
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper advertisement for the San Antonio Light which says : One of the Nation 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is Worth a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers.
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the advertising trade journal Printers ' Ink, promoting the use of images in advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars.
The December 8, 1921 issue carries an ad entitled, `` One Look is Worth A Thousand Words. ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 issue with the phrase `` One Picture Worth Ten हजार शब्द, '' जहाँ it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The Home Book of Proverbs, Maxims, and परिचित Phrases quotes Barnard as saying he called it `` a Chinese proverb, so that people would take it seriously. ''
Soon after, the proverb would become popularly attributed to Confucius.
The discussion of `` One Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` One Picture लायक Ten Thousand Words '' Wan yen I hua and 10.000 miles worth 10.000 books is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures.
A picture is worth a thousand शब्द
Despite this modern origin of the popular phrase, the sentiment has been expressed by earlier writers.
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers and Sons in 1862 ), `` A picture shows me at a glance कया it takes दर्जनों of pages of a book to expound. ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an opposite statement regarding programming in The Mythical Man-Month : `` Show me your flowcharts and conceal your tables, and I shall continue to be mystified.
Show me your tables, और i won’t प्रायः need your flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John McCarthy, the famous computer scientist, to make the opposite point : `` As the Chinese say, 1001 शब्द is worth more than a picture. ''
A season is a subdivision of the year, marked by changes in weather, ecology, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the Sun और the झुकाव of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface, variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern hemisphere is उजागर to अधिक सीधा धूप क्युकी the hemisphere faces the sun.
The वही is सच्चा of the southern hemisphere in November, December and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during the summer months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, जुलाई और August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December, January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), पतझड़ ( autumnal ) और winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season and the dry season, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some parts of the world, special `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on important events such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological सीज़न
The four calendar सीज़न, depicted in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
Dutch exports in 2006
At the time of writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the world.
( see : List of countries by GDP ( नाममात्र ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the top 10 of richest nations in the world ( see : List of countries by जीडीपी ( PPP ) per capita ).
Between 1996 and 2000 सालाना economic growth ( GDP ) averaged over 4 %, well above the European average.
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as part of the वैश्विक आर्थिक slowdown.
2006 and 2007 however showed economic growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the ongoing global financial crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis.
Several banks गई bankrupt, and a number of others had to receive governmental aid.
In 2009 the economy declined with 3.5 %, followed by two years of mild growth.
The Dutch economy is currently in a recession again, with an economic मनाही of 0.5 % in 2012.
Inflation is at 3.2 % in February 2013.
Unemployment has been relatively low compared to अन्य eu राष्ट्र लिये दशकों लकिन after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 %.
The Netherlands managed to maintain its AAA rating at least until March 2013 according to the three major credit rating एजेंसियों.
Historically, the Dutch introduced and invented the stock market by the merchandise trading through Dutch West इण्डिया Company.
The Netherlands is a founding member of the European Union, the OECD and the World व्यापार Organization.
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio एल्बम और छठे studio album by Tupac Shakur.
It contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by shakur पहले his death in 1996.
Released in the United States on December 14, 2004 ( December 12 in the संयुक्त किंगडम ), Loyal to the Game was produced by Eminem.
the असली फलक of the दृश्य ; मेरेडिथ vieira, स्टार जोन्स, डिब्बी matenopoulos और बारबरा walters in 1997.
The View is an American talk show broadcast on ABC that debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime प्रोग्रामिंग block.
Created by Barbara Walters and Bill Geddie, who both also serve as the show 's executive producers, the program features a panel of women as co-hosts.
Along with Walters, the current panel includes Whoopi Goldberg, who serves as the moderator, Joy Behar, Elisabeth Hasselbeck, and Sherri Shepherd.
International versions of the program are aired in several देशों.
as of the 2012–13 ऋतु, इसके 16th, the दृश्य is the fourth-longest कार्यशील नेशनल दिन बात दिखाएँ in इतिहास, पीछे the फिल donahue दिखाएँ ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ), और the Oprah Winfrey Show ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly called bitter-berry, chokecherry, Virginia बर्ड चेरी और पश्चिमी chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a species of bird cherry ( Prunus subgenus Padus ) native to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent, except for the far north and far south.
Los Angeles International Airport is the primary airport serving the Greater Los Angeles Area, the second-most populated metropolitan area in the United States.
It is most often referred to by इसके IATA airport code LAX, with the letters pronounced individually.
LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles along the Pacific coast in the neighborhood of Westchester, from the downtown core and is the primary airport of Los Angeles World Airports ( LAWA ), an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Beijing Capital International Airport, London Heathrow Airport, Chicago O'Hare International Airport, and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers.
The airport holds the claim for `` the world 's busiest origin and destination ( O & D ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 कि involves non-connecting passenger traffic.
It is also the only airport to rank among the top five U.S. airports for both यात्री और कार्गो traffic.
LAX is the busiest airport in the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, but other airports including Bob Hope Airport, John Wayne Airport, Long Beach Airport, LA/Ontario International Airport, and Palm Springs International Airport also serve the region.
LAX is also the busiest airport in California and the West Coast of the United States in terms of flight operations, passenger traffic and air cargo activity, leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim ``.
Peyton विलियम्स मैनिंग ( born March 24, 1976 ) is an American football quarterback for the Denver Broncos of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He played for the Indianapolis Colts for 14 seasons from 1998 to 2011.
He is the son of former NFL quarterback Archie Manning and an elder brother of New York Giants क्वार्टरबैक एली मैनिंग.
Manning played college football for the University of Tennessee, leading the Volunteers to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season.
However, No. 3 Tennessee lost to the No. 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the Orange Bowl giving Nebraska and Tom Osborne their 3rd national चैंपियनशिप in 4 years.
He was chosen by the Indianapolis Colts with the first overall pick in the 1998 एनएफएल Draft.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the Colts to eight ( seven AFC South and one AFC East ) division championships, two AFC championships, and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ).
He has won a record four लीग सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी awards, was the most valuable player of Super Bowl XLI, has been named to twelve Pro Bowls, has twelve 4,000-yard passing seasons, and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ).
In 2009, he was named the best player in the एनएफएल and Fox Sports along with Sports Illustrated named him the NFL player of the decade of the 2000s.
In May 2011, he underwent neck surgery to alleviate neck pain and arm weakness he dealt with during the previous few seasons before signing a five-year, $ 90 million contract extension with the Colts in July 2011.
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 season, but in September 2011, he underwent a much अधिक serious second surgery : a level one cervical fusion procedure.
Manning had never missed an NFL game in his career, but was मजबूर to मिस the entire 2011 season.
He was released by the Colts on March 7, 2012, and after an almost two-week period where he visited with and worked आउट लिये अनेक एनएफएल टीमों, he हस्ताक्षरित with the Denver Broncos on March 20, 2012.
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the nickname, `` The शेरिफ '' and is one of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL.
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost विशेष उपयोग of the hurry-up offense led to Manning using an array of gestures and verbal commands to call the play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
the अमेरिका मीनार of the अमरीकी सामान्य बीच, the मुख्यालय of बेकर ह्यूजेस
Baker Hughes is one of the संसार 's largest oilfield services companies.
It operates in over 90 countries, providing the oil and gas industry with products and services for drilling, formation evaluation, completion, production and reservoir consulting.
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower in the American General बीच in Neartown, Houston.
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when Baker International and Hughes औजार Company merged in 1987.
Baker Hughes operates विश्वव्यापी साथ प्रमुख कार्यालयों in लिवरपूल, United Kingdom ; Singapore ; Dubai ; a research and maintenance facility in Celle, Germany ; Lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, Texas ; Pescara, Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The company is administered broadly in two hemispheres : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( कनाडा, us जमीन, us गल्फ, और Latin America ).
Each of these regions is subdivided into बाज़ार.
The United States one- cent सिक्का, commonly known as a penny, is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a United States dollar.
The cent 's symbol is ¢.
Its obverse has featured the profile of President Abraham Lincoln since 1909, the centennial of his birth.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008, the reverse featured the Lincoln Memorial.
Four different reverse designs in 2009 honored Lincoln 's 200th birthday and a new, permanent reverse – the Union Shield – was introduced in 2010.
The coin is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm ) in diameter and 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The U.S. Mint 's official name for a penny is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's official name is `` one cent piece ''.
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin of the वही name, the pre-decimal version of which had a similar value.
In American English, pennies is the plural form, other plural forms pence and pee ( standard use in British English ) are not used.
As of 2012, it costs the U.S. मिंट 2.00 सेंट to make a cent because of the cost of materials and production.
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components for distribution and fabrication, estimated at $ 13 million in FY 2011.
It also includes Mint overhead allocated to the penny, which was $ 17.7 million लिये 2011.
Fixed costs and overhead would have to be absorbed by other circulating सिक्के बगैर the penny.
The loss in profitability due to producing the one cent सिक्का in the United States for the year of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
This was a slight decrease from 2011, the year before, which had a production loss of $ 60,200,000.
or more specifically, are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens.
Koi varieties are distinguished by coloration, patterning, and scalation.
Some of the major colors are white, black, red, yellow, blue, and cream.
The most popular category of koi is the Gosanke, which is made up of the Kohaku, Taisho Sanshoku, and Showa Sanshoku varieties.
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government, about 5,000 employees of the District of Columbia, and a few hundred private sector employees, mostly in and around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union for civilian, non- postal federal employees and the largest union for District of Columbia employees who report directly to the mayor ( i.e., outside of D.C. public schools ).
it is संबद्ध साथ the afl-cio.
A late सिल्यूरियन sporangium.
ग्रीन : a spore tetrad.
ब्लू : A spore bearing a trilete mark – the -shaped scar.
the बीजाणुओं are about 30-35 μm across
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing levels of complexity, इससे the earliest algal mats, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive, especially in the environments in which they evolved, for a time each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors.
In the Ordovician period, around, the first land plants appeared.
These began to diversify in the late Silurian Period, around, and the results of their diversification are displayed in remarkable detail in an early Devonian fossil assemblage इससे the rhynie chert.
इस chert preserved जल्दी पौधे in सेल्यूलर विवरण, petrified in volcanic स्रोतों.
By the middle of the Devonian Period, most of the features recognised in plants today are present, including roots, leaves and secondary wood ; and, by late Devonian times, seeds had evolved.
Late Devonian पौधे had thereby reached a degree of sophistication that allowed them to form forests of tall trees.
विकासवादी नवीनता जारी into the carboniferous काल और is स्टिल जारी आज.
Most plant groups were relatively unscathed by the Permo-Triassic extinction event, although the structures of communities changed.
This may have नियत the झाँकी लिये the रूप of the flowering plants in the Triassic ( ~ ), and their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene.
The latest major group of plants to evolve were the grasses, which became important in the mid-paleogene, इससे around.
The grasses, as well as many other groups, evolved new mechanisms of metabolism to survive the low and warm, dry conditions of the tropics over the last.
The winning Super कटोरी team receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
The Super Bowl is an annual American football game that determines the champion of the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
The contest is held in an American city that is chosen तीन to four years beforehand, usually in warm-weather or domed sites.
Since 1971, the winner of the American Football सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the विजेता of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
Before the 1970 merger between the American फ़ुटबॉल League ( AFL ) and the National Football League ( NFL ), the two leagues met in four such contests.
The first two were known as the `` AFL-NFL World Championship Game. ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game that carried the `` Super Bowl '' moniker, the names `` Super Bowl I `` and `` Super Bowl ii `` यहूद retroactively applied to the first two games.
The NFC /NFL leads in Super Bowl wins with 25, while the AFC /AFL has won 22.
Eighteen different franchises, including teams that relocated to another city, have won the Super Bowl.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls साथ छह championships ( record 6–2 ), while both the Dallas Cowboys and San Francisco 49ers have five wins each ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most Super Bowl appearances with eight, while the Buffalo Bills have the most consecutive appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993.
The New England देशप्रेमी, Denver Broncos and Minnesota Vikings have also lost a record four Super Bowls.
Buffalo and मिनेसोटा हैं both 0–4, Denver is 2–4 and New England is 3–4.
The record for consecutive wins is two and is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green Bay Packers, the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins, the 1974-75 and 1978-79 Pittsburgh Steelers ( the only team to accomplish this feat twice ), the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 Denver Broncos, and the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the Baltimore Ravens, who in winning Super Bowl XLVII unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position.
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a Super Bowl, including franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns, Detroit शेर, jacksonville Jaguars, and Houston Texans, though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl.
Martin County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas.
As of the 2010 census, its जनसांख्यिकी was 4,799.
Its seat is stanton.
The काउंटी is नामित लिये wylie मार्टिन, an जल्दी settler.
Martin काउंटी is one of 30 prohibition, or entirely dry, counties in the state of Texas.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many types of अणुओं, सहित nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
The प्रक्रम of removing the phosphate group is called dephosphorylation.
As the नाम suggests, alkaline phosphatases are most effective in an alkaline environment.
It is sometimes used synonymously as basic phosphatase.
triticale ( × triticosecale ), ( ) is a संकर of गेहूं ( triticum ) और rye ( secale ) पहला करवाया in laboratories दौरान the लेट 19th सदी.
The grain was originally bred in स्कॉटलैंड and Sweden.
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second generation hybrid, i.e., a cross between two kinds of primary ( first cross ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the yield potential and grain quality of wheat with the disease and पर्यावरणीय tolerance ( including soil conditions ) of rye.
Only recently has it महरूम developed into a commercially viable crop.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can more or less resemble either of its parents.
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder, although some triticale-based foods can be खरीदा at health food stores or are to be found in some breakfast cereals.
When crossing wheat and rye, wheat is used as the female parent and rye as the male parent ( pollen donor ).
The resulting hybrid is sterile, and must be treated with colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus the ability to reproduce itself.
The primary producers of triticale are Poland, जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, Belarus and Australia.
In 2009, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ), 15.0 million tons were harvested in 29 countries across the world.
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid, which means the plant is diploid for two genomes derived from different species.
In other words, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In earlier years, सबसे work was done on octoploid triticale.
Different ploidy levels have been created and evaluated over समय.
The tetraploids showed little promise, but hexaploid triticale was successful enough to find commercial application.
The CIMMYT triticale improvement program wanted to improve food production and nutrition in developing countries.
Triticale has potential in the production of bread and other food products, ऐसे as cookies, pasta, pizza dough and breakfast cereals.
The protein content is higher than that of wheat, although the glutenin fraction is less.
The grain has also been stated to have higher levels of lysine than wheat.
Assuming increased acceptance, the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale, as the milling techniques employed for wheat are unsuited to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be used as a feed grain, and later research found its मंड थी particularly readily digested.
As a feed grain, triticale is already well established and of high economic importance.
It has received attention as a potential energy crop, and research is currently being conducted on the use of the crop 's biomass in bioethanol production.
`` Puff, the Magic Dragon '' is a song written by Leonard Lipton and Peter Yarrow, and made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter, Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording.
The song achieved ग्रेट popularity.
A college football national championship in the highest level of collegiate play in the United States, currently the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) Division I फ़ुटबॉल Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ), is a designation awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ).
Division I FBS ( formerly Division I-A ) football is the only NCAA sport in which a yearly champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event.
क्युकी the चैंपियनशिप टोली is नहीं संकल्पित by a ncaa चैंपियनशिप or टूर्नामेंट इवेंट, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical नेशनल चैंपियनशिप ``.
Since the NCAA, the sport 's governing body, does not determine or declare a national champion in this field, determination of such has often engendered controversy.
A championship team is independently declared by various individuals and organizations, often referred to as `` selectors ''.
These choices are sometimes at odds with each other.
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual चैंपियनशिप टोली, it has documented the choices of several selectors in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records.
In addition, various third party analysts have independently published their own lists of what they have determined to be the most legitimate चयन for each season.
These are also often at odds with each other as well as individual school 's claims on national championships, which, for any particular season, may or may not correlate to the selections प्रकाशित elsewhere.
फिलहाल, दो widely पहचाना नेशनल champions चयनकर्ताओं हैं the संबद्ध दबायें, जिससे conducts a पोल of फ़ुटबॉल sportswriters, और the यूएसए आज कोच ' पोल, a पोल of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच संघ क्रियाशील कोच कि is contractually obligated to नाम the विजेता of the कटोरी चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी चैंपियनशिप खेल as इसके नेशनल चैंपियन.
The Milwaukee Brewers are a professional baseball team based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The team is a member of the Central Division of Major लीग Baseball 's National League and plays its home games at Miller Park.
The team is so named because of the city 's संघ with the brewing industry.
The Washington Nationals हैं a professional baseball team based in Washington, D.C.
The Nationals are a member of the East Division of the National League of प्रमुख League Baseball ( MLB ).
The team 's home ballpark is नागरिकों पार्क, located on South Capitol Street in Southeast D.C., near the Anacostia River.
The park opened in 2008, replacing RFK Stadium, the team 's home from 2005 to 2007.
The नागरिकों ' name derives from the former Washington baseball team that had the same name ( used interchangeably with Senators ).
Their nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened version कि थी भी प्रयुक्त by the old D.C. teams.
An expansion franchise, the club was founded in as the Montreal Expos, the first प्रमुख league team in Canada.
They were based in Montreal, Quebec, and played उनके घर खेल at jarry पार्क Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium.
In, the Expos won a division championship, won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the Philadelphia Phillies, 3–2, and advanced to the National League Championship Series, where they would go on to lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers, 3–2, in उनके तभी postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season.
the expos था उनके उच्चतम जीतना प्रतिशत in the strike-shortened ऋतु of, जब the टोली था the बेहतरीन रिकार्ड in baseball.
The टोली 's subsequent shedding of players caused fan interest to drop off.
After the 2001 season, MLB considered revoking the team 's franchise, along with either the Minnesota Twins or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
After being purchased by MLB in 2002, the team was moved before the season to Washington and renamed the Nationals, the first relocation since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington, Texas, and became the Texas Rangers in.
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises, and the only one in the National League, that has never played in a World Series ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ).
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional fee ( in England and Wales ) is any fee for services provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result.
In the law, it is defined as a `` fee charged लिये a lawyer 's services only if the lawsuit is successful or is favorably settled out of court....
Contingent fees are usually calculated as a प्रतिशत of the client 's net recovery. ''
In the English legal प्रणाली, it is generally referred to as no win no fee.
A conditional fee agreement between a law firm and a client.
The usual form of this agreement is that the solicitor will take a law case on the understanding that if lost, no payment is made.
However, if the case is won, the lawyer will be entitled to the normal fee based on hourly बिलिंग, प्लस a success fee.
The success शुल्क in England must be as a percentage no greater than 100 % of the normal fee.
इस contrasts साथ the आकस्मिकता शुल्क in the us, जिससे देता the कामयाब attorney a प्रतिशत of the क्षतिपूर्ति awarded in एहसान of उसके क्लाएंट.
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights since otherwise, to मुकदमा किसी लिये a अपकृत्य, one must first be wealthy enough to pursue such litigation in the first place.
However, because of the high risk, few attorneys will take cases on a contingency basis unless they feel the case has good merit.
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer, निर्भर fees were allowed as of that year in the following countries : Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Dominican Republic, France, Greece, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
वे are also allowed in personal injury actions in Lithuania.
Recently, they have been अनुमत in Belgium as well.
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ', translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of people formally assembled for a special purpose.
Sons of Anarchy is a television drama series created by Kurt Sutter about the lives of a close-knit outlaw motorcycle club operating in Charming, a fictional town in California 's Central Valley.
The show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' Teller ( Charlie Hunnam ), the then-vice president of the club, who begins questioning the club and himself.
Sons of Anarchy premiered on September 3, 2008, on cable संजाल FX.
The third ऋतु of the श्रेणी आकर्षित an औसत of 4.9 लाख दर्शक प्रति सप्ताह, बनाना it fx 's उच्चतम रेटेड श्रेणी कभी, surpassing fx 's अन्य हिट्स the शील्ड, nip/tuck, और बचाव me.
On February 3, 2012, Sons of Anarchy was renewed for two additional seasons, a fifth and a sixth.
those शामिल in the उत्पादन of the श्रेणी imply कि a सातवाँ और फाइनल ऋतु is निर्माता कर्ट sutter 's योजना.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '', singular : ) and the volcano of the same name are in South-East Iceland.
They are in the हाइलैंड्स of Iceland at the northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
The lakes are at, at an उन्नयन of.
Beneath the lakes is the magma chamber of the Grímsvötn volcano.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has the highest eruption frequency of all the volcanoes in Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system.
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 was a part of the वही फिशर system.
Grímsvötn was erupting at the same time as Laki during 1783, but continued to erupt until 1785.
Because most of the volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull, most of its eruptions have been subglacial and the interaction of magma and meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC, an eruption began, with high plumes accompanied by अनेक भूकंप, resulting in cancellation of 900 flights in Iceland, and in the United Kingdom, Greenland, Germany, Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May.
Until 25 May the eruption scale had been larger than that of the 2010 eruption of eyjafjallajökull.
The eruption stopped at 02:40 UTC on 25 May 2011, although there was some explosive activity from the tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater.
Vetting is the process of performing a background check on someone before offering them employment, conferring an award, etc.
A prospective व्यक्ति or project may be vetted before making a hiring decision.
In addition, in intelligence gathering, एसेट are vetted to determine their usefulness.
पूर्व मुख्यालय और वर्तमान कॉरपोरेट कार्यालयों
caesars entertainment निगम ( formerly harrah 's entertainment इससे 1995 to 2010 ) is an अमरीकी पब्लिक गेमिंग निगम कि owns और operates over 50 कसीनो, होटल, और सात गोल्फ़ पाठ्यक्रम अंतर्गत अनेक ब्रांड्स.
The company, based in Paradise, Nevada, is the largest gaming company in the world, with annual revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
Caesars is a public company, with a joint venture of अपोलो वैश्विक Management and Texas Pacific Group ownig a large portion of the stack and Blackstone Group also holding a significant stake.
The नाम बदलें from `` Harrah 's Entertainment Inc. '' to `` Caesars Entertainment Corporation '' was made official on November 23, 2010.
Harrah 's remains a key brand in the company.
On नवम्बर 5, 2010, Harrah 's announced an initial public offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering on November 19.
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a Canadian citizen but who has been granted permission to live and कार्य in कनाडा बगैर any time limit on his or her stay.
A permanent resident must live in Canada for two years out of every five or risk losing that status.
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen, among others the right to work for any enterprise as well as for the संघीय or provincial government ( under restriction of access rights to certain regulated professions ).
The main मतभेद हैं that residents can not :
vote in चुनावों in Canada ;
run for elected office ;
hold कनाडाई passports ;
in जोड, they may be allowed to join Canada 's armed forces if the national interest would not be prejudiced.
Permanent residents also risk deportation for गंभीर अपराधों committed while resident in Canada.
Permanent residents may apply for कनाडाई नागरिकता बाद तीन years in Canada ; however this is not mandatory.
Erica Kane is a fictional character from the American ABC Daytime soap opera All My Children.
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January 16, 1970 until the last broadcast television episode aired on September 23, 2011.
On February 11, 2013, it was announced that Lucci will guest-star on the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children.
In the U.S., Erica is considered to be the most popular character in soap opera history.
Regarding the North-American market, TV Guide calls her `` unequivocally the most famous soap opera character in the history of daytime TV '', and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time.
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in ब्लू ), and its percent annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in the price level of a market basket of consumer goods and services purchased by households.
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the average change over time in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket of consumer goods and services. ''
The CPI is a statistical estimate constructed using the prices of a sample of प्रतिनिधि items whose prices are collected periodically.
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods and services, being combined to produce the overall index with weights reflecting their shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered by the index.
It is one of several price indices calculated by most national सांख्यिकीय एजेंसियों.
The annual प्रतिशत change in a CPI is used as a measure of inflation.
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e., adjust for the effect of inflation ) the real value of wages, salaries, pensions, for regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values.
In most countries, the CPI is, along with the population census and the USA National Income and Product Accounts, one of the most closely watched national economic statistics.
Knocking on wood, or to touch wood, refers to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally touching/knocking on wood, or merely stating कि तुम हैं doing or intend वही, in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation, a boast, or declaration concerning one 's own death.
रॉकर arm
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive, marine, motorcycle and reciprocating aviation engines, the रॉकर भुजा is an oscillating lever that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it.
One end is raised and lowered by a rotating lobe of the camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) while the other end acts on the valve stem.
When the camshaft पालि उठाता the बाहर of the arm, the inside presses down on the valve stem, opening the valve.
When the outside of the arm is permitted to return due to the camshafts rotation, the inside rises, allowing the वाल्व वसन्त to close the valve.
The drive cam is driven by the camshaft.
This pushes the rocker arm up and down about the trunnion pin or रॉकर shaft.
घर्षण may be घटाया at the point of contact with the valve stem by a roller cam follower.
A similar व्यवस्था हस्तांतरण the गति via another रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता to a दूसरी रॉकर भुजा.
This rotates about the rocker shaft, and transfers the motion via a tappet to the poppet valve.
in इस मामला इस opens the सेवन वाल्व to the बेलन सिर.
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the rocker arm ratio, the ratio of the distance from the rocker arm 's center of rotation to the tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current automotive design favors rocker भुजा ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the past smaller positive ratios ( the valve lift is greater than the cam lift ) and even negative ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used.
अनेक pre-ww2 इंजन उपयोग 1:1 ( न्यूट्रल ) ratios.
For car engines the rocker arms are generally steel stampings, providing a reasonable balance of strength, weight and economical cost.
Because the rocker arms are, in part, reciprocating weight, excessive mass especially at the lever ends limits the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds.
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia '' is a Southern Gothic song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence.
reba mcentire बाद covered it in 1991.
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western Studios on Sunset in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later in November 1972, the song centers around the older brother of the narrator, falsely convicted of and executed for a murder, which the narrator herself has committed.
in डाक मेल, a वापसी पता is an सुस्पष्ट समावेश of the पता of the व्यक्ति sending the संदेश.
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine how to respond to the sender of the message if needed.
the वापसी पता need not include a sender 's name, but should include address or P.O. box details in the same way as the delivery address should.
In some countries, the return address is conventionally located in the upper left hand corner of the envelope, card, or label.
In the संयुक्त किंगडम, the return address is usually placed on the reverse of the envelope, near the top.
व्यवसायों प्रायः use envelopes preprinted with a return address.
Many individuals have sheets of adhesive labels preprinted with their home address to affix to their correspondence.
Charities sometimes include such sheets in mailshots.
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an easy way to peel and stick return address labels to their envelopes.
The return address is नहीं required on postal mail.
However, lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being able to return the item if it proves undeliverable ; such as from damage, postage due, or invalid destination.
Such mail may thus become dead letter mail.
Should the return address be of a different state or country, the mail may be routed through that location for ease of return.
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial तंत्रिका conduit or कृत्रिम nerve graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial means of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries.
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a severed nerve can not be accomplished without tension, the मानक नैदानिक treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting.
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous nerve grafting, neural tissue engineering शोध रै केन्द्रित on the development of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment, especially for large defects.
Similar techniques are also being explored for nerve repair in the spinal cord but nerve regeneration in the central nervous system poses a greater challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in उनके देशी पर्यावरण.
The creation of artificial conduits is also known as entubulation because the nerve ends and intervening gap are enclosed within a tube composed of biological or synthetic materials.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube, synthetic ट्यूब or tissue-engineered conduit, it should facilitate neurotropic and neurotrophic communication between the proximal and distal ends of the nerve gap, block external inhibitory factors, and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth.
The most basic objective of a nerve guidance conduit is to combine physical, chemical, and biological cues under conditions that will फोस्टर tissue formation.
Materials that have been used to make biologic tubes include blood vessels and skeletal muscles, while nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from silicone और polyglycolide respectively.
tissue-engineered तंत्रिका guidance conduits are a combination of many elements : scaffold structure, scaffold material, cellular therapies, neurotrophic factors and biomimetic materials.
The choice of which physical, chemical and biological cues to use is based on the properties of the nerve environment, which is critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration.
The factors that control material selection include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical अखंडता, controllability दौरान तंत्रिका growth, implantation and sterilization.
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry and Loan, a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road, between 8 मील सड़क और the जॉन C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit, Michigan.
The series premiered on August 16, 2010, delivering two million viewers, setting a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere ever.
amoxicillin BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ), formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ), and abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is usually the drug of choice within the class because it is better absorbed, following oral administration, than other β-lactam antibiotics.
Amoxicillin is one of the most आम एंटीबायोटिक prescribed for children.
The ड्रग became available in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria, which are resistant to a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics, such as penicillin.
For this reason, it is प्रायः combined with clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases effectiveness by reducing its susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four people who served in all four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961, including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader, दो as सीनेट अल्पसंख्यक नेता और two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's term and was elected President in his own right, winning by a large हाशिया over बैरी goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` विधान कि शामिल laws that upheld civil rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment, '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major शहरों बाद 1965, and crime rates soared, as his opponents raised demands for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding गिरोहों, और बाद जॉनसन did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended his bid for reelection.
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to सफल उसे.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the peak of modern उदारतावाद in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians because of his domestic नीतियों.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009, from left : Kunal Nayyar, Simon Helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory, निर्मित and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard wolowitz, और astrophysicist राजेश Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ), a physicist colleague, and, at different times, a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic किताब store-owner, स्टुअर्ट खिलते ( सीज़न 2–5 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 6-present नियमित ), जो replaces हावर्ड as राज 's बेहतरीन friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, each of whom plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate सिविल war.
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession.
confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` कि वे होता intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, चार more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union सेना in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the रास्ता.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to ली 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Human evolution refers to the विकासवादी process leading up to the appearance of modern humans.
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life, the टॉपिक प्रायः कवर only the evolutionary history of primates, in particular the genus Homo, and the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ).
The study of human evolution involves many scientific disciplines, including physical anthropology, primatology, archaeology, linguistics, evolutionary psychology, भ्रूणविज्ञान and genetics.
According to genetic studies, primates diverged from other mammals about in the Late Cretaceous period, and the earliest जीवाश्मों appear in the paleocene, around.
The family Hominidae diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 million years ago, and around, the Ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged from the Hominidae family.
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the hominin लकीर, और the earliest bipedal Hominin is considered to be either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin, with Ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat later.
The गोरिल्ला और चिंपैंजी diverged around the वही समय, परिचय 4-6 लाख सालो पहले, और either sahelanthropus or orrorin may be हमारी पिछला साझा पूर्वज साथ उन्हें.
The early bipedals eventually evolved into the australopithecines and later the genus Homo.
The earliest documented members of the genus Homo are Homo habilis which evolved around ; the earliest species for which there is positive evidence of use of stone tools.
The brains of these early hominins were about the same size as that of a chimpanzee.
During the next million years a process of encephalization began, and with the arrival of होमो erectus in the fossil record, cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo इरेक्टस और होमो ergaster यहूद the पहला of the hominina to छोड़ अफ़्रीकी, और ये प्रजाति स्प्रेड through अफ़्रीकी, एशिया, और यूरोपीय between.
It is believed that these species were the first to use fire and complex tools.
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory, modern humans evolved in Africa possibly from Homo heidelbergensis, Homo rhodesiensis or होमो antecessor and migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago, replacing local populations of Homo erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis.
Archaic Homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically modern humans, evolved between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago.
Recent DNA evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non-African populations, and Neanderthals and other hominids, such as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago.
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic culture, language, and specialized lithic technology happened around 50,000 years ago according to many anthropologists although some सुझाएँ a क्रमिक बदलें in behavior over a longer time span.
लिसा cuddy, m.d., is a fictional अक्षर on the फॉक्स संजाल चिकित्सा नाटक House.
She is portrayed by लिसा Edelstein.
Cuddy was the Dean of Medicine and हॉस्पिटल administrator of the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New Jersey.
She also becomes House 's love interest through the सालो to start a relationship with him in season seven.
Cuddy quit her job after the events of season seven 's finale `` Moving On ``.
Track and field is a sport comprising various competitive athletic contests based on running, jumping, and throwing.
The name of the sport derives from the competition venue : a stadium with an oval कार्यशील track around a ग्रास फ़ील्ड.
The throwing और jumping events generally take place in the central enclosed area.
Track and field falls under the umbrella sport of athletics, which also शामिल road running, cross country running, and race walking.
The two most prestigious international track and field competitions are held under the banner of athletics : the athletics competition at the Olympic Games and the IAAF World championships in एथलेटिक्स.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of एथलेटिक्स federations is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय शासी देह लिये track और फ़ील्ड.
Track and field events are generally individual sports with athletes challenging each other to decide a सिंगल विक्टर.
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest time, while the jumping and throwing events are won by the athlete who has हासिल the महानतम distance or height in the contest.
The running events are categorised as sprints, middle and long-distance events, relays, and hurdling.
Regular jumping events include long jump, triple जम्प, ऊँची जम्प and pole vault, while the most common throwing events are shot put, javelin, discus and hammer.
There are also `` combined events '', such as heptathlon and decathlon, in which athletes compete in a number of the above events.
Records are kept of the best performances in specific events, at world and national levels, right down to a personal level.
However, if athletes हैं deemed to have violated the event 's rules or regulations, they are disqualified from the competition and their marks are erased.
In North America, the term track and field may be used to refer to athletics in सामान्य, बल्कि than specifically track and field events.
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) was a war waged by a U.N.-authorized Coalition force from 34 nations led by the संयुक्त States, against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait.
The war is also known under other names, such as the Persian Gulf War, First Gulf War, Gulf War I, or the First Iraq War, before the term `` Iraq War '' became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq War ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ).
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 August 1990 was met with अंतरराष्ट्रीय condemnation, and brought immediate economic sanctions against Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S. forces into Saudi Arabia, and urged other countries to send their own forces to the scene.
an सरणी of nations joined the Coalition.
The great majority of the Coalition 's military forces were from the U.S., with Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom and Egypt as leading contributors, in that order.
Saudi अरब paid around US $ 36 billion of the US $ 60 billion cost.
The war was marked by the beginning of live news on the front lines of the fight, with the primacy of the U.S. network CNN.
The war has also earned the nickname Video खेल युद्ध after the daily broadcast images on board the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm.
The initial conflict to expel Iraqi troops from कुवैत began with an aerial bombardment on 17 January 1991.
This थी followed by a ground assault on 24 February.
This was a decisive victory for the Coalition forces, who liberated Kuwait and उन्नत into Iraqi territory.
The Coalition ceased their advance, and declared a cease-fire 100 घंटों after the ground campaign started.
Aerial and ground कॉम्बैट थी confined to Iraq, Kuwait, and areas on Saudi Arabia 's border.
Iraq launched Scud missiles against Coalition military targets in Saudi Arabia and विरूद्ध Israel.
the निकल, in अमरीकी उपयोग, is a five- cent सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य मिंट.
रचित of 75 % तांबे और 25 % निकल, the टुकड़ा रै महरूम struck चूंकि 1866.
The silver half dime, equal to five cents, had been issued since the 1790s.
The American Civil War caused economic hardship, driving gold and silver from circulation ; in response, in place of low-value coins, the government at first issued paper currency.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional करेंसी note after Spencer M. Clark, head of the Currency Bureau ( today the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ), placed his own portrait on the denomination.
बाद कामयाब परिचय of two-cent और three-cent टुकड़े, बगैर अनमोल मेटल, कॉंग्रेस भी प्राधिकृत a five-cent टुकड़ा consisting of आधार मेटल ; the मिंट began striking इस संस्करण in 1866.
The initial design of the शील्ड निकल थी struck until 1883, then replaced by the Liberty Head nickel.
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as part of a drive to increase the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson nickel followed.
In 2004 and 2005, special designs in honor of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued.
In 2006, the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix Schlag 's original reverse ( or `` tails '' side ), although a new obverse, by Jamie Franki, was substituted.
As of 2013, it costs more than eleven cents to produce a nickel ; the Mint is exploring the possibility of reducing cost by using less expensive metals.
A पोस्टर साथ पुष्प or clusters of flowers produced by twelve species of flowering plants from different families
A flower, sometimes known as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants ( plants of the division magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms ).
The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs.
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( संलयन of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( fusion of sperm and egg from the same flower ).
Some flowers produce diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
पुष्प contain sporangia और हैं the साईट जहाँ gametophytes develop.
Flowers give rise to फल and seeds.
Many flowers have evolved to be attractive to पशु, so as to cause them to be vectors for the transfer of pollen.
In addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering plants, flowers have long been admired and used by humans to beautify their environment, and also as वस्तुएँ of रोमांस, अनुष्ठान, religion, medicine and as a source of food.
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather tactical सेनानी designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat.
it is माना among the most successful modern fighters, with over 100 aerial combat victories with no losses in dogfights.
Following reviews of proposals, the United States Air Force selected McDonnell Douglas ' design in 1967 to meet the service 's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter.
The Eagle first उड़ाया in जुलाई 1972, and entered service in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the Eagle has been exported to Israel, Japan, Saudi Arabia, and other nations.
The F-15 was originally envisioned as a pure air superiority aircraft.
Its design included a secondary ground-attack capability that was largely unused.
The design proved flexible enough that an all-weather strike derivative, the F-15E Strike त्रिभुज, थी बाद developed, and entered service in 1989.
The F-15 Eagle is अपेक्षित to be in service with the U.S. Air Force past 2025.
Mimio is a ब्रांड नाम of a लकीर of प्रौद्योगिकी उत्पाद aimed at the शिक्षा मार्केट.
The primary products are focused around computer whiteboard interactive teaching devices.
MimioCapture devices also allow users to capture सब of the स्याही strokes that are written on the whiteboard.
जब प्रयुक्त in संयोजन साथ a वीडियो प्रोजेक्टर it turns the ordinary whiteboard सतह into a fully इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard.
The product line was originally designed by Virtual Ink.
On October 4, 2006 Newell rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iWB ) product line.
rahab of Jericho
Rahab, ( ; ; ) was, according to the Book of Joshua, a woman who lived in Jericho in the Promised Land and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
Nearly all English translations of Joshua describe उसके as a harlot or prostitute.
The Organization of American States ( Spanish : Organización de los Estados Americanos, Portuguese : Organização dos Estados Americanos, French : संगठन des États américains ), or the OAS, is a regional international organization.
The OAS was founded on 30 April 1948, और रै इसके मुख्यालय in Washington, D.C., United States.
Its सदस्यों are the 35 independent states of the Americas.
Since 26 May 2005, the Secretary General of OAS has been José Miguel Insulza.
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão Colombo ; before 31 October 145120 May 1506 ) was an Italian explorer, navigator, and colonizer, born in the Republic of जेनोआ, in कया is आज northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain, he completed four voyages across the Atlantic Ocean that led to general European awareness of the American continents.
Those voyages, and his efforts to establish permanent settlements on the island of Hispaniola, initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World.
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade routes and colonies, Columbus 's speculative proposal, to reach the East Indies by sailing westward, eventually received the support of the Spanish crown, which saw in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia.
During his first voyage in 1492, instead of reaching Japan as he had intended, Columbus landed in the Bahamas archipelago, at a locale he नामित San Salvador.
Over the course of three more voyages, Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser Antilles, as well as the Caribbean coast of Venezuela और सेंट्रल America, claiming them for the Spanish Empire.
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to reach the Americas ( having been preceded by the Norse expedition led by Leif Ericson in the 11th century ), Columbus 's voyages led to the first lasting European contact with the Americas, inaugurating a period of European exploration, conquest, and colonization that lasted for अनेक centuries.
They had, therefore, an enormous impact in the historical development of the modern Western world.
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments primarily in the लाइट of the spreading of the Christian religion.
Never admitting that he had reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans, rather than the East Indies he had set out for, Columbus called the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` इंडियंस `` ).
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to his arrest and dismissal as governor of the settlements on the island of Hispaniola in 1500, and later to protracted litigation over the benefits which Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown.
Bred in Germany, the Boxer is a breed of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
The कोट is smooth and tight-fitting ; colors are fawn or brindled, with or without white markings, which may cover the entire body.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( वे have broad, short skulls ), and have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), very strong jaws, and a powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey.
The Boxer was bred from the Old अंग्रेज़ी बुल और the now extinct Bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
Boxers were पहला exhibited in a dog show for St. Bernards in Munich in 1895, the first Boxer club being founded the next year.
Based on 2012 अमरीकी kennel क्लबों आंकडे, मुक्केबाज आयोजित स्थिर as the सातवाँ सबसे लोकप्रिय नस्ल of श्वान in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये the तीसरा लगातार साल.
सीरियल ata ( sata ) is a कंप्यूटर bus interface that connects host bus adapters to mass storage devices such as hard disk drives and optical drives.
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; बाद referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ), offering several advantages over the older interface : reduced cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ), native hot swapping, faster data transfer through higher signalling rates, and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol.
SATA host adapters और डिवाइस communicate via a high-speed serial cable over two pairs of conductors.
In contrast, parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications ) used a 16-bit wide data bus with many additional support and control signals, all operating at much lower frequency.
To ensure backward compatibility with legacy ATA software and applications, SATA uses the same basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices.
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in consumer desktop and laptop computers, and has largely replaced pata in नई अंतःस्थापित applications.
SATA 's market share in the desktop PC market was 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded applications that use CompactFlash storage, even though the new CFast standard is based on SATA.
Serial ATA industry compatibility specifications originate from The Serial ATA International Organization ( aka.
SATA-IO, serialata.org ).
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates, समीक्षाएँ, ratifies, and publishes the interoperability specifications, the test cases, and plug-fests.
As with many other industry compatibility standards, the SATA content ownership is transferred to other industry bodies : primarily the INCITS T13 subcommittee ATA, the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ).
The complete specification from SATA-IO.
the शेष of इस आलेख होगा कोशिश to उपयोग the शब्दावली और विशेषताएँ of sata-io.
The history of the Internet began with the development of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California, Los Angeles ( UCLA ), after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
पैकेट switched संजाल ऐसे as arpanet, चिह्नित i at npl in the uk, cyclades, मेरिट संजाल, tymnet, और telenet, यहूद विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s using a किस्में of प्रोटोकॉल.
the arpanet in particular led to the विकास of प्रोटोकॉल लिये internetworking, in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could be joined साथ into a संजाल of संजाल.
in 1982, the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत, और नतीजतन, the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected tcp/ip संजाल, पुकारा the अंतरजाल, थी introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service प्रदाताओं ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, removing the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on संस्कृति and commerce, including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way दूरसंचार networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online information, commerce, entertainment, and social networking.
The Gift is the दूसरी एल्बम by स्कॉटिश singer Susan Boyle, which was released on 8 November 2010.
Boyle hinted that the album has a 1960s feel `` क्युकी कि was [ her ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the एल्बम प्राप्त a nomination in 54th Grammy Awards for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album.
`` This Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a प्रसिद्ध imagist poem by William Carlos Williams.
Professor ऐल्बस पर्सिवल wulfric ब्रायन डम्बल्डोर is a प्रमुख अक्षर और समर्थक of J. K. रोलिंग 's हैरी कुम्हार श्रेणी.
For most of the series, he is the headmaster of the wizarding school हॉग्वार्ट्स.
As part of his backstory, it is revealed that he is the founder and leader of the Order of the Phoenix, an organisation dedicated to fighting the main antagonist of the series, Lord Voldemort.
डम्बल्डोर is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptions of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
After Harris ' death, माइकल Gambon portrayed Dumbledore for all of the remaining films.
Rowling stated she chose the name Dumbledore, which is an Early Modern अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लिये `` bumblebee ``, because of Dumbledore 's love of music : she imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot ''.
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells ) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body.
It acts to reduce blood कैल्सियम ( ca2+ ), opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ).
Calcitonin has been found in fish, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Its महत्व in humans has not been as well established as its importance in other animals, as its function is usually not significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis.
It belongs to calcitonin-like protein family.
A mousepad with a padded wrist rest.
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a surface for placing and moving a computer चूहा.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a table by providing a surface to allow the tracking LED or ball ( in former models ) to measure movement accurately and without jitter.
Some mousepads बढ़ाएँ ergonomics by providing a padded wrist rest.
The स्टेडियम देखी इससे above in 1980
December 29, 2002 implosion
The Riverfront Stadium site in June, 2006.
This photo was लिया इससे the western concourse of Great American Ball Park.
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds ' Hall of Fame and Museum and Main Street, which was extended when the new park was built.
The Cincinnati bengals ' Paul Brown Stadium is in the distance.
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), later known as Cinergy Field ( 1996–2002 ), was the घर of the सिनसिनाटी Reds National League baseball team and the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team.
स्तिथ on the ओहियो नदी in शहर सिनसिनाटी, the स्टेडियम थी बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the घर of `` the बिग रेड यंत्र ``, as the लाल यहूद प्रायः पुकारा in the 1970s.
Construction began on February 1, 1968, और थी completed at a cost of less than $ 50 million.
On June 30, 1970, the Reds hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening, with Hank Aaron hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront.
Two weeks later on July 14, 1970, Riverfront hosted the 1970 Major League Baseball All-Star Game.
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at home plate between Reds star Pete Rose and catcher Ray Fosse of the Cleveland Indians.
In September 1996, Riverfront Stadium was renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a sponsorship सौदे साथ Greater Cincinnati 's energy company, Cinergy Corporation.
In 2001, to make room for ग्रेट American Ball Park, the seating capacity at Cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000.
There was a huge wall in Center Field visible after the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
The stadium was demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
Nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer, headquartered in yangsan, दक्षिण gyeongsang Province, and Seoul, both in South Korea.
Its major domestic प्रतिस्पर्धी are Hankook Tire and Kumho Tires.
The company 's name is reflected in the company slogan, `` Next Century Tire. ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large majority of people in a country or group who do not express their opinions publicly.
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President Richard Nixon in a November 3, 1969, speech in which he said, `` And so tonight—to you, the great silent majority of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support. ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join in the large demonstrations against the Vietnam War at the time, who did not join in the counterculture, and who did not participate in public discourse.
Nixon along with many others देखी this group of Middle Americans as being overshadowed in the media by the more vocal minority.
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a प्रेयोक्ति referring to all the people who have died, and others have used it before and after Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the world.
Sam, a rhesus monkey, flew to an altitude of 88 km in 1959.
( NASA )
पहले इंसानो गई into स्पेस, अनेक पशु यहूद शुभारम्भ into स्पेस, सहित numerous बंदरों, so कि वैज्ञानिकों could investigate the biological प्रभाव of स्पेस travel.
The United States launched flights containing primate कार्गो primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985.
फ़्रांस शुभारम्भ दो monkey-carrying फ़्लाइट in 1967.
the सोवियत संघ और रूस शुभारम्भ बंदरों between 1983 और 1996.
सबसे बंदरों were anesthetized before lift-off.
overall thirty-two monkeys flew in the space program ; none flew more than once.
Numerous back-up monkeys also went through the programs but never flew.
Monkeys from several species were used, including rhesus monkeys, cynomolgus monkeys, गिलहरी बंदरों, और pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes rather than monkeys ) were also used.
RAID ( redundant array of independent डिस्क, originally redundant array of inexpensive disks ) is a storage technology that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit.
Data is distributed across the drives in one of several ways called `` RAID levels '', depending on the level of अतिरेक and performance required.
The term `` RAID '' was first defined by David Patterson, Garth A. Gibson, and Randy Katz at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Berkeley in 1987.
Marketers representing उद्योग रेड निर्माताओं later attempted to reinvent the term to describe a redundant array of independent disks as a means of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology.
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes that can divide और replicate आंकड़ा among अनेक शारीरिक ड्राइव : रेड is an उदाहरण of storage virtualization and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single drive.
The different schemes or architectures हैं named by the word RAID followed by a number ( e.g. RAID 0, RAID 1 ).
Each scheme provides a different balance between the key goals : reliability and उपलब्धता, प्रदर्शन और capacity.
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide protection against unrecoverable ( sector ) read errors, as well as whole disk failure.
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate immune system.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
विशाल granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells.
the बिग lebowski is a 1998 अंधेरा कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by जोएल और ethan कोएन.
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff lebowski, an बेरोजगार Los Angeles slacker and avid bowler, nicknamed `` The Dude. ''
After a case of mistaken identity, The Dude is introduced to a millionaire also named Jeffrey Lebowski.
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped, he commissions The Dude to deliver the ransom to secure her release.
the योजना goes awry जब the यार 's dost वाल्टर sobchak ( जॉन गुडमैन ) योजनाएं to रखना the पूरा ransom.
Steve Buscemi, Philip Seymour Hoffman, David Huddleston, Julianne Moore, Tara Reid, and John turturro भी स्टार in the फिल्मी, which is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '', played by Sam Elliott.
The film is loosely inspired by the work of Raymond Chandler.
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler kind of story – how it moves episodically, and deals with the characters trying to unravel a mystery, as well as having a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant. ''
The original score was composed by Carter Burwell, a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers.
The Big Lebowski was a निराशा at the u.S. box office and received mixed reviews at the time of its release.
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time, and the film has become a cult favorite, noted for its idiosyncratic characters, dream sequences, unconventional dialogue, and eclectic soundtrack.
Severus Snape is a fictional character in the Harry कुम्हार किताब series written by J.K. Rowling.
In the first novel of the series, he is hostile toward Harry and is built up to be the primary antagonist until the final अध्याय.
As the series progresses, Snape 's character becomes more परतदार और जटिल.
Rowling does not fully reveal the details of his सच्चा loyalties जबतक the end of the final book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Over the course of the series, Snape 's portrayal evolves from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily सिखाती potions at हॉग्वार्ट्स, हालांकि in the sixth novel he teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts, a position which he was known to have desired throughout the series.
He ultimately becomes Headmaster of Hogwarts in the final novel.
Rowling has described him as `` a तोहफा of a character ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn food of Native American origin, that is common in the Southern United States and mainly eaten at breakfast.
Modern grits are commonly बना of alkali-treated corn known as hominy.
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from around the world such as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` Instant grits '' have been processed to speed cooking.
The word `` grits '' derives from the Old English शब्द `` grytt, '' meaning coarse meal.
This word originally referred to गेहूं और other porridges now known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize, unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages, is a food derived from corn ( a New World plant ) and `` corn '' had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions.
`` Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically, in the American South the word was invariably singular notwithstanding its plural form ( cf. such food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '', likewise plural in form, but singular in use ).
Sometimes, grits are called sofkee or sofkey ( from a native अमरीकी Muskogee word ).
In molecular biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore, elevated levels measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether this production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' and over the counter hcg आहार उत्पाद और declared them fraudulent and illegal.
The लास Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
it is उत्पादित by the coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया, और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola कम्पनी in the संयुक्त राज्य चूंकि कूच 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a पेटेंट medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered जल और sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate लिये soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors.
the coca-cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including caffeine-free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, coca-cola थी the संसार 's most valuable brand.
An ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant degree of independence, who is charged with representing the रूचि of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights.
In some countries an Inspector General, Citizen Advocate or other official may have duties similar to those of a national ombudsman, and may also be appointed by the legislature.
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or municipal government, and unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by, or even work for, a corporation such as a utility supplier or a newspaper, for an NGO, or for a professional regulatory body.
Whether appointed by the legislature, the executive, or an संगठन ( or, कम अक्सर, निर्वाचित by the constituency that he or she serves ), the typical duties of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them, usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation.
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify systemic issues leading to poor service or breaches of लोगों 's rights.
At the national level, most ombudsmen have a चौड़ी जनादेश to deal with the entire public sector, and sometimes also elements of the private sector ( for example, contracted service providers ).
In some cases, there is a अधिक प्रतिबंधित mandate, for example with particular sectors of society.
More recent developments have included the creation of specialised Children 's Ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies.
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g. the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ).
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged maladministration to promoting and protecting human rights, the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution.
the पोस्ट of ombudsman था by the समाप्त of the 20th सदी महरूम instituted by सबसे सरकारें और by कुछ intergovernmental संगठन ऐसे as the यूरोपीय Union.
Making a complaint to an ombudsman is usually free of charge.
Sign at georgetown University Washington DC
Sign in Banjul, The Gambia
Autumn in New England, watercolor, मौरिस Prendergast.
Ca. 1910–1913
Fall foliage in the town of स्टो, वर्मांट
New England is a प्रदेश in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the six states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.
New England is bordered by New York state to the southwest, Quebec to the northwest, and New Brunswick and the अटलांटिक समंदर to the east.
In one of the earliest English settlements in North America, Pilgrims from England first settled in New England in 1620, to form Plymouth Colony.
Ten years later, the Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in Boston, यूँ forming Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Over the next 130 years, New England fought in four फ्रेंच और भारतीय युद्धों, जबतक the British defeated the French and their native allies in North America.
In the late 18th century, the New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the British Parliament 's efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists.
The Boston Tea Party was a विरोध to which Great Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government, which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the British authorities from New England in spring 1776, and the Declaration of Independence in July 1776.
Some of the first movements of American literature, philosophy, and education originated in New England.
The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery, and was the first region of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial क्रान्ति.
Today, New England is a major world center of education, high technology, insurance, and medicine.
Boston is its cultural, financial, educational, medical and transportation center.
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities known as New England towns, which are often governed by town meeting.
The only unincorporated territory in New England exists in the sparse, northern regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
Since 1970, voters have more often supported liberal candidates at the state and federal level than those of कोई अन्य region in the United States.
New इंग्लैण्ड is the only one of the United States Census Bureau 's nine regional divisions whose name does not derive from its geography, and it is the only multi-state region with clear, consistent boundaries.
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity set apart from the rest of the country, although the terms of this identity हैं प्रायः लडे, combining Puritanism with liberalism, agrarian life with industry, and isolation with immigration.
आपात !
is an American television series that combines the medical drama and action-adventure genres.
It was produced by Mark VII सीमित और वितरित by Universal Studios.
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15, 1972, on NBC, replacing the two short-lived series The Partners and The Good Life, and ran until September 3, 1977, with six additional two-hour television films during the following two years.
आपात !
was created and produced by Jack Webb and Robert A. Cinader, both of whom were also responsible for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet.
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 U.S. states in the eastern part of the contiguous United States, parts of Canada and three countries in South America.
Places that use Eastern Standard Time ( EST ) जब observing standard time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
पूर्वी daylight समय ( edt ), जब observing daylight छायांकन समय ( spring/summer ) is 4 घंटों पीछे समन्वित सार्वभौमिक Time ( ).
In the northern parts of the time zone, during the second Sunday in March, at 2:00 a.m. EST, clocks are उन्नत to 3:00 a.m. edt leaving a one hour `` gap. ''
During the first Sunday in November, at 2:00 a.m. EDT, घड़ियाँ हैं स्थानांतरित वापस to 1:00 a.m. EST, thus `` duplicating '' one hour.
Southern parts of the zone ( Panama and the Caribbean ) do not observe daylight saving.
मानक रूप of the आवधिक तालिका.
The colors represent अलग categories of elements explained below.
The periodic तालिका is a table प्रदर्शक of the chemical elements, organized on the basis of their atomic numbers, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
तत्व हैं प्रस्तुत in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( क्रमांक of protons ).
The standard form of तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body of elements, positioned above a smaller double row of elements.
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the बाएँ, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the कालम of the s-, d-, and p-blocks are called groups, with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates recurring trends, any such table can be used to derive संबंध between the गुण of the elements and predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior, and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited with the publication, in 1869, of the पहला widely पहचाना periodic table.
He developed his table to illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also पूर्वानुमानित कुछ गुण of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the तत्व in question were subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from atomic numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to मौजूद naturally, although some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
The elements after 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate कोई ऐसे परिवर्धन होने a पदार्थ of जारी बहस.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories.
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally created by Swedish programmer Markus `` Notch '' Persson and later developed and published by Mojang.
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17, 2009, as a developmental alpha version and, after gradual updates, was published as a full release version on November 18, 2011.
A version for Android was released a month earlier on October 7, and an iOS संस्करण थी released on November 17, 2011.
On May 9, 2012, the game was released on Xbox 360 as an एक्सबॉक्स Live Arcade game, co-developed by 4J Studios.
All versions of Minecraft receive periodic अद्यतन.
The creative and building aspects of Minecraft allow players to build constructions out of textured घन in a 3d procedurally generated world.
Other activities in the game include खोजी, gathering resources, crafting and combat.
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival, which requires players to acquire resources and maintain their स्वास्थ्य और भूख ; and creative, where players have an unlimited supply of resources, the ability to fly, and no health or hunger.
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival, differing only in difficulty ; it is set to hardest setting and respawning is disabled, forcing players to delete their worlds upon death.
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award, Best Downloadable Game Award, and the Best Debut Game Award from the Game Developers Choice Awards ; and the Audience Award, as well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize, from the Independent Games Festival in 2011.
In 2012, Minecraft was awarded a Golden Joystick Award in the category Best Downloadable Game.
As of April 8, 2013, the game has sold over 10 million copies on PC और as of जनवरी 22, 2013, over 20 million copies across all platforms.
The Dark नाईट is a 2008 British-American superhero film directed, produced, and co-written by Christopher Nolan.
Based on the DC Comics अक्षर बैटमैन, the film is the second part of Nolan 's Batman film series and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of ब्रूस wayne/batman, साथ a returning cast of Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth, Gary Oldman as James Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox.
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ), Gotham 's newly elected District Attorney and the consort of Bruce Wayne 's childhood friend Rachel dawes ( मैगी जिलएनहॉल ), जो joins Batman and the police in combating the new rising threat of a criminal mastermind calling himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ).
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel, and the 1996 series, which retold Two-Face 's origin.
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to Batman in Batman No. 1 ( 1940 ), in a story लिखा by विधेयक उंगली.
The Dark नाईट थी फिल्माया primarily in शिकागो, as खूब as in अनेक अन्य स्थितियाँ in the संयुक्त राज्य, the संयुक्त किंगडम, और हांग काँग.
Nolan used an IMAX कैमरा to film some sequences, including the Joker 's first appearance in the film.
On January 22, 2008, some months after he had completed filming on The Dark Knight and six months before the film 's release, Heath Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs, leading to intense attention from the press and movie-going public.
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight, developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker, but after Ledger 's death, the studio refocused its promotional campaign.
The Dark Knight was released on July 16, 2008 in Australia, on July 18, 2008 in North America, and on July 24, 2008 in the संयुक्त Kingdom.
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero films ever made, the film received highly positive reviews and set numerous records during its theatrical run.
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide, it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all time, unadjusted for inflation.
The film received eight Academy Award nominations ; it won the award for Best Sound Editing and Ledger was posthumously awarded Best Supporting Actor.
The Dark Knight Rises, the final part of the trilogy, was released on July 20, 2012.
The timeline of radio lists within the history of radio, the technology and events that produced instruments that use radio waves and activities that लोगों undertook.
Later, the history is dominated by programming and contents, which is करीब to general history.
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South Wales, Australia.
It was conceived and largely built by Danish architect Jørn Utzon, opening in 1973 after a long gestation that began with his competition-winning design in 1957.
जोसेफ Cahill 's New South Wales Government gave the go-ahead for work to begin in 1958.
The government 's bold decision to select Utzon 's design is often overshadowed by the scandal that followed.
It is on Bennelong Point in Sydney Harbour, बंद to the Sydney Harbour Bridge.
it sits at the northeastern टिप of the सिडनी सेंट्रल कारोबार ज़िला ( the सीबीडी ), घिरी on तीन पहलू by the harbour ( सिडनी कोव और फार्म कोव ) और अंतर्देशीय by the royal botanic gardens.
Contrary to its नाम, it houses multiple performance venues.
It is among the busiest performing कला केंद्रों in the world, hosting over 1,500 performances each year attended by some 1.2 million people.
It provides a venue for many performing-arts कंपनियाँ, सहित the चार key resident companies Opera Australia, The Australian Ballet, the Sydney Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and presents a wide range of productions on its own account.
It is also one of the most popular visitor attractions in Australia, with more than seven million people visiting each year, 300,000 of whom take a guided tour.
It is administered by the Sydney Opera House Trust, under the New South वेल्स Ministry of the Arts.
On 28 June 2007, it was बना a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
It is one of the 20th century 's most distinctive इमारतें and one of the most famous performing arts centres in the world.
A graph of body mass index as a function of देह द्रव्यमान and body height is shown above.
The dashed lines represent subdivisions within a major class.
For instance the `` Underweight '' classification is further divided into `` severe '', `` moderate '', and `` mild '' subclasses.
The body mass index ( BMI ), or Quetelet index, is a माप लिये इंसान body shape based on an individual 's weight and height.
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the Belgian polymath adolphe quetelet during the course of developing `` social physics ''.
Body mass index is defined as the individual 's देह द्रव्यमान divided by the square of their height.
The formulae universally used in medicine produce a unit of measure of kg/m2.
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart, which displays BMI as a function of weight ( horizontal axis ) and height ( vertical axis ) using contour lines for different values of BMI or colors for different BMI categories.
† The फ़ैक्टर लिये UK/US units is more precisely 703.06957964, but that level of precision is not meaningful for this calculation.
to कार्य इससे स्टोन और पाउंड पहला गुणा the स्टोन by 14 तब add the पाउंड to दे the पूरे द्रव्यमान in पाउंड ; to कार्य इससे फीट और इंच पहला गुणा the फीट by 12 तब add the इंच to दे the पूरे height in inches.
Thomas Paine ( January 29, 1737 ( ns फ़रवरी 9, 1737 ) – June 8, 1809 ) was an English-American political activist, author, political theorist and revolutionary.
As the author of two highly influential pamphlets at the start of the American Revolution, he inspired the Patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain.
His ideas reflected Enlightenment era rhetoric of transnational human rights.
He has महरूम पुकारा `` a corsetmaker by trade, a journalist by profession, and a propagandist by inclination. ''
Born in Thetford, England, in the county of Norfolk, Paine emigrated to the British American colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
His principal contributions were the powerful, widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain, and The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said, `` Without the pen of the author of Common भाव, the तलवार of वॉशिंगटन would have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s, becoming deeply involved in the French Revolution.
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 ), in part a defence of the French Revolution विरूद्ध its critics.
His हमले on अंग्रेजों writer Edmund Burke led to a trial and conviction in absentia in 1792 for the crime of seditious libel.
In 1792, despite not being able to speak French, he was elected to the फ्रेंच National Convention.
The girondists regarded him as an ally.
Consequently, the Montagnards, especially Robespierre, regarded him as an enemy.
In December 1793, he was arrested and imprisoned in Paris, then released in 1794.
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ), his book that advocates deism, promotes reason and freethinking, and argues against institutionalized धर्म in सामान्य और ईसाई doctrine in particular.
He also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of property, and introduced the अवधारणा of a गारंटी minimum income.
In 1802, he returned to America where he died on जून 8, 1809.
Only six people attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for his ridicule of Christianity.
Clinical trials are sets of tests in चिकित्सा research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically, information about adverse drug reactions and adverse effects of other treatments ) for health interventions ( e.g., drugs, diagnostics, devices, therapy protocols ).
They are conducted only after satisfactory information रै महरूम gathered on the quality of the non clinical safety, and health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought.
Previously, many emerging countries did not require local trials लिये product approvals.
अभी, हालांकि उभरते देशों स्टिल accept आंकड़ा इससे u.s./europe, वे भी आवश्यकता कुछ लोकल ट्रायल.
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development, investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot studies, and subsequently conduct larger scale studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest.
As positive safety and efficacy data are gathered, the number of मरीजों is typically increased.
Clinical trials can vary in size, and can involve a single research entity in one country or many such entities in multiple countries.
A full series of trials may incur sizable costs, और the burden of paying for all the necessary people and services is usually borne by the sponsor, which may be a governmental organization or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device company.
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the संसाधन of the प्रायोजक, a clinical trial is managed by an outsourced partner, such as a contract research organization or a clinical trials unit in the academic sector.
The Green Bay Packers are an American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( nfc ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, having been organized and playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned major league professional sports team in the United States.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun, the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its लोकल प्रशंसक आधार और media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ), सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super Bowl II ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents, the Chicago Bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The bears-packers फंसने is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl alcohol ), the same type of दारू found in alcoholic beverages.
It is सबसे प्रायः used as a motor fuel, mainly as a biofuel additive for gasoline.
World ethanol production for transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 billion to more than 52 billion liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in global gasoline type fuel use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
in 2011 विश्वव्यापी इथेनॉल ईंधन उत्पादन पहुँचे 22.36 अरब u.S. द्रव गैलन ( bg ) ( 84.6 अरब liters ), साथ the संयुक्त राज्य as the शीर्ष निर्माता साथ 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ), हिसाब लिये 62.2 % of वैश्विक उत्पादन, followed by ब्राज़ील साथ 5.6 bg ( 21.1 अरब liters ).
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon equivalency `` ( GGE ) value of, which means 1.5 gallons of ethanol produce the energy of one gallon of gasoline.
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United States, and together both countries were जिम्मेदार लिये 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011.
Most cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10 % ethanol, and ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived इससे domestic sources in 2011.
चूंकि 1976 the ब्राज़ीलियाई सरकारी रै बना it अनिवार्य to मिश्रण इथेनॉल साथ गैसोलीन, और चूंकि 2007 the विधिक मिश्रण is around 25 % इथेनॉल और 75 % गैसोलीन ( E25 ).
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ).
Bioethanol is a form of बेदर्दी उर्जा कि can be produced from agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made from very common crops such as sugar cane, आलू, manioc and corn.
There has been considerable debate about how useful bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline.
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land required for crops, as well as the energy and pollution balance of the whole cycle of ethanol production, especially from corn.
Recent developments साथ cellulosic ethanol production and commercialization may allay some of these concerns.
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise because cellulose fibers, a major and universal component in plant cells walls, can be used to produce ethanol.
According to the International Energy Agency, cellulosic ethanol could allow ethanol fuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously thought.
Saab 9-3 SportCombi BioPower.
The second E85 flexifuel model introduced by Saab in the Swedish market.
A plaque commemorating the location of the साराजेवो assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination ( चित्र लिया in 2009 )
on 28 जून 1914, archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, वारिस presumptive to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन, और उसके बीवी, सोफी, duchess of hohenberg, यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by gavrilo princip, एक of a समूह of छह बोस्नियाई serb हत्यारे समन्वित by डेनियल Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a वृहद सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया.
The assassins ' motives यहूद सतत with the movement that later became known as Young Bosnia.
Serbian military officers stood पीछे the attack.
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols and trained them.
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914.
The other षड्यंत्रकारियों यहूद गिरफ्तार और आजमाया पहले a सर्बियाई कंगारू अदालत on the french-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन of the शीर्ष सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों.
Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and related records.
कार्यभार of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later.
Renée Kathleen zellweger ( born April 25, 1969 ) is an American actress and producer.
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ), and subsequently received two nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress for her roles as Bridget Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her प्रदर्शन in the drama Cold Mountain ( 2003 ).
वो रै जीती an अकादमी पुरस्कार, तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, तीन स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और a bafta पुरस्कार ; थी नामित hasty खीर 's स्त्री of the साल in 2009 ; और स्थापित herself as एक of the highest-paid हॉलीवुड अभिनेत्रियों as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest bones in the human body, the malleus, the incus and the stapes.
They are contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
the अनुपस्थिति of the auditory ossicles होता constitute a moderate-to-severe सुनना घाटा.
The term `` ossicles '' literally means `` tiny bones '' and commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body.
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical interpretation originally derived from a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah, in the Hebrew Scriptures.
It is often thought of as an eschatological Messianic Age or world to come and is related to the biblical concept of the Kingdom of God.
Generally, Christians believe that the New Covenant was instituted at the Last Supper as part of the eucharist, which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment.
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the नई वचन, as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian believers and God that will be in full fruition after the Second Coming of Christ ; that is, it will not only be in full fruition in believing hearts, but in the future external world as well.
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the New Covenant is seen in most modern English translations of the New Testament with the saying : `` this cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood ''.
Christians believe that Jesus is the mediator of the New Covenant, and that the Blood of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the जरूरी रक्त of the covenant.
As with all covenants between God and man described in the Bible, the New Covenant is माना `` a बंध in रक्त sovereignly administered by God. ''
It has been theorized that the New Covenant is the Law of Christ as spoken during his Sermon on the Mount.
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the President of the United States documents the most prominent cases of each presidency.
As granted by the संविधान ( आलेख ii, Section 2, Clause 1 ), Presidents have the power to grant clemency in one or more of the following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon, to commute a sentence, or to rescind a fine.
U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों have no power to grant clemency for crimes prosecuted under state law.
As to the difference between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an executive order vacating a conviction.
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone currently serving a sentence for a crime pursuant to a conviction, बगैर vacating the conviction itself.
Approximately 20,000 pardons and clemencies were issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th century alone.
The records of अधिनियमों of clemency were public until 1934.
In 1981 the Office of the Pardon Attorney was created and रिकॉर्ड इससे President H. W. Bush forward are now listed.
This list includes pardons and commutations.
Tampa ( ) is a city in the u.S. state of Florida.
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is located on the वेस्ट coast of Florida, on Tampa Bay near the Gulf of Mexico.
The population of Tampa in 2011 was 346,037.
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by indigenous peoples of the Safety Harbor culture, सबसे notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy, who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay.
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century, but there were no permanent American or European settlements within today 's city limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819.
In 1824, the United States Army established a frontier outpost called Fort Brooke at the mouth of the Hillsborough River, near the site of today 's Tampa Convention Center.
The first civilian residents were pioneers who settled near the fort for protection from the आसपास seminole जनसांख्यिकी.
The town grew slowly until the 1880s, when railroad links, the discovery of phosphate, and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started Tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important नगर by the जल्दी 1900s.
Today, Tampa is a part of the महानगर area most commonly referred to as the Tampa Bay Area.
लिये u.S. जनसांख्यिकी उद्देश्य, tampa is भाग of the tampa-st. petersburg-clearwater, फ्लोरिडा महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
The four-county क्षेत्रफल is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents, making it the second largest metropolitan statistical area ( MSA ) in the state, and the fourth largest in the Southeastern United States, behind Miami, Washington, D.C., and Atlanta.
The Greater Tampa Bay area has just over 4 million residents and generally includes the Tampa and Sarasota metro areas.
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data showed an average annual growth of 2.47 percent, or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year.
between 2000 और 2006, the वृहद tampa खाड़ी मार्केट अनुभवी a संयुक्त विकास रेट of 14.8 प्रतिशत, growing इससे 3.4 लाख to 3.9 लाख और hitting the 4 लाख लोगों चिह्नित on अप्रैल 1, 2007.
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have 4,310,524 people and a 2017 projection of 4,536,854 people.
Tampa has a number of sports teams, such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the National Football League, the Tampa Bay Lightning of the नेशनल Hockey League, and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League.
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the North American Soccer League play their home games in neighboring St. Petersburg, Florida.
In 2008, Tampa was क्रमित as the 5th best outdoor city by Forbes.
A 2004 survey by the NYU newspaper Washington Square News ranked Tampa as a top नगर लिये `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is अभी ranked as a `` Gamma '' world city by Loughborough University.
According to Loughborough, Tampa ranks alongside other world cities such as Phoenix, Santo Domingo, and Osaka.
In recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in high-market demand from consumers, signaling more wealth concentrated in the area.
tampa hosted the 2012 Republican National Convention.
The Chevrolet Cavalier was a compact automobile produced from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors.
Built on the company 's J platform, the Cavalier produced the उच्चतम बिक्री in 1984.
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and referred to as AT & T ( formerly Cingular Wireless LLC ), is a wholly owned subsidiary of AT & T Inc. that provides wireless services to 107 million subscribers in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
at & t गतिशीलता is the दूसरी largest बेतार दूरसंचार प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य और प्यूर्टो रीको, पीछे verizon बेतार, जिससे serves 115.78 लाख ग्राहक as of the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012.
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the Lenox Park area of DeKalb Co. Georgia, just outside Atlanta.
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC from 2000 to 2007, a joint venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth, the company acquired the old AT & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC बाद acquired the असली at & t और re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
Cingular became wholly owned by AT & T in December 2006 as a result of AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth.
In January 2007, Cingular confirmed it would re-brand itself under the AT & T name.
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately, for both regulatory and brand-awareness reasons both brands were used in the company 's signage and advertising during a transition period.
The transition concluded in late June, just prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
On March 20, 2011, AT & T Mobility announced its intention to acquire T-Mobile USA इससे डॉयचे telekom लिये $ 39 अरब.
If it had received government and regulatory approval, AT & T होता have had more than 130 million subscribers.
However, the U.S. Department of Justice, the संघीय संचार आयोग, और AT & T Mobility 's competitors ( such as Sprint Nextel ) opposed the move on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market.
In December 2011, in the face of दोनो सरकारी और फैली consumer opposition, AT & T withdrew their offer to complete the merger.
Martin Luther King, Jr. ( January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968 ) was an American clergyman, activist, और नेता in the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
He is best known for his role in the advancement of civil rights using nonviolent civil disobedience.
King has become a नेशनल प्रतीक in the history of American progressivism.
A बैपटिस्ट मंत्री, किंग became a सिविल अधिकारों activist जल्दी in उसके करियर.
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott and helped found the Southern ईसाई Leadership Conference ( SCLC ) in 1957, serving as its first president.
With the SCLC, King led an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in Albany, Georgia, in 1962, and organized nonviolent protests in Birmingham, Alabama, that attracted national attention following television news coverage of the brutal police response.
King also helped to organize the 1963 March on Washington, where he delivered his `` I Have a Dream `` speech.
There, he स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as एक of the महानतम orators in अमरीकी इतिहास.
He also established his reputation as a कट्टरपंथी, और became an object of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's COINTELPRO for the rest of his life.
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties, recorded his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government officials, and on one occasion, mailed King a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide.
On October 14, 1964, King received the Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality through nonviolence.
In 1965, he और the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches and the following year, he took the movement north to Chicago.
In the final years of his life, King expanded his focus to include poverty and the Vietnam War, alienating many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
King was नियोजन a नेशनल occupation of Washington, D.C., called the Poor People 's Campaign.
King was assassinated on April 4, 1968, in Memphis, Tennessee.
His death was followed by riots in many U.S. cities.
Allegations that James Earl Ray, the man convicted of killing King, had been framed or acted in concert with government agents persisted for decades after the shooting, and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a षड्यंत्र against King.
King was awarded the अध्यक्षीय Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously.
मार्टिन लूथर किंग, Jr. Day was established as a U.S. federal holiday in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have been renamed in his honor.
A memorial statue on the National Mall was खोली to the public in 2011.
The tiger ( पेंथेरा tigris ) is the largest बिल्ली species, reaching a total body length of up to and weighing up to.
It is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only the polar bear and the brown bear ).
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of dark vertical stripes on reddish-orange fur with a lighter underside.
It has exceptionally stout teeth, and the canines हैं the longest among living felids with a crown height of as much as or even.
In zoos, tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years, which also seems to be their longevity in the wild.
वे हैं territorial और generally एकान्त लकिन सोशल पशु, प्रायः requiring विशाल संलग्न क्षेत्रों of आवास कि support उनके शिकार आवश्यकताएँ.
This, coupled with the fact that they are indigenous to some of the more densely populated places on Earth, has caused significant conflicts with humans.
Tigers once ranged widely across Asia, from Turkey in the west to the eastern coast of Russia.
Over the past 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their historic range, and have been extirpated from southwest and central Asia, from the islands of Java and Bali, and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia.
Today, they range from the Siberian taiga to open grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps.
The remaining six tiger subspecies have been classified as endangered by IUCN.
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 और 3,948 individuals, down from around 100,000 at the start of the 20th century, with most remaining populations occurring in small pockets isolated from each other.
Major reasons for जनसांख्यिकी decline include habitat destruction, habitat fragmentation and poaching.
The extent of area occupied by tigers is estimated at less than, a 41 % decline from the area estimated in the mid-1990s.
Tigers are among the most recognisable and popular of the world 's charismatic megafauna.
They have featured prominently in ancient mythology and folklore, and continue to be depicted in modern films and literature.
Tigers appear on many flags, coats of arms, and as mascots for sporting teams.
The Bengal tiger is the national animal of both India and Bangladesh.
The सरलीकृत आतंरिक structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin cycle and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes.
These प्रतिक्रियाएँ take the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this process occurs only when light is available.
Plants do not carry out the calvin cycle by night.
They, instead, release sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, C4 carbon fixation, and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
A linen handkerchief with खींचा thread embroidery around the edges
Linen cloth recovered from Qumran Cave 1 near the मुर्दे समुद्र.
Linen ( ) is a textile made from the fibers of the flax संयंत्र, linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, but when it is made into garments, it is valued लिये इसके exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather.
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin and cognates with the Latin name for the flax plant linum, and the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ).
This word history has given rise to a number of other terms in English, the most notable of which is the English word line, derived from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line.
Textiles in a linen weave texture, even when made of cotton, hemp and other non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen ''.
Such fabrics generally have उनके अपना विशिष्ट names अन्य than लिनेन ; लिये उदाहरण, ठीक कपास धागे in a linen-style बुनते is पुकारा madapolam.
The collective term `` linens `` is still often used generically to describe a class of woven and even knitted bed, bath, table and kitchen textiles.
The name linens is retained because traditionally, linen was used for many of ये items.
In the past, the word `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight undergarments such as shirts, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a word also cognate with linen ), and detachable shirt collars and cuffs, which were historically made almost exclusively आउट of लिनेन.
The inside cloth layer of fine composite clothing garments ( as for example jackets ) was traditionally made of linen, and this is the origin of the word lining.
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the world : their history goes वापस अनेक हज़ारों of years.
Fragments of straw, seeds, fibers, yarns, and various types of fabrics which date back to about 8000 BC have been found in Swiss झील dwellings.
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in Georgia suggest the use of woven linen fabrics from wild flax may date back even earlier to 36,000 BP.
Linen was sometimes प्रयुक्त as currency in ancient Egypt.
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen because it was seen as a symbol of light and purity, and as a display of wealth.
Some of these fabrics, woven from hand spun yarns, were very fine for their day, but are coarse compared to modern linen.
Today, linen is usually an expensive वस्त्र, and is produced in relatively small quantities.
It has a long `` staple '' ( individual fiber length ) relative to cotton and other natural fibers.
Many products are made of linen : aprons, bags, towels ( swimmers, bath, beach, देह और wash towels ), napkins, bed linens, linen tablecloths, runners, chair covers, and men 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 जब it was not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions हैं Spain, who won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight different national teams.
Brazil have won five times, and they are the only टोली to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the फाइनल मैच of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
The is an विस्तार device for the Wii Remote video game controller for the Wii that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion.
According to Nintendo, the sensor in the device supplements the accelerometer and Sensor बार capabilities of the Wii Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time.
The Wii 's successor console, the Wii U, supports the Wii motionplus and its peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary.
Majulah singapura ( onward सिंगापुर ) is the नेशनल गान of सिंगापुर.
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song for official functions of the नगर परिषद of Singapore, the song was selected in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government.
Upon full स्वतंत्रता in 1965, Majulah Singapura was formally adopted as Singapore 's national anthem.
By law the anthem may only be sung with its original Malay lyrics, although there exist authorized translations of the lyrics of the anthem in Singapore 's three other official languages : English, Mandarin and Tamil.
Originally composed in the key of G major, in 2001 the national anthem was officially relaunched in the lower key of F major as this was said to allow for a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement ''.
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and armed forces camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day, during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken.
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on occasions of national celebration or national significance such as at the National Day Parade, at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government departments, and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine, 1541.
Shipbuilding is the construction of ships and floating बरतन.
It normally takes place in a specialized facility known as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, also called shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation that traces its जड़ें to before recorded history.
Shipbuilding and ship मरम्मत, both commercial and military, are referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
The construction of boats is a similar activity called boat building.
The dismantling of ships is called ship breaking.
Wakonda is a कस्बा in मिट्टी County, South Dakota, United States.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 321 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त States of America.
As defined by the संयुक्त States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations, including city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government that शामिल the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of a county, or county equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated places.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities भीतर उनके पारिभाषित limits, which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S. metropolitan area populations.
alt=larger flashcart, shown with small card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress images, homebrew video games and downloaded commercial games ( since the Nintendo DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ).
Licensed डेवलपर, however, can use a blue Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator box to flash cards.
These devices are also known as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There are two main classes of flashcarts : older devices which fit in Slot-2 ( the Game लड़के Advance Game Pak slot ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale ( inherited from their use with Game Boy Advance ), but require a booting tool in Slot-1 in order to use the touch screen and other DS features.
Second-generation devices ( those which only use Slot-1 ) do not work with GBA homebrew, but became less expensive and easier to use, rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price.
First-generation devices include GBA flash cartridges, GBAMP cf, supercard, and M3.
second-generation डिवाइस include R4 Revolution, CycloDS, G6 Real and DS-X.
The storage device either contains फ्लैश मेमोरी or a slot for a memory card to store homebrew.
Storage devices with a memory-card slot usually have more storage capacity than flash-memory devices.
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( Mb ), memory-card capacity is प्रायः measured in megabytes ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and Game Boy Advance ROMs ; special features ( such as ability to play media files ) ; physical size and cost.
Strictly speaking, a storage device is not necessary for DS with FlashMe installed because homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB.
However, this is not an easily-portable method because the ds needs to be within range of a suitable Wi-Fi card.
are American people of Japanese विरासत.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest Asian American communities, but in recent decades, it has become the sixth largest group at roughly 1,304,286, including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 census, the largest Japanese American communities were found in California with 272,528, Hawaii with 185,502, New York with 37,780, Washington with 35,008, and Illinois with 17,542.
Southern California has the largest Japanese-American population in उत्तर अमेरिका.
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which हाइलाइट significant achievements and milestones based upon Billboard magazine 's singles charts, most notably the Billboard Hot 100.
This list spans from the समस्या दिनाँक जनवरी 1, 1955 to present.
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the issue dated अगस्त 4, 1958, and is currently the standard popular music chart in the United States.
Prior to the सृष्टि of the hot 100, Billboard published four singles charts : `` Best Sellers in Stores '', `` Most Played by Jockeys '', `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
These charts, जिससे ranged from 20 to 100 slots, were phased out at different times between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically not part of the Hot 100 chart history, their data is included for कम्प्यूटेशनल उद्देश्य, और to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
All items listed below are from the Hot 100 era, unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ).
V is an अमरीकी science fiction television series that ran for two seasons on ABC, from November 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson, the new series chronicles the arrival on Earth of a technologically advanced alien species which ostensibly comes in peace, but actually has sinister motives.
V stars Morena Baccarin, Lourdes Benedicto, Morris शाहबलूत, जोएल gretsch, लोगन Huffman, Charles Mesure, Elizabeth Mitchell, Laura Vandervoort and Scott Wolf, and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum, Yves Simoneau, Scott Peters, and Jace Hall.
The series was produced by The Scott Peters Company, HDFilms and Warner Bros. Television.
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity, in which the participants use a Global Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers, called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook जहाँ the geocacher enters the date they found it and signs it with their established code name.
After signing into the log, the cache must be placed back exactly where the व्यक्ति found it.
Larger containers such as plastic storage containers ( Tupperware or similar ) or ammunition boxes can also contain items for trading, usually toys or trinkets of little value.
geocaching साझा अनेक पहलुओं with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
बोगी bas प्रोडक्शन्स थी a हिप हॉप समूह कि थी originally रचित of krs-one, d-nice, और dj स्कॉट la चट्टान.
DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on अगस्त 27, 1987, months after the release of BDP 's debut album, Criminal Minded.
the नाम of the समूह, बोगी bas, गर्भाशयी इससे a उपनाम लिये the दक्षिण bronx खण्ड of the bronx, एक of the पाँच boroughs of नई यॉर्क नगर.
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of life in the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the stage for what होता आखिरकार become gangsta rap.
A municipal bond is a bond जारी by a लोकल सरकारी, or their agencies.
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states, cities, counties, redevelopment agencies, special-purpose districts, school districts, public utility districts, publicly owned airports and seaports, and any other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level.
Municipal bonds may be सामान्य दायित्वों of the issuer or secured by specified revenues.
In the United States, interest income received by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the income tax of the state in which they are issued, although municipal bonds issued for certain purposes may not be tax exempt.
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to market with price restrictions until the deal is sold, municipal bonds are free to trade at any समय एकबार वे हैं खरीदा by the investor.
Professional traders regularly trade and retrade the same bonds several times a week.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve Winwood, Spencer Davis और muff winwood, and originally performed by The Spencer Davis Group.
The basic riff of the सोंग was borrowed from the Homer Banks song `` ( Ai n't That ) A Lot of Love '', written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a UK # 2 in the Autumn of 1966 and a US # 7.
The song is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone magazine 's list of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is different इससे कि जारी in the US on the United Artists label, being slower, and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single.
( The US version has अधिक प्रायः been used on reissue CDs, even those coming from Europe. )
The single features the ध्वनि of the Hammond B-3 organ.
The Internet फिल्म डेटाबेस ( IMDb ) is an online database of information related to films, television programs, and video games.
इस शामिल actors, production crew personnel, and fictional characters featured in these three visual entertainment media.
It is one of the most popular online entertainment destinations, with over 100 million unique users each माह और a solid and rapidly growing mobile presence.
IMDb was launched on October 17, 1990, and in 1998 थी acquired by Amazon.com.
As of April 27, 2013, IMDb had 2,503,783 titles ( includes episodes ) and 5,192,493 personalities in its database, as खूब as 43 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता.
The जालस्थल रै an Alexa rank of 48.
Fibre Channel मेजबान Bus Adapter ( 64-bit PCI-X card )
scsi मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( 16-bit isa कार्ड )
In computer hardware, a host controller, host एडाप्टर, or host bus adapter ( HBA ) connects a host system ( the computer ) to other network and storage devices.
The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting scsi, Fibre Channel and eSATA devices.
However, devices for connecting to IDE, ईथरनेट, FireWire, USB and other systems may also be called host adapters.
Recently, the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought about Ethernet HBAs, which are different from Ethernet nics in कि वे शामिल TCP Offload Engines.
There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and Fibre Channel called Converged Network Adapters ( CNAs ).
cashmere स्कार्फ
Modern men 's cashmere sweaters for sale.
Cashmere wool, usually simply known as cashmere, is a fiber obtained from Cashmere goats and other types of goat.
The word cashmere derives from an old स्पेलिंग of Kashmir.
Cashmere is fine in texture, दमदार, light, and soft.
Garments made from it provide excellent insulation.
In the United States, under the U.S. Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, as amended, ( 15 Uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), states that a wool or textile product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool product is the fine ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers produced by a cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the fiber of such wool product does not exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere fibers with average diameters that exceed 30 microns.
The average fiber व्यास may be subject to a coefficient of variation around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the United States, with stores located throughout the पूर्वी seaboard, in the Midwest, on the West Coast and in the Southwest.
The company was संस्थापित in 1975 और is based in Woodbury, New York.
On July 19, 2010, the company announced that it had filed for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
according to Furniture Today the company was number 48 among furniture retailers with US $ 114 million in sales for the year ending August 29, 2009.
it subsequently emerged from Chapter 11 under the control of its major supplier, the Haining Mengnu Group.
Egg roll is a term used for many different foods around the world.
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are found in mainland China, many Chinese-speaking regions of Asia, and Chinese immigrant communities around the world.
अंडा rolls as referred to in China.
In Guangdong and Hong Kong, अंडा roll usually refers to biscuit roll.
इस is a type of biscuit.
The ingredient included egg, flour and sugar.
Egg roll also is a dish in Canton and Hong Kong, this is प्रायः made with vegetable.
भीतर चीन अंडा रोल्स हैं खाया predominantly in the southeast और हैं नहीं as commonly खपत in the उत्तर और पश्चिमी भाग of चीन.
In American Chinese cuisine, an egg roll is a savory dish typically परोसा as an appetizer.
It is usually stuffed with chicken, pork or shrimp, cabbage, carrots, tomatoes, bean sprouts and other vegetables, and then deep fried.
This variety of the egg roll is very common and popular, across even regional varieties of American Chinese food, and is often included as part of a `` combination platter ''.
In Montreal, Canada, open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish.
They can be either कोषेर certified or merely kosher style.
पीड़ा और कष्ट is the legal term for the physical and emotional stress caused from an injury ( see also pain and suffering ).
Some damages that might be under this category would be : aches, temporary and permanent limitations on activity, potential shortening of life, depression or scarring.
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury, it is common for someone to seek money दोनो in मुआवजे लिये वास्तविक money that is lost and for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury.
In a suit, pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's claim, or, alternatively, it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress.
Apart from money damages awarded in trial, money damages are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations, arbitration ( both of which may be court annexed or non litigated claims ) as खूब as in routine insurance settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by lawyers often present demands to insurers to settle for money.
These demand for bodily injury compensation monies often set out damages that are similarly प्रयुक्त in the court litigated pleadings.
Demands are usually written summaries of a claimant 's medical care and the facts which resulted in the injury.
नमूना of a Medallion signature guarantee stampIn
the United States and Canada, a medallion signature guarantee is a special signature guarantee for the transfer of securities.
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the signature is genuine and the financial institution accepts liability for any forgery.
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing unauthorized transfers and possible investor losses.
They also limit the liability of the ट्रांसफ़र एजेंट who accepts the certificates.
अलग संस्थानों have अलग नीतियों as to कया प्रकार of पहचान वे आवश्यकता to provide the गारंटी और whether वे चार्ज a शुल्क लिये ऐसे सेवा ( usually nominal if any ).
Most institutions will not guarantee a signature of someone who रै नहीं already been their customer.
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the sense that a `` signature गारंटी '' is a प्रमाणन by the संस्था कि the signature is authentic, and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily.
कुछ बैंको may no longer provide इस सेवा, however, अनेक स्टिल do as खूब as अन्य वित्तीय संस्थानों ऐसे as a बचत और Loans and Credit Unions.
At their sole discretion, these institutions may still मनाही to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees.
When US citizens are abroad, some financial institutions may accept United States Embassy Seals, in प्लेस of the medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp.
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on Terminal Island, Los Angeles काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, March 1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also known as the Great American streetcar scandal ) refers to allegations and convictions in relation to a program by General Motors ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities.
Between 1936 and 1950, National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM, Firestone Tire, Standard Oil of California, Phillips Petroleum, Mack Trucks, and the Federal Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction systems in 45 cities including Baltimore, Newark, Los Angeles, New York City, Oakland and San Diego and converted them into bus operation.
Several of the कंपनियाँ शामिल were convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to monopolize interstate commerce but were acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies.
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby, who first drew attention to the program in 1946, and then Bradford C. Snell, an anti-trust attorney for the United States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness.
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate destruction of streetcars was part of a larger strategy to push the संयुक्त राज्य into ऑटोमोबाइल dependency.
Others say that independent economic factors brought about changes in the transit system, including the Great Depression, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, labor unrest, मार्केट शक्तियां, rapidly increasing ट्रैफ़िक जमघट, urban sprawl, taxation policies that favored private vehicle ownership, and general enthusiasm for the automobile.
One writer on the subject has suggested that snell और अन्य fell into simplistic conspiracy theory thinking, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly, GM waged a war on electric traction.
It was indeed an all out assault, but by no अर्थात् the सिंगल reason for the failure of rapid transit.
Also, it is just as clear that actions and inactions by government contributed significantly to the विलोपन of electric traction. ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based urban transport systems based on streetcars or trams, including Newark, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Pittsburgh, and Boston ; others are re-introducing them.
The story has been explored several times in print, film and other media, notably in Who Framed Roger Rabbit, Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia.
Corwin House, Salem, Massachusetts, built ca. 1660, First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several building design styles associated with the colonial period of the United States, including First Period English ( late-medieval ), French Colonial, Spanish Colonial, Dutch Colonial and Georgian.
These styles are associated with the houses, churches and government buildings of the period from about 1600 through the 19th century.
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit recorded by American bandleader Glenn Miller.
It topped the charts in 1940 in the U.S. और एक year later was featured in the movie Sun Valley Serenade.
In 1999, National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 ग्लेन मिलर recording on RCA Bluebird on the NPR 100, the list of `` The 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century ''.
NEPTUNE लोगो
The NEPTUNE Canada प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it रै अनुमत people to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world.
Along with its sister project, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a unique approach to समंदर विज्ञान.
traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their research, while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler.
A gramophone record, commonly known as a phonograph record ( in American English ), विनाइल रिकार्ड ( in सन्दर्भ to विनाइल, the material most commonly used after about 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a record '', is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed, modulated spiral groove.
The groove usually starts near the periphery और ends near the center of the disc.
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational speed at which they are played ( `` 33 rpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', etc. ), their time capacity ( `` long playing '' ), their reproductive accuracy, or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '', `` Orthophonic '', `` full-range '', etc. ), and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono ``, `` stereo ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th century, replacing the phonograph cylinder, with which it had co-existed, by the 1920s.
By the लेट 1980s, digital media had gained a larger market share, and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991.
वे continue to be manufactured और बेची in the 21st century.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 million units shipped, the most in any year since 1998 and the format has continued to slowly regain popularity.
They are especially used by DJs and audiophiles for many types of music.
As of 2013, विनाइल records continue to be used for distribution.
Grassland in the Santa रोजा Plateau, California.
Grassland in the Antelope Valley, California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the Flint Hills of northeastern Kansas.
A grassland in the Philippines.
An Inner Mongolian grassland in the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are areas where the वनस्पति is वर्चस्व by grasses ( Poaceae ), however sedge ( Cyperaceae ) and rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found.
Grasslands occur naturally on all continents मगर अंटार्कटिक.
In temperate latitudes, ऐसे as northwestern यूरोपीय and the Great Plains and California in North America, native grasslands are dominated by perennial bunch grass species, whereas in warmer climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation.
Grasslands are मिला in most ecoregions of the Earth.
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ), which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface.
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis, also called henna पेड़ ) or हिना is a flowering plant, the sole species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
The English name `` henna '' comes from the अरबी ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ / pronounced ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The name is also used for dye preparations derived from the plant, and for the art of अस्थाई tattooing based on those dyes.
Henna has been used since antiquity to dye skin, hair, and fingernails, as well as fabrics including Silk, wool and leather.
Additionally, the name is misused for other skin and hair dyes, such as black हिना or न्यूट्रल हिना, which are not derived from the plant.
A thin film is a layer of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness.
Electronic semiconductor devices and optical coatings are the प्रमुख अनुप्रयोग benefiting from thin-film construction.
A familiar application of thin films is the household mirror, which typically has a thin metal coating on the back of a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface.
The process of silvering was once commonly used to produce mirrors.
A very-thin-film coating ( less than a nanometer thick ) is प्रयुक्त to produce two-way mirrors.
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or AR, coatings ) are typically enhanced when the thin-film coating consists of multiple layers having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic structure of प्रत्यावर्ती पतला films of different materials may collectively form a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of quantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is being done with ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for use as computer memory.
It is also being applied to दवाएँ, via thin-film drug delivery.
Thin-films are used to produce thin-film batteries.
Thin films are also used in dye-sensitized solar cells.
Ceramic thin films are in wide use.
The अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची कठोरता and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of thin coating of interest for protection of substrate materials against corrosion, oxidation and wear.
In particular, the use of such coatings on कटिंग tools can extend the life of these items by several orders of magnitude.
Research is being done on a new class of thin-film inorganic oxide materials, called amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides, which could be प्रयुक्त to मेक पारदर्शी transistors कि हैं inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
Gears of War is a military science fiction third-person shooter video game विकसित by Epic Games and published by Microsoft Game Studios.
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America, Australia, and most of Europe and included a `` Limited Collector 's Edition '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed Beauty that विस्तृत much of the खेल 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People Can Fly and released a year later, featuring new content including additional campaign levels, a new multiplayer game mode, and Games for Windows Live functionality.
The game focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate, last-ditch attempt to save the remaining human inhabitants of the fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde.
The player assumes the role of मार्कस Fenix ( but can also play as Dominic Santiago ), a former prisoner and war-hardened soldier.
The game is आधारित on the उपयोग of कवर और रणनीतिक आग लिये the खिलाड़ी to अग्रिम through the scenarios ; a दूसरी खिलाड़ी can खेल cooperatively through the प्रमुख अभियान to assist.
The game also features several online एकाधिक game modes for up to eight players.
Gears of War sold over three million copies in just ten weeks and was the fastest-selling video game of 2005 as well as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during.
It currently stands as the 5th best selling Xbox 360 game of all time.
The game has since sold over five million नक़ल by सितंबर 2008.
The game was well received by critics, who praised its gameplay and detailed visuals, and it won several `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006.
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War franchise, सहित the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and its follow-up, Gears of War 3, which was released on September 20, 2011, after having initially been set to have been released on April 5, 2011, the date upon which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon.
adaptations to books, comics, as well as a feature film are to be expected.
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 novel written by Betty Smith.
The story focuses on an Irish-American family in williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York City.
The novel is set in the first and second decades of the 20th century.
the किताब थी an immense कामयाबी.
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of Heaven, native to China and Taiwan, now considered invasive, and common in the vacant lots of New York City.
संसार map with the intertropical zone highlighted in red.
Tropical climate zones of the Earth where all twelve months have mean temperatures above 18 °C ( 64 °F ).
The tropics is a region of the Earth surrounding the Equator.
It is limited in latitude by the Tropic of Cancer in the northern hemisphere at approximately N and the Tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth.
The tropics are also referred to as the tropical zone and the torrid zone ( see geographical zone ).
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth where the Sun reaches a point directly overhead at least once during the solar year.
The tropics are distinguished इससे the other climatic and biomatic regions of Earth, the middle latitudes and the polar regions on either side of the equatorial zone.
For the inxs song, see What You Need ( song ).
`` What You need '' is an एपीसोड of the अमरीकी टेलीविज़न anthology श्रेणी the गोधूलि मण्डल.
It is based on the short story of the same name by Lewis Padgett ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, is the second-largest theater complex in the United States, second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center ).
Constructed in a span of 19 months in the early 1920s, the theaters were subsequently closed down, but were revived through a grassroots effort.
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era of downtown revitalization in Cleveland, and was called `` one of the top ten successes in Cleveland history. ''
The driver and passenger सामने airbags, after having been deployed, in a British Peugeot 306 car.
An airbag is a vehicle सुरक्षा यंत्र.
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of a flexible fabric envelope or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision.
Its purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide protection to their bodies when they strike interior objects such as the steering व्हील or a खिड़की.
आधुनिक वाहनों may contain अनेक एयरबैग मौड्यूल in विभिन्न पक्ष और frontal स्थितियाँ of the यात्री seating स्थितियाँ, और सेंसर may तैनात एक or अधिक airbags in an प्रभाव मण्डल at परिवर्तनीय दरों आधारित on the प्रकार, कोण और गंभीरता of प्रभाव ; the एयरबैग is designed to तभी inflate in मॉडरेट to कठोर frontal क्रैश.
Airbags are normally designed with the intention of supplementing the सुरक्षा of an occupant जो is correctly restrained with a seatbelt.
Most designs are inflated through pyrotechnic अर्थात् और can तभी be संचालित एकबार.
नए side-impact airbag modules consist of compressed air cylinders that are triggered in the event of a side impact vehicle impact.
The first commercial designs यहूद introduced in passenger automobiles during the 1970s with limited success.
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and early 1990s with a driver airbag, and a front passenger airbag as well on some cars ; and many modern vehicles now include four or more units.
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to report financial information to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the United States.
They are used to report income, calculate taxes to be paid to the federal government of the United States, and disclose other information as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ).
There are over 800 various forms and schedules.
The best-known of these is Form 1040 used by individuals.
In the United States, driver 's licenses are issued by each individual state ( including Washington, D.C. and territories ), rather than the federal government because of the political concept of federalism.
Drivers are normally required to obtain a license from their state of residence and all states recognize each other 's licenses for temporary visitors subject to normal age requirements.
A state may also suspend an individual 's driving privilege within its borders for traffic violations.
Many states share a common system of license classes, with some exceptions, and commercial license classes are standardized by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383.
चीन रै महरूम the सोर्स of many inventions, including the Four Great Inventions : papermaking, the compass, gunpowder, and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ).
The list below contains these and अन्य आविष्कारों.
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, and mathematics applied to horology, metallurgy, astronomy, agriculture, engineering, music theory, craftsmanship, nautics, और warfare.
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 BC ), they had advanced metallurgic technology, including the blast furnace and cupola furnace, while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
A sophisticated economic system in China gave birth to inventions such as paper money during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ).
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the fire lance, land mine, naval mine, hand cannon, exploding cannonballs, multistage rocket, and rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass and ability to steer at high sea with the 1st-century sternpost rudder, premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt.
In water-powered clockworks, the premodern Chinese had used the escapement mechanism since the 8th century and the endless power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th century.
They also made large mechanical puppet theaters driven by waterwheels and carriage wheels and wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats.
The contemporaneous peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of China and were formed around 7000 BC.
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic, prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives, stone hoes and spades, the cultivation of millet, rice and the soybean, the refinement of sericulture, the building of rammed earth structures with lime -plastered house floors, the creation of the potter 's wheel, the creation of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs, the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers, and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination.
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c. 2000 BC ) period, the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield फसलों, पूरा प्रमाण of Longshan cultivation of dry-land cereal crops which gave high yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated, '' suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
With later inventions such as the multiple-tube seed drill और भारी moldboard iron plow, China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger population.
For the purposes of this list, inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China, and as such does not include foreign technologies which the Chinese acquired through contact, such as the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope from Early modern Europe.
It also does not include technologies विकसित elsewhere and later invented separately by the Chinese, such as the odometer and chain pump.
वैज्ञानिक, mathematic or प्राकृतिक discoveries, परिवर्तन in नाबालिग अवधारणाओं of डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल और कलाकारी नवप्रवर्तनों can नहीं be regarded as आविष्कारों और do नहीं appear on the सूची.
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita, adjusted for inflation and purchasing power parity ( log scale ) from 1860 to 2011, with population ( disk area ) for the US ( yellow ), UK ( orange ), Japan ( red ), China ( red ), and India ( blue ).
Globalization ( or globalisation—see spelling differences ) is the process of international integration arising from the interchange of world views, products, ideas, and other aspects of culture.
Put in simple terms, globalization refers to processes that promote world-wide exchanges of national and cultural resources.
Advances in transportation and दूरसंचार infrastructure, including the rise of the Internet, are major factors in globalization, generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities.
हालांकि अनेक विद्वानों प्लेस the origins of वैश्वीकरण in आधुनिक टाइम्स, अन्य ट्रेस इसके इतिहास long पहले the यूरोपीय आयु of डिस्कवरी and voyages to the New World.
कुछ भी ट्रेस the origins to the तीसरा मिलेनियम bce.
Since the beginning of the 20th century, the pace of वैश्वीकरण रै intensified at a rapid rate, especially during the Post Cold War era.
The term globalization has been in increasing use since the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade and transactions, capital and निवेश आंदोलनों, माइग्रेशन and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental challenges such as climate change, cross-boundary water and air pollution, and over-fishing of the ocean are linked with globalization.
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work organization, economics, socio-cultural संसाधन, और the प्राकृतिक environment.
The Replacements is a 2000 American sports comedy film directed by Howard Deutch.
it सितारों कियानू रीव्स, जीन hackman, और ब्रुक langton.
An अमरीकी Airlines aircraft takes off from Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.
This airport is the एयरलाइन 's largest hub.
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic destinations and 78 international destinations in 48 countries.
( as of December 2012 )
The list includes the city, country, the codes of the International Air Transport Association ( IATA airport code ) and the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO airport code ), and the airport 's नाम, साथ the airline 's hubs, focus cities and seasonal destinations marked.
The list भी contains destinations no longer served by the airline, which are marked as terminated destinations.
it करता नहीं शामिल गंतव्यों परोसा for American Airlines by its regional affiliates American Eagle Airlines, Executive Airlines, and AmericanConnection.
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song, the best-known version of which was sung by Harry Belafonte and an alternate version interspersed with another Jamaican folksong, Hill and Gully Rider, by Dame Shirley Bassey.
Despite the song 's mento influences, `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is widely known as an example of calypso music.
It is a work song, from the point of view of dock मजदूर working the night shift loading bananas onto ships.
Daylight has आइये, the शिफ़्ट is over and they want their work to be counted up so that they can go home.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, सहित 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
भीतर सप्ताह, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was रोका in इसके आक्रमण of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the समाप्त of the युद्ध, चार प्रमुख imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
the successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Nurse Jackie is an American series that premiered on June 8, 2009, on Showtime, Movie Central and The Movie Network.
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie Peyton, an emergency विभाग नर्स at All Saints ' Hospital in New York City.
For Jackie, `` Every day is a high wire act of juggling patients, doctors, fellow नर्स और उसके own indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often referred to simply as The Kardashians ) is an American reality television series that premiered on October 14, 2007, on E !.
It follows the lives of the Kardashian/Jenner family, including sisters कोर्टनी, Kim, and Khloé Kardashian.
The series ' success has led to the spin-offs कोर्टनी and Kim Take New York, Khloé & Lamar, Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami, and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign state forming part of South Asia, Central Asia, and to some extent Western Asia.
It has a population of around 30 million inhabiting an area of approximately, making it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest nation in the world.
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and the east, Iran in the west, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the उत्तर, और चीन in the far northeast.
Afghanistan रै महरूम an ancient focal point of the Silk Road and human migration.
archaeologists have मिला evidence of human habitation from as far back as the Middle Paleolithic.
Urban civilization may have begun in the क्षेत्रफल as early as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle East culture with Central Asia and the Indian subcontinent, the land has been home to various peoples through the ages and witnessed many military अभियान, notably by सिकंदर the ग्रेट, Genghis Khan, and in modern era Western forces.
The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians, Kushans, Hephthalites, Saffarids, Ghaznavids, Ghorids, Khiljis, Timurids, Mughals, Durranis, and others have risen to form major empires.
The political history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in 1709, when the Hotaki dynasty was established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad Shah Durrani 's rise to power in 1747.
In the late 19th century, Afghanistan became a buffer state in the `` Great Game `` between the British and Russian empires.
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War, King Amanullah began a European style modernization of the country but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives.
During the Cold War, after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring India in 1947, the United States and the Soviet Union began spreading प्रभाव in अफगानिस्तान, जिससे led to a bloody war between the US-backed mujahideen forces and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives.
This was followed by the 1990s civil war, the rise and fall of the extremist Taliban government and the 2001–present war.
In December 2001, the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain security in Afghanistan and assist the Karzai administration.
Three decades of war made Afghanistan one of the world 's सबसे dangerous countries, including the largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers.
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan, terrorist groups such as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi Islami are actively involved in a nationwide Taliban -led insurgency, which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks.
according to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the insurgents यहूद जिम्मेदार लिये 80 % of civilian हताहत in 2011 और 2012.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the एक्सटेंशन of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat कि बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the किनारा राज्य and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
the पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river नेवी, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union सेना in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy इससे all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Cost of goods sold ( COGS ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a business has sold during a particular period.
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of several formulas, including specific identification, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or average cost.
Costs include all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Costs of goods made by the business include material, labor, and allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as costs of inventory until the inventory is बेची or लिखा bas in value.
Freak Lunchbox candy store in Halifax, Nova Scotia
A confectionery store ( more commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom, a candy store in the North America, or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery and is usually targeted to children.
Most confectionery stores are filled with an assortment of sweets far larger than a grocer or convenience store could accommodate.
They often offer a selection of old fashioned treats, and sweets from different देशों.
Very often unchanged in layout since their inception, confectioneries are ज्ञात for their warming and nostalgic feel.
The village of Pateley Bridge claims to have the oldest confectionery store in England.
The oldest मीठी shop in England, in the village of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States.
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla और humma, meaning `` red people '', and it is known informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on November 16, 1907, Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the संघ.
Its residents are ज्ञात as Oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and agriculture, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, दूरसंचार, and biotechnology.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, ranking among the top states in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, साथ nearly दो तिहाई of oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and eastern forests, most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains and the U.S. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, Scottish, Irish and Native अमरीकी ancestry, अधिक than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma, second only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle drives, a destination for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
stacked और खड़ा car टायर
a टायर ( or टायर ) is a ring-shaped covering कि fits around a व्हील 's रिम to protect it और enable बेहतर गाडी प्रदर्शन.
Most tires, such as those for automobiles and bicycles, provide traction between the vehicle and the road while providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock.
The materials of modern pneumatic tires are synthetic rubber, natural rubber, कपड़ा और तार, साथ with carbon black and other chemical compounds.
They consist of a tread और a देह.
The tread provides traction जबकि the body provides containment for a quantity of compressed air.
Before rubber was developed, the पहला versions of tires were simply bands of metal that fitted around wooden wheels to prevent wear and tear.
Early rubber tires were solid ( not pneumatic ).
Today, the बहुमत of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of vehicles, including cars, bicycles, motorcycles, trucks, earthmovers, and aircraft.
Metal tires are still used on locomotives and railcars, and solid रबर ( or other polymer ) tires are still used in various non-automotive applications, such as some casters, carts, lawnmowers, and wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) was an American doctor who played a leading role in American Patriot organizations in Boston in early days of the American Revolution, eventually serving as president of the revolutionary मैसाचुसेट्स Provincial Congress.
Warren enlisted पॉल आदर and William Dawes on April 18, 1775, to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the British garrison in Boston was setting out to raid the town of Concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams.
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of Lexington and Concord, which are commonly considered to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War.
Warren had been commissioned a Major General in the colony 's मिलिशिया shortly before the June 17, 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill.
Rather than exercising his rank, Warren served in the battle as a private soldier, and was killed in combat when British troops stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's Hill.
His death, immortalized in John Trumbull 's painting, the मौत of सामान्य वारेन at the Battle of Bunker 's Hill, June 17, 1775, galvanized the rebel forces, and he has been memorialized in many place names in the United States.
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular chains of the organic semiconductor Quinacridone on Graphite.
An organic semiconductor is an organic material with semiconductor properties, that is, with an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals.
Single molecules, short chain ( oligomers ) और organic polymers can be semiconductive.
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene, anthracene, और rubrene.
Polymeric organic semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ), poly ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
There are दो major overlapping classes of organic semiconductors.
These are organic charge-transfer complexes and various linear-backbone conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene.
Linear backbone organic semiconductors include polyacetylene itself and its derivatives polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
At least locally, charge-transfer complexes often exhibit similar conduction mechanisms to अकार्बनिक semiconductors.
Such mechanisms उठता इससे the presence of hole and electron conduction layers separated by a band gap.
While such classic mechanisms are important locally, as with inorganic amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, localized states, mobility gaps, and phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction, particularly in polyacetylenes.
Like inorganic semiconductors, organic semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) and are also known as organic metals.
ठेठ current carriers in organic semiconductors are holes and electrons in π-bonds.
Almost all सशुल्क solids are insulators.
But when their constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems, electrons can move via π-electron cloud overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling and related mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt crystals are examples of this type of organic सेमीकंडक्टर.
Mainly due to low mobility, even unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes.
Such unpaired electrons can function as current वाहक.
इस प्रकार of सेमीकंडक्टर is भी प्राप्त by pairing an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता अणु साथ an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor अणु.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be different phenomena in some research publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical पेशेवर, which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition contested by the वरिष्ठ महिलाओं 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded प्रत्येक four years since the inaugural tournament in 1991.
Japan won the 2011 tournament in a penalty shootout.
The वर्तमान स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves 16 टीमों स्पर्धा for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about three weeks ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is पहचाना as the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अंतरराष्ट्रीय competition in women 's football and is played amongst women 's national football teams of the member states of FIFA, the sport 's global governing body.
The first Women 's World Cup tournament, named the Women 's World Championship, was held in 1991, sixty-one years after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930.
The six World Cup tournaments have been won by four अलग national teams.
The next संसार कप will be hosted by Canada in 2015.
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by Walter Dean Myers, first published in the United States by Harper & Row on June 20, 1988.
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by Joseph Athias, now at Beth hatefutsoth, Israel
'Son of man ' is the translation of various Hebrew and Greek phrases used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament.
It has diverse meanings, ranging from a normal human being to a prophesied eternal, दैवी शासक.
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears one hundred and seven times in the Hebrew Bible.
This is the most common Hebrew construction for the singular लकिन is प्रयुक्त ज़्यादातर in ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere.
In thirty two cases the phrase appears in intermediate plural form `` sons of men '', i.e. human beings.
As generally interpreted by Jews, it denotes humankind generally.
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament, `` the बेटे of man '' is invariably used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article.
The use of the definite article in `` the son of man '' in the Christian gospels is novel, and before its use there, no records of its use in any of the surviving यूनानी दस्तावेज़ of antiquity exist.
Geza Vermes has stated that `` the Son of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages.
In Christian usage, unlike the Son of God title, which has महरूम an अनिवार्य तत्व of Christian creeds since the Apostolic age, the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity.
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the New Testament has remained challenging and after 150 सालो of बहस no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars.
Master of foxhounds leads the field from Powderham किला in Devon, England, with the hounds in front.
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking, chase, and sometimes killing of a fox, traditionally a red fox, by trained foxhounds or other scent hounds, and a group of unarmed followers led by a master of foxhounds, who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th century, but is practised all over the world, including in Australia, Canada, France, Ireland, Italy and the United States.
In Australia, the term also refers to the शिकार of foxes साथ firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting.
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g., deer hunting with bow and arrow ) ; in Britain and Ireland, `` hunting '' without qualification implies fox hunting ( or other forms of hunting with hounds- beagling, stag hunting, mink hunting, drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here.
the खेल is विवादास्पद, विशेषकर in the uk, जहाँ it थी बैन in स्कॉटलैंड in 2002, और in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स in नवम्बर 2004 ( विधि enforced इससे फ़रवरी 2005 ), हालांकि शूटिंग foxes as vermin remained विधिक.
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important part of rural culture and useful for reasons of conservation and pest control, while opponents argue that it is बेदर्द और अनावश्यक.
Tobacco advertising is the advertising of tobacco products or use ( typically cigarette smoking ) by the tobacco industry through a variety of media including sponsorship, particularly of sporting events.
It is now one of the most highly regulated forms of विपणन.
Some or all forms of tobacco advertising हैं banned in many countries.
बल्ली technologies, inc. is a निर्माता of स्लॉट मशीने और अन्य गेमिंग प्रौद्योगिकी आधारित in लास वेगास, नेवाडा.
The company was founded in 1968 as उन्नत Patent Technology.
It eventually changed its name to Alliance Gaming and acquired, in 1996, Bally Gaming International, a former division of Bally Manufacturing.
In 2006, the entire company adopted the Bally name, a trademark that originated in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation.
Gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; here, Dante is lost in Canto 1 of the Inferno.
Inferno ( Italian for `` नरक `` ) is the first part of Dante Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy.
It is followed by Purgatorio and Paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through Hell, हिदायत by the Roman poet Virgil.
In the कविता, नरक is चित्रित as nine circles of suffering located within the Earth.
Allegorically, the Divine Comedy represents the journey of the soul towards God, with the Inferno describing the मान्यता and rejection of sin.
Smirnoff is a brand of vodka owned and produced by the British company Diageo.
The Smirnoff brand began with a vodka डिस्टिलरी संस्थापित in Moscow by Pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
It is now distributed in 130 countries.
It is produced in several countries including India, Ireland, इटली, the संयुक्त Kingdom and the United States.
Smirnoff उत्पाद शामिल vodka, flavoured vodka, and malt beverages.
In March 2006, Diageo North अमेरिका claimed that Smirnoff vodka was the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world.
Big Brown ( foaled April 10, 2005 in Kentucky ) is a retired champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes.
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's Monticule Farms in Lexington, Kentucky, he won his first five रेस starts.
He was sired by Grade III winner Boundary, a son of North American Champion sire Danzig, a son of Northern Dancer.
Big Brown 's dam was Mien, also a granddaughter of Northern Dancer through her sire, Nureyev.
The Serenity Prayer is the common name for an originally untitled prayer by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been adopted by Alcoholics Anonymous and other twelve-step programs.
The best-known form is : God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
The हिम्मत to बदलें the बाते i can,
And wisdom to know the difference.
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial Rights, or the Declaration of Rights ), was a statement adopted by the First Continental Congress on October 14, 1774, in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament.
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable Acts, listed a औपनिवेशिक विधेयक of rights, and provided a detailed list of grievances.
It was similar to the घोषणा of Rights and Grievances, passed by the Stamp Act Congress a decade earlier.
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans : to enter into a boycott of British trade ( the Continental Association ) until their grievances were redressed, to publish addresses to the people of Great Britain and British America, and to send a petition to the King.
Pulse pressure is the pressure that is felt when feeling the pulse.
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), the pressure difference between the systolic and diastolic pressures is the pressure change to create the पल्स, जिससे is the पल्स दबाव.
If resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of पारा ( mmhg ), पल्स दबाव is 40.
the पहाड़ियाँ is a वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी जिससे originally aired on एमटीवी इससे may 31, 2006 जबतक जुलाई 13, 2010.
The show उपयोग a वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न स्वरूप, following the personal lives of several young adults living in Los Angeles, California, but tends towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres such as soap operas.
the श्रेणी originally followed the personal life of former Laguna Beach star Lauren Conrad and her friends ' new lives in Los Angeles.
After five seasons, Conrad left the series and was replaced by another पूर्व लगुना Beach star, Kristin Cavallari, beginning in the second half of the fifth season.
The series concluded at the end of the sixth season.
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on their list of `` The 100 Best Shows of the Last 25 सालो, '' stating कि the श्रेणी was a `` New Classic. ''
AOL TV called it TV 's Biggest Guilty ख़ुशी.
The series premiered in syndication in the fall of 2009 alongside लगुना बीच : The Real Orange County.
In poker, bad beat is a subjective term for a hand in which a player with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses.
It most often occurs where one player bets the clearly stronger hand and their प्रतिद्वन्दी makes a poor call that eventually `` hits '' and wins.
There is no consensus among poker players as to what exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will disagree about whether a particular hand was a bad beat.
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes.
It was one of the earliest fish to be domesticated, और is एक of the most commonly kept aquarium fish.
A relatively small member of the carp family ( which also includes the koi carp and the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia.
It was first domesticated in China more than a thousand years ago, and several distinct breeds have since been developed.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size, body shape, fin configuration and coloration ( various combinations of white, yellow, orange, red, brown, and black are known ).
Uncooked rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a जर्मनी मांस roulade प्रायः consisting of बेकन, प्याज, सरसों और अचार लपेटा in thinly sliced बीफ जिससे is तब पकाया.
In some countries, the roulade is also known as `` beef olive ''.
Beef or veal is used as meat though some food विद्वानों tend to believe that the original version was probably venison or pork, and pork is still popular in some areas.
The beef rouladen as we know them today have become popular over the last सदी.
The cut is usually topside beef or silverside चूंकि इस is the cheaper cut.
The more expensive version would be the round steak, also known as rump steak.
The meat is cut into large, thin slices.
The भरना is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork belly, chopped onions and chopped pickles ( gurken ) which is at times varied by adding minced meat, sausage meat, pine nuts and mustard.
The mixture varies from region to region.
Rouladen are traditionally served लिये dinner.
Red wine is often served with इस डिश.
Typical eukaryotic कोशिका.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ, जिससे ब्रेक विशाल molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
श्वसन is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी redox reaction.
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the देह, most of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell.
इस अंतर is because it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a दहन reaction, no single reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in श्वसन शामिल sugar, amino acids and fatty acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
Countries by 2011 GDP ( nominal ) according to the CIA संसार factbook.
This article includes a list of countries in the world sorted by their gross domestic product ( GDP ), the market value of all final goods and services from a nation in a दिए साल.
The जीडीपी dollar estimates presented here are calculated at market or government official exchange rates.
Several economies जिससे are not considered to be countries ( world, the EU, and some dependent territories ) are included in the lists because they appear in the sources.
These economies are not क्रमित in the charts here, but are listed where applicable.
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different countries, and the results can vary greatly from one year to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency.
Such fluctuations may बदलें a देश 's रैंकिंग इससे एक साल to the अगला, भी हालांकि वे प्रायः मेक छोटी or no अंतर to the मानक of जीना of इसके जनसांख्यिकी.
Therefore these आंकड़े should be used with caution.
Some countries/regions may have नागरिकों जिससे are on average wealthy.
These countries/regions could appear in this list as having a small GDP.
This would be because the country/region listed has a small population, and therefore small total economy ; the GDP is calculated as the population times the wealth per capita.
Comparisons of नेशनल माल are also frequently made on the basis of purchasing power parity ( PPP ), to adjust for differences in the cost of living in different countries.
( See List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem, but has its own drawbacks ; it does not reflect the value of economic output in international trade, and it also requires more estimation than nominal GDP.
On the whole, PPP प्रति capita figures are more narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita figures.
The first list includes data compiled by the United Nations Statistics Division for 2011.
The second list largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the International Monetary Fund for 2012.
The तीसरा list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates, and the fourth list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook.
Lapping is a machining process, in which two surfaces are rubbed together with an abrasive between them, by hand movement or by way of a machine.
This can take दो forms.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ), typically involves rubbing a भंगुर सामग्री ऐसे as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( also known as the `` lap '' or grinding tool ) with an abrasive such as aluminum oxide, jeweller 's rouge, optician 's rouge, emery, silicon carbide, diamond, etc., in between them.
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the abrasive rolls about between the two surfaces and removes material from both.
The other form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch or a ceramic for the lap, जिससे is `` चार्ज '' with the abrasive.
The lap is then used to cut a harder material—the workpiece.
The abrasive embeds within the softer material which holds it and permits it to score across and cut the harder material.
Taken to a finer limit, this will produce a polished surface such as with a polishing cloth on an automobile, or a polishing cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel.
Taken to the ultimate limit, with the aid of accurate interferometry and specialized polishing machines or skilled hand polishing, lensmakers can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers.
This is एक twentieth of the wavelength of light from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source.
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing उन्हें together under the right conditions.
( This is not the वही as the wringing effect of Johansson blocks, although it is similar ).
The term `` America 's Team '' is a popular nickname in the United States that refers to the Dallas Cowboys in the National फ़ुटबॉल League.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film, जहाँ the narrator opens साथ the following परिचय : The term is recognized and often used by media outlets, including ESPN, Yahoo !, HBO Sports, and Sports Illustrated.
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un vampire ) is a 2011 Canadian television series, based on the television film of the same name.
In Canada, the series premiered in French on Télétoon on February 28, 2011, in English on Teletoon on March 14, 2011, and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27, 2011.
The दिखाएँ was created by Fresh TV, creators of 6teen and Total Drama.
The show follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ), who, in the television film, learns that his दाई सारा ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire.
In the film, he learns he is able to have visions and his बेहतरीन dost बेनी Weir ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures, with occasional help from fellow vampires Rory ( Cameron Kennedy ) and Erica ( Kate Todd ), while dealing साथ the परेशानियों of regular high school life.
A second season was confirmed to प्रारंभ production in September 2011 and it first premiered on Disney Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon started featuring season 2 sneak-peak episodes on अक्तूबर 28, 2012 and premiered it on January 10, 2013
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950, driven by Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, often simply referred to as a pickup, is a light motor vehicle with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built, एकीकृत bed, as well as for coupé utility vehicles, often based on a personal car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup, such as ute in Australia and New Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe, where vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive, diplomatic, regulatory, and judicial officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
the अध्यक्ष is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal सरकारी have grown substantially and each modern president, despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is अक्सर वर्णित as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the United States.
The Twenty-second amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president, or acting president, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In सब, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year शर्तें.
On January 20, 2009, बराक ओबामा became the 44th and current president.
on नवम्बर 6, 2012, he थी re-elected और is अनुसूचित to serve जबतक जनवरी 20, 2017.
Bottled mineral जल
Bottled water is पीने जल ( e.g., खूब जल, आसुत जल, खनिज जल, or वसन्त जल ) packaged in प्लास्टिक or कांच जल बोतलों.
Bottled water may be carbonated or नहीं.
Sizes range from small single serving bottles to large carboys for water coolers.
Map of the major rivers, झीलों, and reservoirs in India
Map showing rivers and flood prone areas in India
Rivers of India play an important role in the lives of the Indian people.
The river systems provide irrigation, potable water, cheap transportation, electricity, and the livelihoods लिये a विशाल क्रमांक of people all over the country and to rural areas.
This easily explains why nearly सब the प्रमुख cities of India are located by the banks of rivers.
The नदियाँ भी have an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in हिन्दू mythology और हैं माना पावन by सब हिन्दुओं in the देश.
Seven major rivers along with their numerous tributaries make up the river system of India.
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of बंगाल ; however, some of the rivers whose courses take them through the western part of the country and towards the east of the state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea.
Parts of Ladakh, northern parts of the Aravlli range and the arid parts of the थार Desert have inland drainage.
dr.francis Buchanan surveyed the courses of the rivers of India along with their tributaries and branches in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it.
The shifting of the courses and bed over the centuries is very remarkable.
Many of the channels mentioned in that survey have अभी become मुर्दे, dried or even extinct.
सब major rivers of India originate from one of the three main watersheds :
The हिमालय and the Karakoram ranges
Vindhya and Satpura ranges and Chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or Western Ghats in western India
The Bretton Woods प्रणाली of मौद्रिक प्रबन्धन स्थापित the नियम लिये वाणिज्यिक और वित्तीय संबंध among the संसार 's प्रमुख औद्योगिक राज्य in the mid-20th सदी.
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a fully negotiated monetary order intended to govern monetary relations among स्वतंत्र nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was still raging, 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations gathered at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, United States, for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference.
The delegates deliberated during 1–22 July 1944, and signed the Agreement on its final day.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, and procedures to regulate the international monetary system, the planners at Bretton Woods established the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD ), which today is part of the World Bank Group.
These organizations became operational in 1945 after a sufficient number of countries had ratified the अनुबंध.
The chief features of the Bretton Woods system were an obligation for each country to adopt a monetary policy that maintained the exchange rate by tying its currency to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the US $ to gold.
This brought the bretton Woods system to an end and saw the dollar become fiat currency.
This action, referred to as the Nixon shock, created the situation in which the United States dollar became a reserve currency used by many states.
At the same time, अनेक fixed currencies ( such as GBP, for example ), also became free floating.
Ducati Motor पकड़कर S.p.A. is an Italian company that designs and manufactures motorcycles.
Headquartered in Bologna, Italy, Ducati is owned by Audi through इसके Italian subsidiary Lamborghini.
A credit score is a numerical expression based on a statistical विश्लेषण of a व्यक्ति 's credit files, to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
A credit score is primarily based on credit report information typically sourced इससे क्रेडिट bureaus.
Lenders, such as banks and credit card companies, use credit scores to evaluate the potential risk posed by lending money to consumers and to mitigate losses due to bad debt.
Lenders use credit scores to determine who qualifies for a loan, at what interest rate, and what credit limits.
lenders भी उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to determine जिससे ग्राहक हैं संभावित to लाओ in the सबसे आय.
The use of क्रेडिट or identity scoring prior to authorizing access or granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system.
Credit scoring is not limited to banks.
Other organizations, such as mobile phone companies, insurance companies, landlords, and government departments employ the same techniques.
Credit scoring also has a lot of overlap with data mining, which uses many similar techniques.
These techniques combine thousands of factors but they are more or less समान or the same.
the सात si आधार इकाई और the interdependency of उनके परिभाषाएं : लिये उदाहरण, to निकालें the परिभाषा of the मीटर इससे the गति of लाइट, the परिभाषा of the दूसरी जरूर be ज्ञात जबकि the ampere और candela हैं दोनो निर्भर on the परिभाषा of उर्जा जिससे in फेरे is पारिभाषित in शर्तें of लंबाई, mass and time.
The International System of Units ( SI ) defines seven units of measure as a basic set from which all other SI units are derived.
These SI base units and their शारीरिक quantities are:
metre for लंबाई ( us English : meter )
kilogram for mass ( note : not the ग्राम )
दूसरी for time
ampere for electric current
kelvin लिये temperature
candela लिये luminous intensity
mole लिये the amount of substance.
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually independent dimensions as required by dimensional analysis commonly employed in विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी.
However, in a दिए realization of ये इकाई वे may खूब be interdependent, i.e. पारिभाषित in शर्तें of प्रत्येक अन्य.
The names of SI units are written in lowercase characters ( the 'degree Celsius ' meets this नियम, as 'degree ' is the unit, and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ).
the प्रतीकों of इकाई हैं लिखा in लोअरकेस ( e.g. मीटर रै the प्रतीक m ), मगर कि प्रतीकों लिये इकाई नामित बाद व्यक्तियों हैं लिखा साथ an आरंभिक पूंजी अक्षर ( e.g., the हर्ट्ज़ रै the uppercase symbol Hz ).
Many other इकाई, such as the litre ( US English : liter ), are formally not part of the SI, but are accepted for use with SI.
Monument canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The Monument ) is a part of the नेशनल Park Service near the city of Grand Junction, Colorado.
Spectacular canyons cut deep into sandstone and even granite–gneiss–schist चट्टान formations, in some areas.
This is an area of desert land high on the Colorado Plateau, साथ पिनियन और juniper forests on the plateau.
The park hosts a wide range of wildlife, including red-tailed hawks and golden eagles, ravens, jays, मरुस्थल bighorn sheep, and coyotes.
Activities include hiking, horseback riding, road bicycling, and scenic drives ; a visitor center on the west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop.
There are magnificent views from trails and the Rim Rock Drive, which winds along the plateau.
Nearby are the Book cliffs, और the largest flat-topped mountain in the world, the Grand Mesa.
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon, which runs the width of the park, and includes rock formations such as Independence Monument, the Kissing Couple, and Coke Ovens.
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square miles ), much of which has been recommended to Congress for designation as wilderness.
left to right : Utility Uniform, ब्लू पोशाक वर्दी, Service Uniform, and Evening Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of the United States Marine Corps serve to distinguish marines from members of other services.
Among current uniforms in the United States Armed Forces, the marines ' uniforms have been in service the longest.
The Marine Dress Blue uniform has, साथ few परिवर्तन, महरूम worn in essentially its current form since the 19th century.
North American telephone area codes 419 और 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. state of Ohio.
The largest city served by these area कोड is टोलेडो ( और इसके उपनगरों of हॉलैंड, maumee, northwood, ऑरेगॉन, ओटावा पहाड़ियाँ, perrysburg, rossford, sylvania, swanton, waterville, और whitehouse ).
अन्य शहरों परोसा by ये क्षेत्रफल कोड शामिल एडीए, ashland, bellevue, bluffton, बोलिंग ग्रीन, ब्रायन, bucyrus, celina, क्लाइड, crestline, defiance, delphos, एडिसन, erastus, findlay, fostoria, fremont, galion, kenton, लीमा, मैन्सफील्ड, माउंट gilead, नेपोलियन, नॉरवॉक, ओक हार्बर, बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन, sandusky, शेल्बी, st. marys, tiffin, अपर sandusky, वैन wert, wapakoneta, wauseon, willard.
Other areas served include the Lake Erie Islands north of Port Clinton and west of Sandusky.
The main area code, 419, was created as one of the original area codes in October 1947 ; the ओवरले क्षेत्रफल कोड 567 was created on January 1, 2002.
Despite the presence of Toledo, the राज्य 's fourth-largest city, 419 was the last of Ohio 's original four area codes to have been split or overlaid.
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born March 9, 1936 ) is an American country music singer and musician.
Although he started out singing straight-up country and western material in the 1970s, he moved towards a more pop -friendly sound in the 1980s, bringing him further success on not just the country charts, but the pop charts as well.
Among his biggest hits are `` Room Full of Roses, '' `` Do n't the Girls All Get Prettier at Closing Time, '' and the remake of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me ``.
He is भी the cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl McVoy, Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart.
According to the Federal Aviation Administration, Gilley is a licensed pilot, who holds an instrument rating with commercial pilot privileges for multi-engine airplanes, as well as private pilot privileges for single engine aircraft.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as सितंबर 11, सितंबर 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide हमले.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, were crashed into the North and South towers, respectively, of the World Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the WTC complex, as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States Capitol in वॉशिंगटन, D.C., but crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In कुल, लगभग 3,000 लोगों died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
Suspicion quickly fell on al-qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama बिन लादेन, initially denied any involvement, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the उपस्थिति of u.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, जिससे था harbored al-Qaeda.
Many देशों strengthened उनके anti-terrorism विधान और विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन शक्तियां.
having evaded कैप्चर लिये सालो, बिन लादेन थी स्तिथ और मारे by u.S. शक्तियां in may 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets.
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was completed in May 2002, and the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, सहित the नेशनल सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क, the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल, और the उड़ान 93 नेशनल मेमोरियल in पेन्सिलवेनिया.
After a lengthy विलंब, the One World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film written and directed by Andrew Stanton, released by Walt Disney Pictures, and the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios.
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who, along with a regal tang named Dory ( Ellen DeGeneres ), searches for his abducted son Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour.
Along the way, Marlin learns to take risks and let nemo लो care of himself.
it is पिक्चर्स 's पहला फिल्मी to be released in cinemas in the northern hemisphere summer.
The film was re-released for the first time in 3D on September 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
A sequel, Finding Dory, is फिलहाल in development, set to be released on November 25, 2015.
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, and was nominated in three more categories including Best Original Screenplay.
It was the second highest-grossing film of 2003, earning a total of $ 921 लाख विश्वव्यापी.
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time, with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006, and was the highest-grossing G-rated film of सब समय पहले पिक्चर्स 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it.
It is भी the 23rd highest-grossing film of all time, as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film.
In 2008, the American Film Institute named it the दसवाँ greatest animated film ever made during their Top 10.
The sixth season of America 's Best Dance Crew, also known as America 's Best Dance Crew : Season of the Superstars, premiered on April 7, 2011 and concluded on जून 5, 2011.
Auditions were held in four cities from January 21 through February 5 : Chicago, Houston, New York, and Los Angeles.
This season takes a different route इससे past seasons.
The crews must perform to the music of one specific artist each week, including Rihanna, लील वेन, और अन्य popular stars.
This season also features special guest appearances by various music celebrities सहित Justin Bieber, The Black Eyed Peas, Katy Perry, Kesha, Nicki Minaj, and Kanye West.
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a former member of Quest Crew, the winner of the third ऋतु of अमेरिका 's Best Dance Crew, joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge.
in the season finale, I aM mE was declared the winner of Season 6 and received the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize.
In the United States, Social Security refers to the Old-Age, Survivors, and विकलांगता Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program.
The original Social Security Act ( 1935 ) and the current version of the Act, as amended, encompass अनेक सोशल welfare और सोशल insurance programs.
Social Security is primarily funded through dedicated payroll taxes called Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax ( FICA ).
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, or the Federal Supplementary Medical बीमे विश्वास Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund.
Upward redistribution of income is responsible for about 43 % of the प्रक्षिप्त Social Security shortfall over the next 75 years.
According to economist Martin Feldstein, the combined spending for all social insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of सरकारी expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product.
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older out of poverty.
The Social Security Administration is headquartered in Woodlawn, Maryland, just west of Baltimore.
The alcohol by volume shown on a bottle of absinthe.
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as abv, abv, or alc/vol ) is a मानक माप of कैसा much दारू ( इथेनॉल ) is contained in an alcoholic पेय ( expressed as a प्रतिशत of कुल आवाज़ ).
The ABV standard is used विश्वव्यापी.
In some countries, alcohol by volume is referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the French chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ).
Laurel Hollow is a village in the Town of Oyster Bay in Nassau County, New York in the United States.
The population was 1,952 at the 2010 census.
Charles John Huffam डिकेंस ( ; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870 ) was an English writer and social critic.
He created some of the world 's most यादगार fictional characters and is generally regarded as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period.
During his life, his works enjoyed unprecedented कीर्ति, and by the twentieth century his literary genius was broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars.
His novels and short stories continue to be widely popular.
Born in Portsmouth, England, Dickens left school to work in a factory after his father was thrown into debtors ' prison.
Although he था छोटी formal education, his early impoverishment drove him to succeed.
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years, wrote 15 novels, 5 novellas and hundreds of short stories and non-fiction articles, lectured and performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights, education, and other social reforms.
डिकेंस sprang to fame with the 1836 serial publication of The Pickwick Papers.
Within a few years he had become an international साहित्यिक celebrity, famous for his humour, satire, and keen observation of character and society.
His novels, most published in monthly or weekly instalments, pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction, which became the dominant Victorian mode for novel publication.
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's reaction, and he often modified his plot and character development based on such feedback.
For example, when his wife 's chiropodist expressed तकलीफ at the रास्ता मिस Mowcher in David Copperfield seemed to reflect her disabilities, Dickens went on to improve the character with positive lineaments.
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; His caricature of Leigh Hunt in the figure of Mr Skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends, as they read episodes.
In the same novel, both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the beadle are drawn from real life – Boythorne from Walter Savage Landor and Mooney from 'Looney ', a beadle at Salisbury Square.
His plots यहूद carefully constructed, and Dickens often wove in elements from topical events into his narratives.
masses of the अनपढ़ ग़रीब chipped in ha'pennies to have प्रत्येक नई मासिक एपीसोड पढ़ा to उन्हें, खोलने up और प्रेरणादायी a नई क्लास of readers.
Dickens was regarded as the साहित्यिक colossus of his age.
His 1843 novella, A Christmas Carol, is one of the most influential works ever written, and it remains popular and continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre.
His creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell —for its realism, comedy, prose style, unique characterisations, and social criticism.
On the other hand Oscar Wilde, Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a कमी of मनोवैज्ञानिक depth, loose writing, and a vein of saccharine sentimentalism.
Martin Luther King and other civil rights leaders in सामने of the प्रतिमा of Abraham Lincoln, August 28, 1963
The civil rights movement was a series of worldwide political movements for equality before the law that peaked in the 1960s.
In many परिस्थितियों it took the form of campaigns of civil resistance aimed at achieving change by nonviolent forms of resistance.
In some परिस्थितियों it was accompanied, or followed, by civil unrest and armed rebellion.
The process was long and tenuous in many countries, and many of these movements did not fully achieve their goals although, the efforts of these movements did lead to improvements in the विधिक rights of previously oppressed groups of people.
The प्रमुख उद्देश्य of the सिविल अधिकारों गति शामिल, और शामिल, ensuring कि the अधिकारों of सब लोगों हैं बराबर सुरक्षित by the विधि, सहित the अधिकारों of अल्पसंख्यकों.
Civil rights movements ranging from the global LGBT rights movement to the global Women 's rights movement to various racial minority rights आंदोलनों around the world continue.
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th फीफा संसार कप, the संसार चैंपियनशिप for men 's national association football teams.
It took place in South Africa from 11 June to 11 July 2010.
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open only to African nations ; in 2004, the international football federation, FIFA, selected दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी over मिश्र and Morocco to become the first African nation to host the finals.
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the country, साथ the फाइनल played at the Soccer City stadium in South Africa 's largest city, Johannesburg.
thirty-two teams were selected for participation via a worldwide qualification tournament that began in August 2007.
In the first round of the tournament finals, the teams competed in round-robin groups of four teams for points, with the शीर्ष दो टीमों in प्रत्येक समूह proceeding.
These sixteen teams advanced to the नॉकआउट स्टेज, where three rounds of play decided which teams would participate in the final.
In the final, Spain, the European champions, defeated third-time finalists the Netherlands 1–0 after extra time, with Andrés Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain their first world title, becoming the eighth nation to win the tournament, and the first European nation to win the टूर्नामेंट बाहर its home continent.
Host nation South Africa, 2006 world champions इटली और 2006 runners-up France were all eliminated in the first round of the tournament.
It was the first time that the hosts were eliminated in the पहला round.
New Zealand with their three draws were the only undefeated team in the tournament, but were also eliminated in the first round.
The McMuffin is a family of breakfast sandwiches in various sizes and configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's.
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast sandwich ; it was invented by the late McDonald 's franchisee Herb Peterson in the late 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972.
John Lennon was an English musician who gained worldwide fame as one of the founders of The Beatles, for his subsequent सोलो करियर, और for his political activism and pacifism.
He was shot by Mark David Chapman at the entrance of the भवन जहाँ he lived, The Dakota, in New York City on 8 December 1980.
Lennon had just returned from Record Plant Studio with his wife, Yoko Ono.
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where it was stated that nobody could have lived for more than a few मिनट्स बाद sustaining such injuries.
Shortly after local news stations reported Lennon 's death, crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in front of the Dakota.
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in hartsdale, New York ; the ashes were given to Ono, who chose not to hold a funeral for him.
The first report of Lennon 's death to a U.S. national audience was announced by Howard Cosell, on ABC 's Monday Night Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major United States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The New ऑरलियन्स महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined Statistical Area, a larger trading area, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
the नगर is नामित बाद orléans, a नगर स्तिथ on the loire नदी in केन्द्र, फ़्रांस, और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके पृथक फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला, as खूब as इसके cross-cultural और बहुभाषी विरासत.
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine, music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ), and its annual celebrations और त्यौहार, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is often referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
नई ऑरलियन्स is स्तिथ in southeastern louisiana, straddling the मिसिसिपी नदी.
The city और Orleans Parish ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the east, Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west.
झील pontchartrain, भाग of जिससे is शामिल in the नगर हद, झूठ to the उत्तर और झील borgne झूठ to the ईस्ट.
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, former Vice-President रिचर्ड निक्सन, जीती the election over the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore law and order to the nation 's cities, torn by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide, the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race और a रिपब्लिकन निर्वाचित लिये the पहला समय in बारह years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest third party effort since 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा राज्यपाल George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the दक्षिण to end school segregation, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last election in which New York had the most मत in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, California gained the most electoral votes and रै remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won बगैर carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state.
करक ( ; भी ज्ञात as Garak, Garrak, and Gorg ) is a village in Gamasiyab Rural District, in the Central District of Nahavand County, Hamadan Province, Iran.
At the 2006 census, its population was 294, in 65 families.
Kurt 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) was an American musician and artist, best known as the lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
कोबेन formed निर्वाण साथ krist novoselic in एबरडीन, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल म्यूज़िक झाँकी, having इसके डेब्यू एल्बम ब्लीच released on the स्वतंत्र रिकार्ड लेबल sub पॉप in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of Nevermind, Nirvana थी labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often subject to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's audience साथ its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled with heroin addiction, illness and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image, and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his बीवी, संगीतकार Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle, the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
Since their debut, निर्वाण, साथ कोबेन as a songwriter, has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman engaged with the construction and मेंटेनेंस of machinery.
More generally in the English speaking world, early millwrights were specialist carpenters who erected machines used in agriculture, food processing and processing lumber and paper.
In the early part of the Industrial Revolution, उनके skills were pressed into service building the earliest powered textile mills.
Modern millwrights work with steel and other materials in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of several skilled trades in order to successfully fabricate औद्योगिक मशीनरी or to इकट्ठे machines from pre-fabricated parts.
The modern millwright must also be able to read blueprints and other schematics to aid him in the construction of complex systems.
Millwrights are frequently unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the US, हालांकि experienced millwrights often set themselves up as independent contractors.
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American romantic action thriller film loosely based on the Philip K. Dick short story, `` Adjustment Team ``.
The film was written and directed by George Nolfi and सितारों मैट डैमन and Emily Blunt.
The cast also includes Anthony mackie, John Slattery, Michael Kelly, and Terence Stamp.
The score was composed by Thomas Newman, with two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` Future 's Bright '' for the opening sequence ; `` Are You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ).
सोडियम azide is the inorganic compound with the formula NaN3.
This colorless salt is the gas-forming component in many car airbag systems.
It is used for the preparation of अन्य azide compounds.
It is an ionic substance, is highly soluble in water, and is very acutely विषाक्त.
Double रेनबो and supernumerary rainbows on the inside of the primary arc.
the छाया of the photographer 's head on the bottom marks the centre of the rainbow circle ( antisolar point ).
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection of light in water droplets in the धरती 's माहौल, resulting in a वर्णक्रम of light appearing in the sky.
it takes the रूप of a multicoloured चाप.
Rainbows caused by sunlight सदा appear in the section of sky directly opposite the sun.
In a `` primary rainbow '', the arc shows red on the outer भाग और violet on the inner side.
This रेनबो is caused by light being refracted while entering a droplet of water, then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the primary arc, and has the order of its colours reversed, red facing toward the other one, in both rainbows.
This second rainbow is caused by light reflecting twice अंदर water droplets.
The Conservative Party, officially the Conservative and Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the Tories, is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and British unionism.
it is the largest political party in the United Kingdom, being the largest single पार्टी in the House of Commons with 303 MPs, the largest party in local government with 9,391 councillors, and the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs.
It governs in coalition with the Liberal Democrats, with party leader David Cameron as Prime Minister.
The Conservative Party was founded in 1834, and was one of two dominant parties in the 19th century, along with the Liberal Party.
it बदला इसके नाम to the रूढ़िवादी और यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी in 1912 बाद विलय साथ the उदार यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी, हालांकि कि नाम is rarely प्रयुक्त और it is generally referred to as बस the रूढ़िवादी Party.
In the 1920s, the Liberal vote greatly diminished and the Labour Party became the Conservatives ' main rivals.
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57 years of the 20th century, including Winston Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic liberalisation and saw the Conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the three major parties.
The party was returned to government in coalition, having failed to win a majority, in 2010 under the more `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron.
In the European Parliament, the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs, who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives and reformists ( ECR ) parliamentary group, while the party itself is a member of the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest party in the Scottish Parliament और second-largest in the Welsh Assembly.
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist Party ( UUP ) as part of the Ulster Conservatives and Unionists arrangement, with the UUP currently participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive.
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose फाइनल, और perhaps most recognizable, line-up comprised Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams.
Formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas, Destiny 's Child members began their musical endeavors as लड़की 's Tyme comprising, among others, Knowles, Rowland, LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett.
After years of limited success, they were signed to कोलंबिया Records as Destiny 's Child.
Destiny 's Child थी launched into mainstream recognition following the release of their best-selling second album, The Writing 's on the Wall, which contained the number-one singles `` Bills, Bills, Bills `` and `` Say My Name ``.
Despite critical and commercial success, the group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil, as Roberson and Luckett attempted to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland, his daughter and niece, respectively.
Both Roberson and Luckett were soon replaced with Williams and Farrah Franklin ; however, in 2000, Franklin was dismissed, leaving them as a trio.
Their third album, Survivor, which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to the group 's experience, contains the worldwide hits `` Independent Women ``, `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious ``.
In 2002, they announced a hiatus and re-united two years later for the release of their fourth studio album, Destiny fulfilled ( 2004 ).
Destiny 's Child has sold more than 50 million records worldwide to date.
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the greatest musical trios of all time, the ninth most successful artist/band of the 2000s, and placed the group 68th in its all-time hot 100 कलाकारों list in 2008.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services headquartered in Druid Hills, unincorporated DeKalb County, Georgia, in Greater Atlanta.
It works to protect public health and safety by providing information to enhance health decisions, and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations.
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens and अन्य सूक्ष्मजैविक infections ), environmental health, occupational safety and health, health promotion, injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.
The CDC is the United States ' national public health institute and is a founding member of the International Association of National Public Health Institutes.
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the time, location, and magnitude of a भविष्य भूकंप within stated limits '', and particularly of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region. ''
This can be distinguished from भूकंप forecasting, which is the probabilistic assessment of general earthquake hazard, including the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes, in a given area over periods of years or decades.
This can be further distinguished from real-time earthquake warning systems, which, upon detection of a severe earthquake, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking.
To be useful, an earthquake prediction must be precise पर्याप्त to वारंट the लागत of increased एहतियात, including disruption of ordinary activities and commerce, and timely enough that preparation can be made.
Predictions must also be reliable, as false alarms and cancelled alarms are not only economically costly, but seriously undermine confidence in, and thereby the effectiveness of, any kind of warning.
With over 7,000 earthquakes around the संसार प्रत्येक year with a magnitude of 4.0 or greater, trivial success in earthquake prediction is easily obtained using sufficiently broad parameters of time, location, or magnitude.
However, such trivial `` successful पूर्वानुमान '' are not useful.
Major earthquakes are often followed by रिपोर्ट्स कि वे were predicted, or at least anticipated, but no claim of a successful prediction of a major earthquake has survived close inquiry.
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst scientists that some method of predicting earthquakes might be found, but by the 1990s continuing failure led many scientists to question whether it was even possible.
While many scientists still hold that, given पर्याप्त संसाधन, भविष्यवाणी might be possible, many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible.
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13, 1993 ) is an American actress, singer, musician, songwriter and record producer.
Ryan is best known for starring as Bailey Pickett in the Disney Channel असली Series The Suite Life on Deck.
In 2008, The Suite Life on Deck ranked as TV 's top series among kids 6-11 and the No. 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14.
Ryan started acting in professional theatres at the age of seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-dvd फिल्मी Barney : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney.
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 feature फिल्मी the longshots as Edith.
In 2009, she guest starred in an episode of Wizards of Waverly Place in Wizards on Deck with Hannah Montana as Bailey Pickett along with her other cast mates इससे the Suite Life on Deck.
Then, in 2010, she starred in the film 16 Wishes, which was the सबसे देखी cable program on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel.
16 बधाइयां introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the movie received high viewership in the adults demographic ( 18-34 ).
Soon after that, Ryan स्ट्रक्चर in the स्वतंत्र theatrical film, What If..., which premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan also starred in the new Disney Channel Original movie, Radio Rebel, where she portrays the भूमिका of Tara Adams, a shy 17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality, Radio Rebel.
released फ़रवरी 17, 2012.
Ryan stars in the titular role in the Disney Channel Original Series, Jessie.
Stührling Tourbillon गति ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition to the यांत्रिकी of a watch escapement.
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the English chronometer maker John Arnold, a tourbillon aims to counter the effects of gravity by mounting the escapement and balance wheel in a rotating cage, to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy, tourbillons are still included in some expensive modern watches as a novelty and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
The mechanism is usually उजागर on the watch 's face to show it off.
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a software component used for the installation, maintenance, and removal of software on modern Microsoft Windows systems.
The installation information, and often the files themselves, हैं packaged in installation packages, loosely relational databases structured as COM Structured Storages and commonly known as `` MSI files '', from their default file extension.
Windows Installer contains significant changes from its predecessor, Setup API.
New features include a GUI फ्रेमवर्क और स्वचालित generation of the uninstallation sequence.
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable installer frameworks such as older versions of InstallShield and NSIS.
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows Installer as the basis for installation frameworks, so that they synchronize correctly with other installers and keep the internal database of installed products consistent.
Important features such as rollback and versioning depend on a consistent internal database for reliable operation.
Furthermore, Windows Installer facilitates the principle of least privilege by performing software installations by proxy for unprivileged users.
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages, originally marketed as energy drinks, sold by Phusion Projects of Chicago, Illinois.
Phusion operates as Drink Four brewing Company.
चार लोको, the कम्पनी 's सबसे लोकप्रिय पेय, debuted in the संयुक्त राज्य मार्केट in 2005.
it is अभी बेची in 48 राज्य, और in कनाडा, the बहामा, बोलीविया, होंडुरास, और यूरोपीय.
The name `` Four '' is derived from the original energy drink 's four main ingredients : alcohol, caffeine, taurine, and guarana.
Four branded products have been the object of legal, ethical, and health concerns related to the कम्पनी allegedly marketing them to the underaged and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine.
After the beverage was banned in several states, a product reintroduction in December 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, and guarana as ingredients, and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.
the गर्दन of a guitar showing the nut ( in the background, coloured white ) and first four metal frets.
A fret is a raised element on the neck of a stringed यंत्र.
Frets usually extend आरपार the full width of the neck.
On most modern western fretted यंत्र, frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
On some historical instruments and non-European instruments, frets are made of pieces of string tied around the neck.
Frets divide the neck into fixed segments at intervals सम्बन्धित to a musical framework.
On instruments ऐसे as guitars, प्रत्येक fret represents एक semitone in the मानक पश्चिमी प्रणाली जहाँ एक अष्टक is विभाजित into बारह semitones.
Fret is often used as a verb, meaning simply `` to press down the string behind a fret. ''
Fretting प्रायः refers to the frets and/or their system of placement.
There was खपत of alcohol both during and after prohibition.
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production, distribution and sale of alcoholic beverages in the United States and was widely supported by the American public when it went into effect in 1920.
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that alcohol was the major cause of most personal and social problems and prohibition was seen as the solution to the nation 's poverty, crime, violence, and other ills.
Upon ratification of the amendment, the famous evangelist Billy Sunday said that `` The slums will soon be only a memory.
We will turn our prisons into factories and our jails into storehouses and corncribs. ''
( compare Christianity and alcohol. )
Since alcohol was to be banned and since it was seen as the cause of most, if not all, crime, some communities sold their jails.
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States Congress confidently asserted कि `` There is as much chance of repealing the Eighteenth Amendment as there is for a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ), ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI dimension symbol : L ), is the fundamental unit of length in the International System of Units ( SI ).
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator to the North Pole ( at sea level ), its definition has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology.
Since 1983, it has been defined as `` the length of the path travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a दूसरी. ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary रॉक्स in Makhtesh Gadol, Negev Desert, Israel
Geologists explaining the महत्व of volcanic ash layers to students on field in Iceland
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth as well as the processes and history that has shaped it.
geologists प्रायः engage in अध्ययन भूविज्ञान.
Geologists, studying more of an applied science than a theoretical one, must दृष्टिकोण भूविज्ञान using physics, chemistry and biology as well as other sciences.
Geologists, compared to scientists engaged in other fields, are generally more exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab.
Geologists are engaged in exploration for mining companies in search of metals, oils, and अन्य धरती resources.
They are also in the forefront of natural hazards and disasters warning and mitigation, studying earthquakes, volcanic activity, tsunamis, weather storms, and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events.
Currently, geologists are also engaged in the discussion of climate change, as they study the history and evidence for this Earth process.
Below is a व्यापक drill and tap size chart for all drills, imperial and metric, and taps up to 36.5 mm.
Modern vacuum tubes, mostly miniature style
In electronics, a वैक्यूम ट्यूब, इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्यूब ( in उत्तर अमेरिका ), तापायनिक वाल्व, ट्यूब, or वाल्व is a यंत्र controlling इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान through a वैक्यूम in a sealed संग्राहक.
The container is often पतला पारदर्शी glass in a roughly cylindrical shape.
The simplest vacuum tube, the diode, is essentially an incandescent light bulb with an added electrode inside.
When the bulb 's फिलामेंट is heated white-hot, electrons are `` boiled '' off its surface and into the vacuum inside the bulb.
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is made more positive than the hot filament, a सीधा वर्तमान flows through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ).
As the current only बहती in one direction, it makes it possible to convert an alternating current applied to the filament to direct current.
The introduction of a third electrode, a grid between the फिलामेंट and the plate, yields another function.
A voltage applied to the grid controls the current flowing from the filament to the plate.
Thus, it allows the device to be used as an electronic प्रवर्धक.
Vacuum tubes are thus प्रयुक्त लिये rectification, amplification, switching, or similar processing or creation of electrical signals.
The vast majority of modern day tubes consist of a sealed container with a vacuum inside, and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament.
Some exceptions to this are dealt with in the section about gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic प्रौद्योगिकी, which drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting, television, radar, sound reinforcement, sound recording and reproduction, large telephone networks, analog and digital computers, and industrial process control.
Although some applications had counterparts using earlier technologies such as the spark gap transmitter or mechanical computers, it was the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( called a ट्रायोड ) and its capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical.
In most applications, solid-state devices such as transistors and other semiconductor devices have replaced tubes.
Solid-state devices last longer and are smaller, more efficient, more reliable, and cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant unwanted heat, and can take many seconds—many minutes in critical applications—after powering on to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational tolerance.
However, tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not been developed, are अव्यवहारिक, or where a tube has superior performance, as with some devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters.
Tubes are still produced for such अनुप्रयोग.
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by the electromagnetic pulse produced by nuclear explosions and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares.
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured sweets, currently produced and marketed by the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, a प्रभाग of मंगल, Inc.
They have hard sugar shells which carry the letter S.
The inside is mainly sugar, corn syrup, and hydrogenated palm kernel oil along with fruit juice, citric acid, and natural and artificial flavours.
The confectionery रै been sold in a variety of flavour collections, such as Tropical and Wild Berry.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill, ( 30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) was a British politician who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955.
Widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime leaders of the 20th century, Churchill was also an officer in the British Army, a historian, a writer, and an artist.
He is the only British Prime Minister in history to have received the Nobel Prize in Literature, and was also the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States.
Churchill was born into an aristocratic परिवार as the grandson of the 7th Duke of Marlborough.
His father, रब randolph चर्चिल, थी a charismatic politician who served as Chancellor of the Exchequer ; his mother, Jennie Jerome, was an American socialite.
As a young army officer, he देखी action in British India, The Sudan, and the Second Boer War.
He gained fame as a war correspondent और लिखा books about his campaigns.
At the forefront of politics for fifty years, he held many political and cabinet positions.
Before the First World War, he served as अध्यक्ष of the Board of Trade, Home Secretary, and First Lord of the Admiralty as part of the Asquith Liberal government.
दौरान the war, he continued as First Lord of the Admiralty until the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign caused his departure from government.
He then briefly resumed active army service on the Western Front as commander of the 6th Battalion of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
He returned to government as Minister of Munitions, Secretary of State for War, and Secretary of State for Air.
After the War, Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( Baldwin ) government of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy.
Also controversial was his opposition to increased home rule for India and his resistance to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII.
Out of office and politically `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in warning about Nazi जर्मनी और in campaigning for rearmament.
on the outbreak of the Second World War, he was again appointed First Lord of the Admiralty.
Following the resignation of Neville Chamberlain on 10 May 1940, Churchill became Prime Minister.
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat, surrender, or a compromise peace helped inspire British resistance, especially during the difficult early days of the War when Britain stood अलोन among यूरोपीय countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler.
Churchill was विशेषकर noted for his speeches and radio broadcasts, which helped inspire the British people.
He led Britain as Prime Minister until victory over Nazi Germany had been secured.
After the Conservative Party lost the 1945 election, he became Leader of the विपक्ष to the श्रमिक ( Attlee ) government.
After winning the 1951 election, he again became Prime Minister, before retiring in 1955.
Upon his death, Elizabeth II granted उसे the honour of a state funeral, which saw one of the largest assemblies of world statesmen in history.
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 पोल, Churchill is widely regarded as being among the most influential people in British history.
Ruby Gloom is an animated टेलीविज़न show based on an apparel franchise.
The show is produced by Nelvana and began airing on October 13, 2006 in कनाडा on the संजाल YTV.
It stars the आवाज़ें of सारा Gadon, Emily Hampshire, and Peter Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a compact car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the Ford Motor Company since 1998.
Ford began sales of the Focus to Europe in July 1998 and in North America during 1999 for the 2000 model year.
In Europe, South America, North America and South Africa, the Focus replaced the various versions of the Ford Escort sold in those markets.
In Asia and Australasia, it replaced the Ford Laser.
As of the first half of 2012, the Focus surpassed the Toyota Corolla to become the world 's best selling automobile nameplate.
The Focus has been considered one of the 50 greatest cars of the past fifty years by British magazine car.
An agar plate -- an example of a bacterial growth medium.
Specifically, it is a streak plate ; the नारंगी lines and dots are formed by bacterial colonies.
A growth medium or culture medium is a liquid or gel designed to support the growth of microorganisms or cells, or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens.
There are different types of media for growing अलग प्रकार of cells.
There are two major types of growth media : those used for cell culture, which use specific cell types derived from plants or animals, and microbiological culture, which are used for growing microorganisms, such as bacteria or yeast.
The most common growth media for microorganisms are nutrient broths and agar plates ; specialized media are sometimes required for microorganism and cell culture growth.
Some organisms, termed fastidious organisms, require specialized environments due to complex nutritional आवश्यकताएँ.
Viruses, for example, are obligate intracellular parasites and require a growth medium containing living cells.
A talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, film directors, musicians, models, निर्माता, पेशेवर एथलीट, writers and other people in various entertainment businesses.
An agent also defends, supports और promotes the interest of his/her clients.
Agents can नहीं उपज उनके अपना shows due to विरोध of ब्याज.
A हुनर agent must be familiar with their clients.
An agent has to know what kind of work the client can and can not do in order to match them with various jobs.
Having an agent is not required, but does help the artist in getting jobs.
In many cases casting directors, or अन्य व्यवसायों, go to talent agencies to find artists they are looking for.
The agent is paid a percentage of the star 's earnings ( typically 10 % ).
Agents sometimes will be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations that govern different types of एजेंटों that are established by artist 's unions and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates.
There are also professional organizations that license talent agencies.
Since the मनाही in viewership in थिएटर, इससे the 1950s to 1960s, इस caused a स्मारकीय शिफ़्ट in कैसा studios होता उपज films और यूँ reducing the लागत of विशेष और महंगी अभिनेताओं.
अभिनेताओं और अभिनेत्रियों यहूद working लिये the studios लकिन यहूद नहीं स्वामित्व by एक प्रमुख स्टुडियो एंटिटी और so यहूद समर्थ to कार्य on भीतर उनके समय और साथ अन्य studios.
Because of this, agents were अभी देखी as a necessity instead of an option.
Agents now became third parties that negotiated between studios and clients, this making their services imperative between each party.
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts, all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code, which calls an agent a `` person or निगम who engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists. ''
Mars has two ज्ञात moons, phobos and Deimos, which are thought to be captured asteroids.
दोनो satellites यहूद खोजा in 1877 by asaph हॉल और हैं नामित बाद the वर्ण phobos ( panic/fear ) और deimos ( terror/dread ) जो, in यूनानी mythology, accompanied उनके पिता एरीस, परमेश्वर of युद्ध, into बैटल.
Ares was known as Mars to the romans.
It is possible that Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 meters and a dust ring between Phobos and Deimos may be उपस्थित but none have been discovered.
In law enforcement parlance, the term murder book refers to the case file of a murder investigation.
Typically, murder books include crime scene photographs and sketches, पोस्टमार्टम और forensic reports, transcripts of investigators ' notes and witness interviews.
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder investigation, from the time the murder is first reported through the arrest of a suspect.
Law enforcement agencies typically guard murder books carefully, and it is unusual for civilians to be given unfettered access to these kinds of records, especially for unsolved cases.
A melon baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller that varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
They are generally used in fruit salad.
A KSA, or Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities, is a series of narrative statements that are required when applying to United States Federal government job openings.
KSAs हैं प्रयुक्त to determine, along with resumes, who the best applicants are when several candidates qualify for a job.
The knowledge, skills and abilities ( KSAs ) necessary for the successful performance of a स्थिति हैं contained on each job vacancy announcement.
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal agencies to stop requiring job applicants to fill out the questionnaires, to be phased out within a year.
KSAs are brief and focused essays about one 's career and educational background that presumably qualify one to perform the duties of the स्थिति being applied for.
A knowledge, skills, and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's talent and expertise and related experiences ( work, शिक्षा, volunteer ) and accomplishments.
A series of KSA कथन हैं प्रायः जरूरी when applying for most federal government and some state and city government jobs.
KSAs are used as a गज to assess the capabilities of a prospective applicant in terms of likely ability to perform the duties of the job.
Most government hiring officials look for a short, crisp and clear KSA that emphasizes results or accomplishments प्राप्त in previous work.
KSA कथन are also known as Evaluation Factors.
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '', `` Quality Ranking कारकों '', `` Knowledge, Abilities, skills and Other Characteristics '', or `` Job Elements ''.
The name can be just a name but often it influences content और लंबाई of the essay.
Every agency has its own regulations but most of the time the प्रत्येक KSA factor should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long.
The below definitions are defined by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management :
ज्ञान, कौशल, और abilities ( ksas ) - the गुण जरूरी to perform a जॉब और हैं generally demonstrated through qualifying सेवा, शिक्षा, or प्रशिक्षण.
Knowledge - Is a body of information applied सीधे to the performance of a function.
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a learned psychomotor act.
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable behavior or a behavior that results in an observable product.
The scoring of KSA essays is based on a scale of from one to 100.
Job applicants must score above 70 to be considered for the position.
High scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible, providing examples from previous employment or training that clearly demonstrate you meet the योग्यता.
When applying to federal government positions, a Federal पुनरारंभ is usually required in addition to KSA statements.
सही
Whole grains are cereal grains that contain cereal germ, endosperm, and bran, in contrast to refined grains, which retain only the endosperm.
आम whole grains include:
गेहूं
oat
जौ - Hulled and Dehulled ( not Pearl )
मक्का
Brown राइस
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
Sprouted दाने
buckwheat
Common whole अनाज products include:
Whole wheat आटा
Whole गेहूं Bread
पूरे wheat Pasta
Rolled oats or oat groats
triticale flour
पॉपकॉर्न
teff flour
Common refined non-whole grain products include:
Love Always is the debut album of अमरीकी r & B duo K-Ci & JoJo, released on June 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
It was recorded at various studios in New York and the Los Angeles area in 1996 and 1997.
It was produced by JoJo and several others, including DeVante Swing, James Mtume, and Jeff Redd.
The duo were originally a part of Jodeci before this album.
the एल्बम peaked at छठे on the us बिलबोर्ड 200 और भी appeared on अंतरराष्ट्रीय चार्ट.
The single `` All My Life `` charted number one in multiple countries, and all four of the album 's singles peaked above the top 25 in the US hot r & b/hip-hop गीतों and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles.
Love Always was प्राप्त favorably by आलोचकों, who praised the brothers ' singing ability and the production.
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and gold by Music Canada and IFPI Sweden.
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9 million copies in the United States.
A variable-rate बंधक, adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ), or tracker mortgage is a mortgage loan with the interest rate on the note periodically adjusted based on an index which reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's standard variable rate/ base rate.
वहीँ may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index, but where the lender offers no specific link to the underlying market or index the rate can be changed at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the United States, whilst in the United States, `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most common, and implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal government, with caps on charges.
In many देशों, adjustable rate mortgages are the norm, and in such places, may simply be referred to as mortgages.
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity Treasury ( CMT ) securities, the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ), and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders उपयोग उनके अपना लागत of निधि as an अनुक्रमणिका, बल्कि than using अन्य indices.
इस is किया to ensure a स्थिर हाशिया लिये the lender, जिनकी अपना लागत of funding होगा प्रायः be सम्बन्धित to the अनुक्रमणिका.
Consequently, payments made by the borrower may change over time with the changing interest rate ( alternatively, the term of the loan may change ).
This is distinct from the graduated payment mortgage, which offers changing भुगतान amounts but a fixed interest rate.
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage, the fixed rate mortgage, the negative amortization mortgage, and the balloon payment mortgage.
Adjustable rates transfer part of the interest rate risk from the lender to the borrower.
वे can be used where unpredictable interest rates make fixed rate loans difficult to obtain.
The borrower benefits if the interest rate falls but loses if the interest rate increases.
the borrower benefits from reduced margins to the underlying cost of borrowing compared to fixed or capped rate mortgages.
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy, a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy, took place shortly after midnight on जून 5, 1968, in लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, दौरान the अभियान season for the United States Presidential election, 1968.
After winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for the Democratic nomination for President of the United States, Kennedy was shot as he walked through the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later.
Sirhan Sirhan, a 24-year-old Palestinian / Jordanian immigrant, was convicted of Kennedy 's हत्या और is serving a life sentence for the crime.
Sirhan 's lawyers have released statements claiming evidence that he was framed.
The शूटिंग was recorded on audio tape by a freelance newspaper reporter, and the aftermath was captured on film.
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at St. Patrick 's Cathedral in New York for two days before a funeral mass was held on June 8.
His body was interred near his brother John at आर्लिंगटन National Cemetery.
His death prompted the protection of अध्यक्षीय candidates by the United States Secret Service.
ह्यूबर्ट humphrey गई on to जीत the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन ultimately narrowly खोया the चुनाव to रिचर्ड Nixon.
As with his brother Jack 's death, Bobby 's assassination and the circumstances surrounding it have spawned a variety of conspiracy theories.
As of 2013 कैनेडी remains one of only two sitting United States Senators to be assassinated ( the other being Huey Long ).
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an informal name for the period in the history of mainstream American comic books generally considered to last from the mid-1980s until present day.
In this period, comic book characters generally became darker and more psychologically complex, creators became better-known and active in changing the industry, independent comics flourished, and larger publishing houses became more commercialized.
An alternate name for this काल is the Dark Age of Comic Books, due to the popularity and artistic influence of grim titles, such as and Watchmen.
When Harry Met Sally... is a 1989 अमरीकी romantic comedy film written by Nora Ephron and directed by Rob Reiner.
It stars Billy Crystal as Harry and Meg Ryan as Sally.
The story follows the title characters from the time they मिलें बस पहले sharing a cross-country drive, through twelve years or so of chance encounters in New York City.
The film raises the question `` Can men and women ever just be friends ? '' and advances many ideas about relationships that became household concepts, such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
The origins of the film came from Reiner 's return to single life after a divorce.
An interview Ephron conducted with Reiner provided the basis for Harry.
सैली थी आधारित on ephron और कुछ of उसके मित्रों.
Crystal came on फलक and made his own contributions to the screenplay, making Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the structure of the film with much of the dialogue based on the real-life friendship between Reiner and Crystal.
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by Harry connick, jr., with a big band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick won his first Grammy Award for Best Jazz Male Vocal प्रदर्शन.
Columbia Pictures released the फिल्मी using the `` platform '' technique, which involved opening it in a few select cities, letting positive word of mouth generate interest, and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks.
When Harry Met Sally... grossed a total of US $ 92.8 million in North America.
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award, an Oscar nomination, and a Writers Guild of America Award nomination for her screenplay.
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list of the top कॉमेडी films in American cinema and number 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 Funniest Movies ''.
In early 2004, the film was adapted for the stage in a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food products primarily consisting of boxed pasta bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
The contents of each box are combined with browned ground beef, water and milk to create a complete dish.
The product line भी सुविधाएँ products with other starches such as rice or potatoes instead of pasta.
It is made by सामान्य Mills.
Although the classic boxed Hamburger हेल्पर उत्पाद only supply the starch item and the sauce packets, some varieties of the product include ground beef.
These include a frozen food line, which features some of the brand 's classic varieties in a complete meal kit form, with frozen ground beef and frozen sauce packaged separately इससे the नूडल्स in the same bag.
There is also an `` instant '' version of Hamburger Helper containing dehydrated meat, noodles and seasonings in a small pouch, requiring only water to be added.
The हैमबर्गर हेल्पर शुभंकर is the `` Helping Hand '', an anthropomorphic animated, four fingered left-hand glove, which appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages.
Ceres as seen साथ the Hubble Space Telescope.
It is the only बौना ग्रह in the asteroid belt.
Pluto in approximate true colour based on Hubble Space Telescope albedo data
Haumea with its moons, Hiʻiaka and namaka ( कलाकार 's conception )
माकेमाके ( artist 's conception )
Eris and its moon dysnomia as seen with the Hubble Space Telescope
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass object that is neither a planet nor a satellite.
More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial body in direct orbit of the Sun that is massive enough for its shape to be controlled by gravitation, but that unlike a planet has not cleared its orbital region of other objects.
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the Sun, brought about by an increase in discoveries of trans-Neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in size, and finally precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive object, Eris.
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the neighbourhood of their orbit are defined as planets, while those that are not massive enough to be rounded by their own gravity are defined as small Solar System bodies.
Dwarf planets come in between.
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it was said to be the `` right decision '' by Mike Brown, who discovered and other new dwarf planets, but has been rejected by Alan Stern, who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990.
The IAU currently recognizes five dwarf planets in the Solar System :, Pluto,,, and.
However, only two of these bodies, Ceres and Pluto, have been observed in enough detail to demonstrate that they fit the definition.
Eris has been accepted as a dwarf planet because it is अधिक विशाल than Pluto.
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a diameter of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets.
The only two such objects known at the time, Makemake and Haumea, went through this naming कार्यविधि और यहूद declared to be dwarf planets.
It is suspected that another hundred or so known objects in the Solar System are dwarf ग्रह.
estimates हैं कि up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire region known as the Kuiper belt is explored, and that the number may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered.
Individual astronomers recognize several of these, and in August 2011 Mike Brown published a list of 390 प्रत्याशी वस्तुएँ, ranging from `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets. '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the पाँच स्वीकृत by the IAU plus,,, and – as `` virtually certain '', with another two dozen highly likely, and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total.
The classification of bodies in other planetary systems with the characteristics of dwarf planets has not been addressed.
A debit card ( also known as a bank card or check card ) is a plastic payment card that provides the cardholder electronic access to his or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution.
Some cards have a stored value with which a payment is made, while most relay a message to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account.
The card, where accepted, can be used instead of cash when making purchases.
In some cases, the primary account number is assigned exclusively लिये उपयोग on the Internet and there is no physical card.
In many countries, the use of debit cards has become so widespread that their volume has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques and, in some instances, cash transactions.
The विकास of debit cards, unlike credit cards and charge cards, has generally been country specific resulting in a number of different systems around the world, which were often incompatible.
Since the mid-2000s, a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be used in other countries and allowed their use for internet and phone purchases.
Unlike credit and charge cards, payments using a डेबिट कार्ड हैं immediately transferred from the cardholder 's designated bank account, instead of them paying the money back at a later date.
Debit cards usually also allow for instant withdrawal of cash, acting as the ATM card लिये withdrawing cash.
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to customers, where a customer can withdraw cash along साथ उनके purchase.
Francois Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26, 1914 - January 23, 2011 ) was an American fitness, exercise, and nutritional expert and motivational speaker who is sometimes called `` the गॉडफादर of फ़िटनेस '' and the `` first fitness superhero. ''
He described himself as being a `` sugarholic '' and a `` junk food junkie '' जबतक he was 15.
He also had behavioral problems, but `` turned his life around '' after listening to a पब्लिक लेक्चर by पॉल Bragg, a well-known nutrition speaker.
During his career, he came to believe that the country 's overall health depended on the health of its population, writing that `` physical culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America. ''
Decades before health and fitness began being promoted by celebrities like Jane Fonda and Richard Simmons, LaLanne was already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of नियमित कसरत और a शुभ आहार.
He published numerous books on fitness and hosted a fitness television show between 1953 and 1985.
As early as 1936, at age 21, he opened one of the nation 's first fitness gyms in Oakland, California, which became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s television exercise programs was aimed toward women, whom he also encouraged to join his health clubs.
He invented a number of exercise machines, सहित leg-extension and pulley devices.
Besides producing उसके अपना श्रेणी of वीडियो, he coached the elderly and disabled not to forgo exercise, believing it would enable them to enhance their strength.
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder, as well as for his prodigious feats of strength.
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated, `` That Jack lalanne 's an एनिमल !, '' after LaLanne, at 54, beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest.
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death, Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by inspiring `` billions all over the world to live healthier lives, '' and, as governor of California, had earlier placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness.
Steve Reeves credited LaLanne as his inspiration to build his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist.
He was inducted to the California Hall of Fame and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Air forces of most of the countries use system similar to सेना.
However, the RAF and the air forces of many राष्ट्रमंडल देशों, or those formerly under a British influence, use a different set of ranks loosely based on naval equivalents ; Lieutenant, Commander, Captain and Commodore are prefixed for air force use with Flight, Wing, Group and Air, respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ).
Penélope Cruz sánchez ( ; born April 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an agent at age 15, she made her acting debut at 16 on television and her feature film debut the following year in Jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to critical acclaim.
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your आँखें ( 1997 ), The Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ), The Girl of Your Dreams ( 2000 ) and Woman on Top ( 2000 ).
Cruz achieved recognition for her lead roles in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow.
She has since built a कामयाब करियर, appearing in films इससे a चौड़ी दायरा of जाति, सहित the कॉमेडी waking up in रेनो ( 2002 ), the थ्रिलर gothika ( 2003 ), the क्रिसमस फिल्म नोएल ( 2004 ), और the कार्रवाई एडवेंचर सहारा ( 2005 ).
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in Volver ( 2006 ) and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी Globe and Academy Award nominations for each.
She won the अकादमी पुरस्कार for Best Supporting Actress in 2008 for Vicky Cristina Barcelona.
वो थी the पहला स्पेनी अभिनेत्री in इतिहास to प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार और the पहला स्पेनी अभिनेत्री to प्राप्त a स्टार at the हॉलीवुड Walk of Fame.
Cruz has modeled for companies such as Mango, Ralph लॉरेन and L'Oréal.
Penélope and her younger sister Mónica Cruz have designed items for Mango.
She has donated both her time and money to charities.
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India, where she spent one week working for Mother Teresa ; she donated her salary from ' to help fund the late nun 's mission.
A wax sculpture of Cruz will be लगाई in a प्रीमियर spot in the Grevin Wax Museum in Paris.
File Explorer, previously known as Windows Explorer, is a file manager application and also a navigation tool that is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows operating system from Windows 95 onwards.
It provides a आलेखीय user interface for accessing the file systems.
It is also the component of the operating system that presents many user interface items on the monitor ऐसे as the taskbar and desktop.
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer running ( for example, the File | Run command in Task Manager on NT-derived versions of Windows will function without it, as will commands typed in a command prompt window ).
Located in the C : \Windows directory, it is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell, explorer.exe, or simply “Explorer”.
The Care Bears are characters निर्मित by American Greetings in 1981 for use on greeting cards.
The original artwork for the cards was painted by artist Elena Kucharik.
In 1983, Kenner turned the Care bears into plush teddy bears.
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV specials called The Care Bears in the Land Without Feelings ( 1983 ) and The Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ).
They also had their own television series from 1985 to 1988, in addition to three feature films : The Care Bears Movie ( 1985 ), Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986 ), and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ).
Each Care Bear comes in a different color and has a specialized insignia on its belly that represents its duty and personality.
This तमगा was known as their `` tummy symbol. ''
However, the movie Care bears : oopsy Does It ! renamed them `` belly badges ''.
Adding to the Care Bear family are the `` Care Bear Cousins '', जिससे विशेषता a शेर, खरगोश, penguin, raccoon, and other such animals created in the same style as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears were reintroduced with new toys.
Made by Play-Along Toys, the new toys offered features such as illuminated bellies upon touch, एरोबिक bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears.
As part of this comeback, the Bears have appeared in two computer-animated फिल्मों : Care Bears : Journey to Joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary ; another relaunch took place, as well as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It !.
In mid-2011, ag घोषित a revival TV animated series titled `` Care Bears : Welcome to Care-a-Lot ``.
The premiere of the श्रेणी utilizes `` 30 years of caring ''.
It premiered on The Hub on June 2, 2012.
as of 2013, परवाह bears merchandise is स्टिल होने marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and France 's MoonScoop Group attempted to acquire the franchise from AGC, with no apparent success.
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the United States that runs from Interstate 15 near Cove Fort, Utah, to a पार्क and Ride near Baltimore, Maryland.
It was the first Interstate Highway project in the United States.
I-70 approximately traces the path of u.S. रूट 40 ( and also the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains.
West of the Rockies, the route of I-70 was derived from अनेक sources.
I-70 is the fifth longest Interstate Highway, after I-90, I-80, I-40, and I-10.
The निर्माण of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel, Glenwood Canyon, and the San Rafael Swell.
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest point साथ the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग system with an elevation of.
The sections of the interstate in Missouri and Kansas have laid claim to be the first interstate in the United States.
Though disputed, the Federal Highway प्रशासन has claimed the section of I-70 through Glenwood Canyon, completed in 1992, was the last piece of the Interstate Highway system, as originally planned, to open to traffic.
Photo of 1999 कुल eclipse
As seen from the Earth, a solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the Sun and Earth, and the Moon fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
This can happen only at new moon, when the Sun and the Moon are in conjunction as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy.
In a कुल ग्रहण, the डिस्क of the सूर्य is fully obscured by the चंद्रमा.
In आंशिक और annular eclipses तभी भाग of the सूर्य is obscured.
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit, a little closer to the Earth, and in the same orbital plane, there would be total solar eclipses every single month.
However, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at more than 5 degrees to Earth 's orbit around the सूर्य ( देखिए ecliptic ) so इसके छाया at new moon usually misses Earth.
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic प्लेन as the Moon 's orbit must cross this plane in order for an eclipse ( both solar as well as lunar ) to occur.
In addition, the Moon 's actual orbit is elliptical, often taking it far enough away from Earth that its apparent आकार is not large enough to block the Sun totally.
The orbital planes cross each year at a line of nodes resulting in at least two, and up to five, solar eclipses occurring प्रत्येक साल ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses.
However, total solar eclipses are rare at any particular location because totality exists only along a narrow path on Earth 's surface traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra.
An eclipse is a प्राकृतिक phenomenon.
Nevertheless, in some ancient and modern cultures, solar eclipses have been attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens.
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its astronomical explanation, as the Sun seems to disappear during the day and the sky darkens in a matter of minutes.
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the Sun, observers should use special eye protection or indirect viewing techniques when viewing a partial eclipse, or the partial phases of a total eclipse.
It is safe to view the total phase of a total solar eclipse with the unaided eye and without protection, however.
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles will travel to remote locations to observe or witness predicted central सौर eclipses.
A political party ( from, Genitive partis, `` part '', `` portion '' ) is a political organization that typically seeks to influence, or entirely control, सरकारी नीति, प्रायः by nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office.
पार्टियों participate in electoral campaigns and educational outreach or protest actions.
Parties often espouse an ideology or vision, expressed in a party program, bolstered by a written platform with specific goals, forming a गठबन्धन among disparate interests.
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous tropical fruiting पेड़ in the flowering संयंत्र परिवार Anacardiaceae.
The mango is native to South Asia, from where it has been distributed worldwide to become one of the most cultivated fruits in the tropics.
While other Mangifera species ( e.g. horse mango, M. foetida ) are also grown on a more localized basis, Mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'Indian mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions.
It is the national fruit of India, Pakistan and Philippines.
In several cultures, its fruit and leaves are ritually used as floral decorations at weddings, public celebrations and religious ceremonies.
Gill Arnette Byrd, < ref name > http : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm ( born February 20, 1961 in San Francisco, California ) is a former professional American football player.
He was a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the San Diego chargers after graduating from San Jose State University.
Byrd was inducted into the Chargers Hall of Fame in 1998.
He was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High School ( San Francisco ), helping to lead the Cardinals to the city championship in his senior season of 1978.
World map showing the tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the Northern tropic, is the circle of latitude on the Earth that marks the most northerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its zenith.
This event occurs once per year, at the time of the June solstice, when the Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
It फिलहाल ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the Equator.
Its Southern Hemisphere बंटवारा, अंकन the most southerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead, is the Tropic of Capricorn.
These tropics are two of the five major degree measures or major circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth, besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator.
The positions of these circles of latitude ( other than the Equator ) are dictated by the tilt of the Earth 's axis of rotation relative to the plane of its orbit.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, and is currently the dominant consumer video format in एशिया, उत्तर अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, and Australia.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as वर्णित नीचे ).
Typically, the data रेट लिये dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was first available for retail around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation लिये a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly available, because every सदस्य must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential.
In computing and specifically Internet, a leech is one who benefits, usually deliberately, from others ' information or effort but does not offer anything in return, or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech.
in अर्थशास्त्र, इस प्रकार of बर्ताव is पुकारा `` फ़्री सवारी '' और is संबद्ध साथ the फ़्री सवार प्रॉब्लम.
Depending on context, leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources, but often instead to greedy use according to etiquette : to wit, using too much of what is freely given without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it.
The name derives from the leech, an animal कि झंझट blood and then tries to leave unnoticed.
Other शर्तें are used, such as `` freeloader '', but leech is the most common.
The full eagle logo, used in various versions from 1970 to 1993.
the संयुक्त राज्य Postal Service ( USPS ), also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail, is an independent agency of the United States federal government responsible for providing postal service in the United States.
It is one of the few government एजेंसियों explicitly authorized by the United States Constitution.
The USPS traces its जड़ें to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress, where Benjamin Franklin was appointed the first postmaster general.
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 from Franklin 's operation and transformed into its current form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act.
The USPS employs over 574,000 workers and operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The USPS is the operator of the largest गाडी fleet in the world.
The USPS is legally obligated to serve सब Americans, regardless of geography, at uniform price and quality.
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` u.S. Mail '' and personal letterboxes in the United States, but still competes against private package delivery services, such as UPS and FedEx.
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars since the early 1980s with the minor exception of subsidies for costs associated with the disabled and overseas voters.
Since the 2006 all-time peak mail volume, after which Congress passed the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act ``, ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into an account to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the future, a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume, prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit.
Washington, D.C. has been the capital of the United States since 1800.
Eight other cities have served as the meeting place for Congress and are therefore considered to have once been the capital of the United States.
In addition, each of the 50 U.S. states and the five principal territories of the United राज्य maintains its own capital.
Princess cut diamond set in a ring
The Princess cut is the second most popular cut shape for diamonds, next to a round brilliant.
The face-up आकार of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the profile or side-on shape is similar to that of an inverted pyramid with four beveled sides.
the राजकुमारी cut is a relatively new diamond cut, having been created in the 1960s.
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more popular round brilliant cut, in which the top of diamond, called the crown, is cut with a round face-up shape and the bottom, called the pavilion, is shaped similar to a cone.
A princess cut with the same width as the diameter of a round brilliant will weigh more as it has four corners which would otherwise have been काटें बंद and rounded to form a round brilliant.
The princess cut is sometimes referred to as a square modified brilliant.
However, while displaying the same high degree of brilliance, its faceting style is unique and completely अलग from that of a round brilliant.
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` Cross '' cut crown and a series of unique, chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion जिससे combine to give a distinct cross-shaped reflection when the stone is viewed directly through the table.
Effectively, the Princess cut combines the high degree of light return of a round brilliant cut with a distinctive square or rectangular shape.
The square princess cut diamond is usually slightly cheaper than round brilliant cut diamonds of the same carat weight because it retains about 80 % of the अशिष्ट डायमंड, as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough.
The ability to retain more crystal weight makes this shape popular amongst डायमंड cutters.
accredited gem appraisers ( आगा ) और अमरीकी gem समाज प्रयोगशाला ( agsl ) और यूरोपीय gem laboratories-usa ( egl-usa ) हैं फिलहाल the तभी लैब्स कि ग्रेड the राजकुमारी काटें लिये काटें.
There is no universal definition of what measurements make an ideal princess cut diamond and many diamond manufacturers market ideal diamonds with differing facet पैटर्न और कोण as `` ideal cut ''.
in कंट्रास्ट to the agsl, आगा, और egl-usa the gemological संस्थान of अमेरिका ( gia ) रै stated कि वहीँ is नहीं पर्याप्त उद्योग सर्वसम्मति or अनुभवजन्य आंकड़ा to बताएँ काटें ग्रेडिंग मानकों लिये राजकुमारी काटें ईंट और to do so is at the रिस्क of उपभोक्ता जो may be धोखे by ईंट accompanied by निर्गुण आदर्श or बेहतरीन cut grades.
The name `` Princess Cut '' was originally used in connection with another diamond cut, otherwise known as the `` Profile '' cut, designed by arpad nagy, a लंदन कटर, in 1961.
The same name was later used and made popular by Ygal Perlman, Betzalel Ambar, and इसराईल itzkowitz in इसराईल in 1979.
A similar cut with only 49 facets, as opposed to the original 58 facets of the princess cut, was later branded the `` Quadrillion '' and initially वितरित by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles.
Three years of optical research yielded a square stone with faceting similar to that of a round brilliant cut diamond.
A तुलना
The number of chevrons can affect the overall outlook of a princess cut diamond.
This can usually be determined by the wire diagram that is plotted in diamond grading रिपोर्ट्स.
By adding more chevrons on the pavilion side of the diamond, the individual facets of the diamond will now be broken bas into छोटी facets.
As a result, it can give a princess cut diamond a `` crushed ice '' look.
Vice versa, when a princess cut diamond has lesser chevrons, it tends to give the diamond a chunky outlook due to broader facets.
The domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ), a member of the Canidae family of the mammalian order Carnivora.
The पद `` domestic dog '' is generally used for both domesticated and feral varieties.
The dog has been the first animal to be domesticated and has been the most widely kept working, hunting, and pet एनिमल in human history.
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine species, as opposed to the word `` कुतिया '' for the female of the species.
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 years ago but,, the oldest fossil specimens genetically linked to the modern dog 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago.
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to them quickly becoming ubiquitous across world cultures.
Dogs perform many roles for people, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, सुरक्षा, assisting पुलिस and military, companionship, and, more recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
This impact on human society has दिए उन्हें the उपनाम `` Man 's Best Friend '' in the Western world.
In some cultures, dogs are also a सोर्स of meat.
in 2001, वहीँ यहूद अनुमानित to be 400 लाख कुत्तो in the संसार.
Most breeds of dogs are at most a few hundred years old, having been artificially selected for particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles.
Through this selective breeding, the dog has developed into सैंकड़ों of varied breeds, and shows more behavioral and morphological variation than any other land mammal.
For उदाहरण, ऊँचाई measured to the withers सीमाएँ इससे in the चिहुआहुआ to परिचय in the आयरिश wolfhound ; रंग varies इससे श्वेत through grays ( प्रायः पुकारा `` ब्लू '' ) to ब्लैक, और भूरा इससे लाइट ( तन ) to अंधेरा ( `` रेड '' or `` चॉकलेट '' ) in a चौड़ी विभिन्नता of पैटर्न ; coats can be छोटी or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, सीधा, घुंघराले, or चिकना.
It is common for most breeds to shed this coat.
Diagram of a हस्तांतरण electron microscope
A 1973 Siemens electron microscope, Musée des Arts et Métiers, Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a type of microscope that uses an इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम to illuminate a specimen and produce a magnified image.
An EM has greater resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the structure of smaller objects because electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons.
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal light microscopes are limited by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x.
The electron microscope uses electrostatic and electromagnetic lenses to control the इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम और फ़ोकस it to form an image.
These electron optical lenses are analogous to the glass lenses of a light optical microscope.
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range of biological and inorganic specimens including microorganisms, cells, large molecules, biopsy samples, metals, and crystals.
Industrially, the electron microscope is often used for quality control and failure analysis.
Modern electron microscopes produce electron micrographs, using specialized digital कैमरे or फ़्रेम grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried chicken fast food restaurants founded in 1972 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as Popeyes Chicken & बिस्कुट or Popeyes Chicken & Seafood, It was acquired by Sandy Springs, Georgia -based AFC Enterprises, originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company, in 1993.
According to a company press रिलीज दिनाँक June 29, 2007, Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group, measured by number of units '', with more than 1,800 restaurants in more than 40 states and the District of Columbia, and over 22 countries worldwide including Turkey, Northern Cyprus, Bahrain, China, Hong Kong, Iraq, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Japan, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Singapore, Canada, Jamaica, Guyana, Suriname, Mexico, Trinidad, Puerto Rico, Honduras, Vietnam, Panama, Peru, and Costa Rica.
About thirty स्थितियाँ are company-owned, the rest franchised.
The leg press is a weight training exercise in which the individual pushes a weight or प्रतिरोध away from them using their legs.
The term leg press also refers to the apparatus used to perform this exercise.
The leg press can be used to evaluate an athlete 's overall निम्नतर देह शक्ति ( from knee joint to hip ).
Using the तिर्यक sled-type leg press machine.
There are two main प्रकार of leg press:
The diagonal or vertical 'sled ' type leg दबायें.
Weight disks ( plates ) are attached directly to the sled, which is mounted on rails.
The user sits below the sled and pushes it upward साथ उनके feet.
These machines normally include adjustable safety brackets that prevent the user from being trapped under the weight.
The 'cable ' type leg press, or 'seated leg press ', commonly found on multigyms.
The user sits upright and pushes forward with their feet onto a plate that is attached to the weight stack by means of a long steel cable.
Wendy Williams Hunter ( born Wendy Joan Williams ; July 18, 1964 ) is an American मीडिया व्यक्तित्व, actress and author.
She hosts a syndicated television talk show, The Wendy विलियम्स Show.
Prior to television, Williams was a `` shock jockette `` on several radio shows.
Williams has gained notoriety लिये her on-air spats with celebrities.
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called The Wendy Williams Experience which ब्रॉडकास्ट कार्यक्रम surrounding her radio show.
She has written an autobiography and several other books, and has created a product line पुकारा Adorn by Wendy Williams.
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' speech पहले the हाउस of Burgesses in an 1851 painting by Peter F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty, or give me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to Patrick Henry from a speech he made to the वर्जिनिया Convention.
On that day, at St. John 's Church in Richmond, Virginia, and is credited with having swung the balance in convincing the Virginia House of Burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War.
among the delegates to the सम्मेलन यहूद भविष्य us राष्ट्रपतियों थामस जेफरसन और जार्ज वॉशिंगटन.
Newfoundland and labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada.
Situated in the country 's Atlantic region, it incorporates the द्वीप of Newfoundland and mainland Labrador to the northwest, with a combined area of.
In 2011, the province 's population was 514,536.
लगभग 92 percent of the province 's population lives on the Island of Newfoundland ( including its associated smaller islands ), of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula.
The province is Canada 's सबसे linguistically homogenous, with 97.6 % of residents reporting English ( Newfoundland English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ;.
Historically, Newfoundland was also home to unique varieties of French, और आयरिश, as well as the now-extinct Beothuk language.
in labrador, लोकल dialects of innu-aimun और inuktitut हैं भी बोला.
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest city, St. John 's, is Canada 's 20th-largest Census Metropolitan Area, and is home to almost 40 percent of the province 's population.
St. John 's is the seat of government, home to the House of Assembly of Newfoundland and Labrador and the highest court in the jurisdiction, the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal.
A former colony and dominion of the United Kingdom, Newfoundland and Labrador became the tenth province to enter the Canadian Confederation on March 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
On December 6, 2001, an amendment was made to the संविधान of Canada to change the province 's official name to Newfoundland and Labrador.
In day-to-day conversation, however, Canadians generally still refer to the province itself as Newfoundland and to the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador.
थियोडोर `` T.R. ''
Roosevelt, Jr. ( ; October 27, 1858—January 6, 1919 ) थी the 26th President of the United States ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted for his exuberant personality, range of interests and achievements, and his leadership of the Progressive Movement, as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity.
He was a leader of the Republican Party and founder of the first incarnation of the short-lived Progressive ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
Before becoming President, he held offices at the city, राज्य, and federal levels.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, explorer, hunter, लेखक, और सिपाही हैं as much a part of his fame as any office he held as a politician.
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the United States in 1901, making him the youngest president ever ; he beat out the youngest निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष, John F. Kennedy, by only one year.
Roosevelt was also the first of only three sitting presidents to have won the नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार.
The Teddy bear is named after him, despite his contempt for being called `` Teddy ''.
Born into a wealthy family in New York City, Roosevelt was a sickly child who suffered from asthma and stayed at home studying natural history.
To overcome his physical weakness, he embraced a strenuous life.
Home-schooled, he became an eager student of nature.
He attended Harvard विश्वविद्यालयों, जहाँ he पढ़ाई biology, boxed and developed an interest in naval affairs.
In 1881, one year out of Harvard, he was elected to the New York State Assembly, where he became a leader of the reform faction of his Republican Party ( the `` GOP '' ).
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his professional reputation as a serious historian ; he wrote numerous books on hunting, the outdoors, and current political issues, as well as frontier history.
In 1884, his first wife और उसके mother died on the same day.
He temporarily left politics and went to the frontier, बनने a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to New York City, he ran for mayor in 1886, finishing third with 60,000 votes.
He बाद gained fame by taking vigorous charge of the city police.
At the national level, he was a leader in civil service सुधार.
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898 while Roosevelt was, effectively, running the Department of the Navy.
He promptly resigned and formed the Rough Riders – a volunteer cavalry regiment that fought in Cuba.
The war hero was elected governor in 1898 और in 1900 was nominated for vice president.
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect President William McKinley on a platform of high tariffs, the सुनहरा मानक, साम्राज्यवाद, prosperity at home and victory abroad.
In 1901, President William McKinley was assassinated and Roosevelt became अध्यक्ष.
He attempted to move the Republican Party ( GOP ) toward Progressivism, including trust busting and increased regulation of businesses.
रूज़वेल्ट became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his predecessor, winning the largest percentage of the popular vote since the uncontested election of 1820.
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe his domestic agenda, emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies.
As an outdoorsman and naturalist, he promoted the संरक्षण movement.
On the world stage, Roosevelt 's policies were characterized by his स्लोगन, `` Speak softly and carry a big stick ``.
A cousin is a relative with whom a person साझा एक or अधिक आम पूर्वज ( s ) ( other than a parent, child/descendant, sibling, child/descendant of a sibling, or sibling of a parent/ancestor ).
However in common parlance, `` cousin '' normally specifically means `` first cousin ''.
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' are used in the english-speaking world to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the broad sense ) and the ancestor they have in common.
Various governmental entities have established प्रणालियों लिये विधिक उपयोग कि can अधिक precisely बताएँ kinships साथ आम पूर्वजो मौजूदा कोई क्रमांक of पीढियां in the पास्ट, हालांकि आम उपयोग प्रायः eliminates the डिग्री और removals और refers to लोगों साथ आम ancestry as बस `` दूर cousins '' or `` रिश्तेदारों ''.
वेबस्टर is an अमरीकी हालात कॉमेडी कि aired on एबीसी इससे सितंबर 16, 1983 जबतक may 8, 1987, और in first-run अनुप्रयोग इससे सितंबर 21, 1987 जबतक कूच 10, 1989.
The series was created by Stu Silver.
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who, after losing his parents, is adopted by his NFL -pro godfather, portrayed by Alex Karras, and उसके नई socialite बीवी, played by Susan Clark.
The focus थी largely on how this impulsively married couple had to adjust to their new lives and sudden parenthood, but it was the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot.
The series was produced by Georgian Bay Ltd., Emmanuel Lewis Entertainment उद्यमों, Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television.
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes, Webster featured a young African-American boy adopted by a white family.
तीन types of cell division
Cell division is the process by which a parent cell divides into two or अधिक बेटी cells.
Cell division usually occurs as part of a larger cell cycle.
In eukaryotes, there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative division, whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical to the parent cell ( mitosis ), and a reductive cell division, whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half, to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ).
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in their life cycle, and both are believed to be present in the last eukaryotic common ancestor Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission, where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells.
All cell divisions, regardless of सजीव, हैं preceded by a single round of DNA replication.
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba, one cell division is equivalent to जनन – an entire new organism is created.
On a larger scale, mitotic cell division can create progeny from multicellular organisms, such as plants that grow इससे cuttings.
Cell division also enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop from the one-celled zygote, which itself was produced by cell division from gametes.
And after growth, cell division allows for continual construction and repair of the सजीव.
A human being 's body experiences about 10,000 trillion cell divisions in a lifetime.
Cell division has been modeled by परिमित subdivision rules.
The primary concern of cell division is the maintenance of the original cell 's genome.
Before division can occur, the genomic information that is stored in chromosomes must be replicated, and the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells.
A great deal of cellular infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information सतत between `` generations ''.
Mountain सीमाएँ of Massachusetts, United States.
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones, 23 February 1955, southampton, हैम्पशायर, इंग्लैण्ड ) is a British musician, singer and songwriter.
According to the Guinness Book of British Hit Singles & Albums, `` Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop.
Jones, who was equally लोकप्रिय in the U.S., appeared at Live Aid ``.
Allmusic journalist, Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds, `` Jones was one of the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop.
His music merged the technology intensive sound of New Wave with the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop.
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s, before he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s ''.
The International Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a motorcycle racing event held on the आइल of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world.
The event was part of the FIM मोटरसाइकिल ग्रैंड प्रिक्स संसार चैंपियनशिप during the period 1949–1976 before being transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season.
The आइल of man tt दौड़ became भाग of the tt सूत्र 1 चैंपियनशिप इससे 1977 to 1990 to बचाना the इवेंट 's रेसिंग औकात.
From 1989 the racing has been विकसित by the Isle of Man Department of Tourism as the Isle of Man TT Festival.
The race is run in a time-trial format on public roads closed for racing by the provisions of an Act of Tynwald ( the parliament of the आइल of man ).
The first race was held on Tuesday 28 May 1907 और थी पुकारा the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy.
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 laps of the St John 's Short Course of 15 miles 1,470 yards for road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals and mud-guards.
The winner of the single-cylinder class, and overall winner of the first event in 1907, was Charlie Collier riding a Matchless motorcycle in a time of 4 hours, 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average रेस गति of 38.21 mph.
The विजेता of the twin-cylinder क्लास थी rem fowler सवारी a peugeot एंजिन नॉर्टन in a समय of 4 घंटों 21 मिनट्स और 52 सेकेंड at an औसत रेस गति of 36.21 किमी.
The ट्रॉफी presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race, was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars.
It featured a stylised संस्करण of Olympic God Hermes by Giovanni Da Bologna as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel.
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy presented to John Napier ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural winner of the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy car race in 1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy.
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars Trophy is now presented annually to the winner of the आइल of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between 26 May and 8 June 2007 and featured a special Re-enactment of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
The vintage parade of 100 classic motorcycles for the Centenary Re-enactment on the original st जॉन 's Short Course was flagged away by former World Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke.
The first of the participants to be flagged away was the recently restored twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first Isle of Man TT Race in 1907.
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy Martin riding a 1938 triumph Tiger 100 500 cc and other former TT competitors including Alan Cathcart, Sammy Miller, Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap.
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs when people are without work and actively seeking work.
the बेरोजगारी रेट is a माप of the व्यापकता of बेरोजगारी और it is गणना as a प्रतिशत by dividing the क्रमांक of बेरोजगार individuals by सब individuals फिलहाल in the मजदूर फ़ोर्स.
During periods of recession, an economy usually experiences a relatively high unemployment rate.
According to International Labour Organization report, more than 197 million people globally are out of work or 6 % of the संसार 's workforce were without a job in 2012.
There remains considerable theoretical debate regarding the कल्याणकारी, consequences and solutions for unemployment.
शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्र, नई शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्र, और the आस्ट्रिया स्कूल of अर्थशास्त्र argue कि मार्केट mechanisms हैं विश्वसनीय अर्थात् of resolving बेरोजगारी.
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside, such as unionization, minimum wage laws, taxes, and other regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers.
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment and recommends government interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions.
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce aggregate demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers.
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers ; these can include financial stimuli, publicly funded job creation, and expansionist monetary policies.
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment, there are a few categorizations of बेरोजगारी कि हैं used to more precisely model the effects of unemployment within the economic system.
The main types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets, including a mismatch between the supply and demand of laborers with necessary skill sets.
Structural arguments emphasize causes and समाधान सम्बन्धित to disruptive technologies and globalization.
Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to work based on each individuals ' valuation of their own work and how that compares to current wage rates plus the time and effort required to find a job.
Causes and solutions for frictional बेरोजगारी often address job entry threshold and wage rates.
Behavioral economists highlight individual biases in decision making, and often involve problems and solutions concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages.
Collectivism is any philosophic, political, religious, economic, or सोशल आउटलुक कि emphasizes the interdependence of every human being in a society or civilization.
collectivism is a मौलिक सांस्कृतिक तत्व कि exists as the रिवर्स of व्यक्तिगत in इंसान प्रकृति ( in the वही रास्ता ऊँची कॉन्टेक्स्ट संस्कृति exists as the रिवर्स of कम कॉन्टेक्स्ट संस्कृति ).
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion within social groups ( such as an `` in-group '', in what specific context it is defined ) and in some cases, the priority of group goals over individual goals.
Collectivists often focus on community, society, nation or country.
it रै महरूम प्रयुक्त as an तत्व in अनेक अलग और विविध प्रकार of सरकारी और राजनैतिक, आर्थिक और शैक्षणिक तत्त्वज्ञान throughout इतिहास और सबसे इंसान समाजों in अभ्यास contain तत्व of दोनो व्यक्तिगत और collectivism.
Some examples of collectivist cultures include India and Japan.
Collectivism can be विभाजित into horizontal collectivism and vertical collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals, and is thus usually based on decentralization and egalitarianism.
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power and on moral and cultural conformity, and is therefore based on centralization and hierarchy.
A cooperative enterprise would be an example of horizontal collectivism, whereas a military hierarchy would be an example of vertical collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) is an प्रतिरक्षा mediated disease of the brain.
It usually occurs following a viral infection but may appear following टीकाकरण, bacterial or parasitic infection, or even appear spontaneously.
As it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is similar to अनेक sclerosis, and is considered part of the Multiple sclerosis borderline diseases.
The incidence rate is about 8 per 1,000,000 people प्रति year.
Although it occurs in all ages, most reported cases are in children and adolescents, with the average age around 5 to 8 years old.
The mortality rate may be as high as 5 %, full recovery is seen in 50 to 75 % of cases, while up to 70 to 90 % recover with some minor residual disability.
The average समय to recover is one to six months.
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord, particularly in the white matter.
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white matter and cortical gray-white junction of both cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, and spinal cord, but periventricular white matter and gray matter of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved.
When the patient suffers more than one demyelinating episode, it is called recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ).
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestion system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract in some animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
It is involved in the second phase of digestion, following mastication ( chewing ).
The पेट is located between the esophagus and the small intestine.
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called protease and strong acids to aid in food digestion, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the छोटी intestines.
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately इससे stoma ( ), `` mouth ''.
The words gastro- and gastric ( meaning related to the stomach ) are both derived from the Greek word gaster ( ).
1940 Pontiac Special Series 25 woodie
A woodie is a car body style, especially a station वैगन, where the rear bodywork is constructed of wood framework with infill panels of wood or painted metal.
After the demise of actual wood construction, manufacturers used simulated woodgrain sheet vinyl—sometimes augmented with three-dimensional, simulated framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, wood construction was evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex with a series of side and rear horizontal grooves.
A pearl is a hard object produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc.
बस जैसे the shell of a clam, a pearl is made up of calcium carbonate in minute crystalline form, which has been deposited in concentric layers.
The ideal pearl is perfectly round and smooth, but many other आकार of मोती ( baroque pearls ) occur.
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and objects of beauty for many centuries, and क्युकी of इस, the word pearl has become a metaphor for something very rare, fine, admirable, and valuable.
The most valuable pearls occur spontaneously in the wild, but they are extremely rare.
These wild pearls हैं referred to as natural pearls.
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels make up the majority of those कि हैं फिलहाल sold.
Imitation pearls are also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry, but the quality of their iridescence is usually very poor, and often, artificial pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls.
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated primarily for use in jewelry, but in the past they were also stitched onto lavish clothing.
Pearls have also been crushed and used in cosmetics, medicines, and in paint formulations.
Whether wild or cultured, gem quality pearls are almost always nacreous and, as is the interior of the shell that produces them.
However, almost all species of shelled molluscs are capable of producing pearls ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape.
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also under U.S. Federal Trade Commission rules, and are formed in the same way, most of them have no value, except as curiosities.
bing ( ज्ञात previously as सजीव ढूंढें, खिड़कियाँ सजीव ढूंढें, और एमएसएन ढूंढें ) is a वेब ढूंढें इंजन ( advertised as a `` निर्णय इंजन `` ) इससे microsoft.
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on May 28, 2009 at the All Things Digital conference in सैन डिएगो लिये रिलीज on June 1.
notable changes include the listing of search suggestions while queries are entered and a list of related searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
On July 29, 2009, Microsoft and Yahoo ! announced a deal in which Bing होता शक्ति याहू ! ढूंढें.
All Yahoo ! Search global customers and partners हैं अपेक्षित to have made the transition by early 2012.
In October 2011, Bing announced it was working on new back-end search infrastructure, with the goal of delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users.
ज्ञात as `` बाघ '', the new index-serving technology has been incorporated into Bing globally, since August 2011.
In May 2012, Bing announced another redesign of its search engine that includes `` Sidebar '', a social feature that searches users ' social networks for information relevant to the search query.
a आरेख showing an I Formation on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
in अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, प्रत्येक टोली रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the फ़ील्ड at एक समय.
the विशिष्ट भूमिका कि a खिलाड़ी takes on the फ़ील्ड is पुकारा उनके स्थिति.
Under the modern rules of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions, that is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the टोली साथ the ball, who is trying to score ), the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various specific positions exist depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : Airish fowk ) are an ethnic group who originate in Ireland, an island in northwestern Europe.
Ireland has been populated for around 9,000 years ( according to archaeological studies, see Prehistoric Ireland ).
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they are claimed to be descended from समूह ऐसे as the Nemedians, Fomorians, Fir Bolg, Tuatha Dé Danann and the Milesians.
Lebor Gabála Érenn, a book of आयरिश mythology tells that Milesians were Scythian descendants.
The main groups that interacted with the Irish in the Middle Ages include the Picts, Scots, and the Vikings.
due to this contact, Icelanders are noted for having some Irish descent.
The anglo-norman आक्रमण of the High Middle Ages, the English plantations and the subsequent English rule of the country introduced the Normans and Flemish into Ireland.
Welsh, Picts, Bretons, and small parties of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons are known in Ireland from much earlier times.
There have been many notable Irish people throughout इतिहास.
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as one of the `` fathers of Europe '', followed by Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg.
The scientist Robert Boyle is माना the `` father of chemistry ``.
Famous Irish explorers शामिल ब्रेंडन the Navigator, Robert McClure, Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean.
By कुछ खाते, the पहला यूरोपीय child born in North America had Irish descent on both sides ; and an Irishman was the first European to set foot on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There are descendants of Irish people living in many western countries, particularly in english-speaking देशों.
historically, करणों रै महरूम caused by राजनीती, अकाल और आर्थिक मुद्दे.
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are descendants of Irish people, primarily in the United Kingdom, the United राज्य, Australia, Canada and Iceland ; there are also smaller numbers in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Jamaica, Barbados, South Africa, New Zealand, France, Germany and Brazil.
The largest number of descendants of Irish people live in the संयुक्त States.
The number of people living in Australia who are of Irish descent is higher, as a percentage of total population, than that of any other country.
Approximately forty percent of the settlement population of Iceland came from Ireland or Scotland.
The very first inhabitants of Iceland were Irish.
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that was carried into orbit by a Space Shuttle in 1990 and remains in आपरेशन.
A aperture telescope in low Earth orbit, Hubble 's four main यंत्र observe in the near ultraviolet, visible, and near infrared.
The telescope is named after the astronomer Edwin Hubble.
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's atmosphere allows it to take extremely sharp images with लगभग no पृष्ठभूमि light.
Hubble 's Deep Field have been some of the most विस्तृत visible-light images ever, allowing a deep view into space and time.
Many Hubble observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics, such as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe.
Although not the first space telescope, Hubble is one of the largest and most versatile, and is well known as both a vital research tool and a public relations boon for astronomy.
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA, with contributions from the European Space Agency, and is operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute.
The HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories, along with the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, the Chandra X-ray Observatory, and the Spitzer Space Telescope.
Space telescopes were proposed as early as 1923.
Hubble was funded in the 1970s, with a proposed launch in 1983, but the project was beset by technical देरी, बजट समस्याएं, और the चैलेंजर disaster.
When finally launched in 1990, scientists found that the main mirror had been ground incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's capabilities.
The telescope was restored to its intended quality by a servicing mission in 1993.
Hubble is the only दूरदर्शी designed to be serviced in space by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four missions repaired, upgraded, and replaced systems on the telescope ; a fifth mission was रद्द on सुरक्षा grounds following the Columbia disaster.
However, after spirited public discussion, NASA administrator Mike Griffin approved one final servicing mission, completed in 2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis.
The telescope is now expected to function until at least 2013.
Its scientific successor, the James Webb Space दूरदर्शी ( JWST ), is to be launched in 2018 or possibly later.
Anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a substance or treatment that reduces inflammation.
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up about half of analgesics, remedying pain by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids, which affect the सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली.
The Tonight Show is a US late-night talk show that has aired on NBC since 1954.
It is the longest फिलहाल running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the US and the third longest-running show on NBC after Meet the Press and Today.
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ), Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ), जॉनी Carson ( 1962–1992 ), Jay Leno ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ).
अनेक अतिथि होस्ट भी appeared, विशेषकर दौरान the paar और कार्सन eras.
The longest-serving host to date was Johnny Carson, who hosted The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The current host of the show is Jay Leno, who had previously hosted the दिखाएँ from 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1, 2010.
On April 3, 2013, NBC announced Jimmy Fallon would become the new host of The Tonight Show.
The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon will premiere February 24, 2014, the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 शीत Olympics.
SS एंड्रिया Doria.
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in Genoa, Italy, most famous for its sinking in 1956, when 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ).
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria, the ship had a gross register tonnage of 29,100 and a capacity of about 1,200 passengers and 500 crew.
For a country attempting to rebuild its economy and reputation after World War II, Andrea Doria was an icon of Italian national pride.
Of all Italy 's ships at the time, Andrea Doria was the largest, fastest और supposedly safest.
Launched on 16 June 1951, the ship undertook its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953.
On 25 July 1956, while the Andrea Doria was approaching the coast of Nantucket, Massachusetts, bound for New York City, the eastbound of the Swedish American Line collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters.
Struck in the side, the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately started to list severely to starboard, which left half of its lifeboats unusable.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant loss of life, but the efficiency of the ship 's तकनीकी डिज़ाइन अनुमत it to stay afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming.
The good behavior of the crew, improvements in संचार and the rapid response of other ships averted a disaster similar in scale to that of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and survived, while 46 लोगों died as a consequence of the collision.
The evacuated लक्ज़री liner capsized and sank the following morning.
This accident remains the worst मेरीटाइम विपत्ति to occur in United States waters since the sinking of the in 1915.
The incident and its aftermath were heavily covered by the news media.
While the rescue efforts were both successful और commendable, the कारण of the collision with the Stockholm and the loss of Andrea Doria generated much interest in the media and many lawsuits.
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between the two shipping companies during hearings immediately after the disaster, no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published.
Although वृहद blame appeared initially to fall on the Italian liner, more recent discoveries have indicated that a misreading of radar on the Swedish ship may have initiated the collision course, leading to errors on both ships.
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic passenger vessel to sink before aircraft became the preferred method of travel.
डायलिसिस tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable membrane tubing made from regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be used for diffusion with solutes or osmosis if used with water only.
परासरण is when water passes through a semi-permeable layer to reach equilibrium.
Diffusion, on the other hand, allows the movement of molecules from high विशेषज्ञता to low concentration.
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable membrane or layer if the molecule is small enough to fit through the झिल्ली or a झिल्ली 's pore.
This usually results with the effects of diffusion through a membrane only really affects small molecules, and almost never larger molecules.
Dialysis tubing is प्रयुक्त in नैदानिक हालातों to ensure a filtered flow of molecules, preventing the flow of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` washed '' out of a solution which is pumped through the tubing into a solvent, usually water, which surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes, a solution containing several types of molecules, usually glucose and starch, is placed into a semi-permeable dialysis bag, such as a cellulose membrane with pores, and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band.
The sealed डायलिसिस थैला is placed in a container of a different solution, or water.
Molecules small enough to pass through the tubing ( water, salts, monosaccharides, और other small molecules ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the direction of decreasing concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
Larger molecules ( such as proteins, or polysaccharides ) that have dimensions significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag.
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) will cross a semi-permeable membrane, like dialysis tubing, into a hypertonic solution ( a solution that has a higher solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) in an attempt to reach equilibrium, where the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium.
Mercury प्रयोगशाला thermometer
A थर्मामीटर ( इससे the यूनानी, thermos, अर्थ `` hot '' और μἐτρον, metron, `` माप '' ) is a यंत्र कि उपायों तापमान or तापमान अनुपात using a किस्में of अलग सिद्धान्त.
A thermometer has two important elements : the temperature sensor ( e.g. the bulb on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) in which some physical change occurs with temperature, plus some means of converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g. the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ).
There are many types and many uses for thermometers, as detailed नीचे in sections of this article.
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures.
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers grimm, it is the first full-length cel animated feature film and the earliest in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series.
The story was adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank, Richard Creedon, Merrill De मारिस, ओटो englander, Earl Hurd, Dick Rickard, Ted Sears and Webb Smith.
David Hand थी the supervising director, while William Cottrell, Wilfred Jackson, Larry Morey, Perce Pearce, and Ben Sharpsteen directed the film 's individual sequences.
हिम श्वेत premiered at the carthay वृत्त थिएटर on दिसम्बर 21, 1937, followed by a देशभर रिलीज on फ़रवरी 4, 1938, और साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय आय of $ 8 लाख दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज briefly assumed the रिकार्ड of उच्चतम grossing ध्वनि फिल्मी at the समय.
the लोकप्रियता of the फिल्मी रै led to it होने re-released theatrically अनेक टाइम्स, जबतक इसके घर वीडियो रिलीज in the 1990s.
Adjusted for inflation, it is one of the top ten performers at the North American box office.
At the 11th Academy Awards, Walt Disney was awarded an honorary Oscar, and the film was nominated for Best Musical Score.
It was added to the United States National Film Registry in 1989 and is ranked in the American Film Institute 's list of the 100 greatest American films, who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008.
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big सांस्कृतिक प्रभाव, resulting in a popular theme park attraction, a video game, and a Broadway musical.
Childbirth, labour, delivery, birth, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a pregnancy period with the expulsion of one or more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus.
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of श्रमिक : the shortening and dilation of the cervix, descent and birth of the infant, and birth of the placenta.
in अनेक मामले और साथ increasing आवृत्ति, प्रसव is हासिल through प्रेरण of मजदूर or caesarean खण्ड, जिससे is the हटाना of the neonate through a सर्जिकल incision in the उदर, बल्कि than through vaginal birth.
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S. from 1996 to 2006, and comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada.
With respect to induced labor, more than 22 % of women undergo induction of labour in the United States.
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be harmful to the fetus and neonate as well as harmful or without benefit to the mother, and have established strict दिशानिर्देश लिये non-medically indicated induced births और elective cesarean before 39 weeks.
चिरायु la bam थी an एमटीवी & चिरायु दिखाएँ जिससे followed bam margera और उसके क्रू as वे undertook चुनौतियां, performed स्टंट और traveled the संसार.
The show ran for 5 seasons between 2003 और 2005.
Flushed Away is a 2006 British/American computer animated action / adventure comedy film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell.
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations and DreamWorks Animation, and is Aardman 's first completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The film stars the voice talents of Hugh Jackman, Kate Winslet, Andy Serkis, Bill Nighy, Ian McKellen, Shane Richie and Jean Reno.
The story was by Sam Fell, Peter Lord, Dick Clement, and Ian La Frenais, and the screenplay was written by Dick Clement, Ian La Frenais, Christopher Lloyd, जो keenan, और विलियम Davies.
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006, and in UK on December 1 2006, and was distributed by Paramount Pictures, except for Switzerland, Spain, and the Netherlands, which were संभाला by Universal Pictures.
The Atlanta Braves are a professional baseball team based in अटलांटा.
The Braves are a member of the Eastern Division of Major League Baseball 's National League.
The Braves have played in Turner Field since 1997.
The `` Braves '' name, which was first used in 1912, originates from a term for a Native American warrior.
They are nicknamed `` the Bravos '', and often referred to as `` America 's Team `` in reference to the team 's games being broadcast on the nationally available TBS from the 1970s until 2007, gaining a wide fanbase.
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball, winning division titles an unprecedented 14 consecutive times in that period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in जिससे there were no official division champions ).
The Braves won the NL West 1991–93 and the NL East 1995–2005, and returned to the playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010.
The Braves advanced to the World Series पाँच टाइम्स in the 1990s, winning the title in 1995.
Since their debut in the National League in 1876, the franchise has won 16 divisional titles, 17 National League pennants, as well as three World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves, in 1957 as the मिल्वौकी braves, and in 1995 in Atlanta.
The Braves are the only MLB franchise to have won the World Series in तीन different home cities.
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other being the Chicago Cubs ) and was founded in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, in 1871 as the Boston Red Stockings ( not to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ).
They are considered `` the oldest continuously playing team in major North American sports. ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because although the Cubs are a full season `` older '' ( formed as the Chicago White Stockings in 1870 ) Chicago lost two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire, thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons.
After various name changes ( such as the Boston Beaneaters ), the team संचालित as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century.
In 1953, the team moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin and became the Milwaukee Braves, followed by the move to Atlanta in 1966.
The team 's tenure in अटलांटा is प्रसिद्ध लिये हांक आरोन तोड़कर बेब रुथ 's करियर घर चलाएं रिकार्ड in 1974, हालांकि the बहुमत of आरोन 's घर रनों यहूद hit जबकि the टोली थी in मिल्वौकी.
His record stood जबतक 2007, when San Francisco left fielder Barry Bonds broke the record.
the पत्ते of a beech पेड़
3D rendering of a μCT scan of a leaf piece, रेज़ोल्यूशन circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant, as defined in botanical terms, and in particular in संयंत्र morphology.
Foliage is a mass noun कि refers to leaves as a feature of plants.
Typically a leaf is a thin, flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis, but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat ( for example many succulent leaves and conifers ), some are not above ground ( such as bulb scales ), and some are without major photosynthetic function ( consider लिये example cataphylls, spines, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, many structures of non-vascular plants, or even of some lichens, which are not plants at all ( in the sense of being members of the kingdom Plantae ), do look and function much like leaves.
Furthermore, अनेक structures found in vascular plants look like leaves but are not actually leaves ; they differ from leaves in their structures and origins.
Examples include phyllodes, cladodes, and phylloclades.
शीर्षक कार्ड लिये the 1937 हमारी गिरोह कॉमेडी rushin ' बैले.
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of American comedy short films about a group of poor neighborhood children and their adventures.
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach, the series is noted for showing children behaving in a relatively natural way, as Roach and original director Robert F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected, raw nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles.
In addition, Our Gang notably put boys, girls, whites and blacks together in a group as equals, something that `` broke new ground, '' according to film इतिहासकार Leonard Maltin.
Such a thing had never been done before in cinema but has since been दोहराया बाद the success of Our Gang.
The first production at the रोच studio in 1922 was a series of silent short subjects.
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( MGM ) in 1927, and converted the series to sound in 1929, the series took बंद भी further.
Production जारी at the रोच स्टुडियो जबतक 1938, जब the श्रेणी थी बेची to mgm, जो तब जारी producing the comedies जबतक 1944.
The Our Gang series includes a total of 220 shorts and one feature film, General Spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang trademark following their purchase of the production rights, the 80 Roach-produced `` talkies '' were syndicated for television अंतर्गत the शीर्षक The Little Rascals beginning in 1955.
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package ( now owned by Warner Bros. Entertainment ) have since remained in syndication, with periodic new प्रोडक्शन्स आधारित on the शॉर्ट्स surfacing over the सालो, सहित a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures.
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias Jansen or Sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from Middelburg associated with the invention of the first optical telescope.
Janssen is sometimes also credited लिये inventing the first truly compound microscope.
However, the origin of the microscope, just like the origin of the telescope, is a पदार्थ of debate.
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater lake in the Sierra Nevada of the United States.
at a सतह उन्नयन of, it is स्तिथ साथ the किनारा between कैलिफ़ोर्निया और नेवाडा, वेस्ट of कार्सन नगर.
Lake Tahoe is the largest alpine lake in North America.
इसके गहराई is, बनाना it the संयुक्त राज्य 's second-deepest ( the deepest is crater झील in ऑरेगॉन, होने deeper, at ).
Additionally, Lake Tahoe is listed as the 26th largest lake by volume in the world at.
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a part of the Lake Tahoe Basin with the modern lake being shaped during the ice आयु.
It is known for the clarity of its water and the परिदृश्य of surrounding mountains on all sides.
The area surrounding the lake is also referred to as Lake Tahoe, or simply Tahoe.
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist attraction in both Nevada and California.
It is home to a number of ski resorts, गर्मियाँ outdoor recreation, and tourist attractions.
Snow and skiing are a significant part of the area 's economy and reputation.
Mountain and lake scenery are attractions throughout the year.
The Nevada side also शामिल large casinos.
Highways provide year-round access from रेनो, Carson City, and Sacramento.
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh amendment 's प्रमाणन in the National Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's certification
Page 3 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
the twenty-seventh amendment ( amendment xxvii ) prohibits कोई विधि कि increases or decreases the सैलरी of सदस्यों of the कॉंग्रेस इससे लेने प्रभाव जबतक the प्रारंभ of the अगला नियत of शर्तें of दफ्तर लिये प्रतिनिधि.
It is the most recent amendment to the United States Constitution.
It was submitted to the states for अनुसमर्थन in 1789 and was adopted in 1992.
“First they came... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) about the sloth of German intellectuals following the Nazis ' rise to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets, group after group.
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was created ; the सामग्री of the quotation may have been presented differently by Niemöller on different occasions.
इस list of islands by area includes all islands in the world greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) and several other islands over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending order by area.
For comparison, महाद्वीपों are also shown.
चार तिहाई logo
The Four Thirds system is a standard created by Olympus and कोडक लिये डिजिटल single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that, with digital cameras and lenses available from अनेक निर्माताओं, allows for the interchange of lenses and bodies from different manufacturers.
seems to cover the standard.
Proponents describe it as an open मानक, लकिन companies may only use it under a non-disclosure agreement.
Unlike older SLR systems, Four Thirds has been designed from the मैदान up to be entirely digital.
Many lenses are extensively computerized, to the point that ओलम्पस offers firmware updates for many of them.
Lens design has been tailored to the requirements of digital sensors, most notably through telecentric designs.
The size of the sensor is significantly smaller than लिये most DSLRs and this implies that lenses, especially telephoto lenses, can be smaller.
For example, a Four Thirds lens with a 300 mm focal length would cover about the same angle of view as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard, and is correspondingly more compact.
Thus, the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2, and while this enables longer focal length for वृहद magnification, it does n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses.
The image sensor format, generally intermediate between those of larger slrs and smaller compact cameras, generally gives levels of cost, performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes.
HVAC systems उपयोग वेंटिलेशन एयर नलिकाएं संस्थापित throughout a भवन to सप्लाई conditioned एयर to a रूम through आउटलेट vents, पुकारा diffusers ; और नलिकाएं to हटाएँ एयर through return-air grilles.
HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air conditioning ) is the प्रौद्योगिकी of indoor and automotive environmental comfort.
HVAC system design is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, based on the principles of thermodynamics, fluid यांत्रिकी, और ऊष्मा ट्रांसफ़र.
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR, or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such as the designation of HACR-rated circuit ब्रेकर्स ).
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments such as aquariums, where safe and healthy building conditions are regulated with respect to temperature and humidity, using fresh air from outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught system, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning is based on inventions and discoveries made by Nikolay Lvov, Michael Faraday, Willis Carrier, Reuben trane, जेम्स जूल, विलियम Rankine, Sadi Carnot, and many others.
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand साथ the औद्योगिक revolution, and new methods of modernization, higher efficiency, and system control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide.
The three central functions of heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning are interrelated, विशेषकर साथ the need to provide thermal comfort and acceptable indoor air quality within reasonable installation, operation, and maintenance costs.
HVAC systems can provide ventilation, reduce air infiltration, and maintain pressure relationships between spaces.
The means of air delivery and removal from spaces is known as room एयर वितरण.
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both for cooling and heating depends on the exterior climate and आंतरिक specified conditions.
However before taking up the heat load गणना, it is necessary to find fresh air requirements for each area in detail, as pressurization is an important consideration.
In modern buildings the design, installation, and control प्रणालियों of ये functions are integrated into one or more HVAC systems.
For very small इमारतें, contractors normally capacity engineer and select HVAC systems and equipment.
For larger buildings, building services designers and engineers, such as mechanical, architectural, or building services engineers analyze, design, and specify the HVAC systems, and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them.
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the installations are normally required for all sizes of buildings.
The HVAC industry is a worldwide enterprise, with roles including operation and maintenance, प्रणाली design and construction, equipment manufacturing and sales, and in education and research.
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC equipment, but regulating and standards organizations such as HARDI, ASHRAE, SMACNA, ACCA, Uniform Mechanical Code, International Mechanical Code, and AMCA have been established to support the industry and encourage high मानकों और उपलब्धि.
Royal Navy Commander James Bond, CMG, RNVR, is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित by अंग्रेजों पत्रकार and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
He is the protagonist of the जेम्स Bond series of novels, films, comics and video games.
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two short story collections before his death, although the last two books— The Man साथ the सुनहरी गन और octopussy और The Living Daylights —were published posthumously.
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent, code number 007, residing in London but active internationally.
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew during his service in the Naval प्रज्ञा प्रभाग दौरान संसार युद्ध ii, to जिसको Fleming added his own style and a number of his own tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American ornithologist James Bond.
बंध रै a क्रमांक of अक्षर traits which run throughout the books, including an enjoyment of cars, a love of food and drink, and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day.
Since Fleming 's death in 1964, there have been other authorised writers of Bond material, including John Gardner, who wrote चौदह novels and two novelizations and Raymond Benson, who wrote six novels, three novelizations and three short stories.
There have भी महरूम तीन authors who wrote one book each, Kingsley Amis ( writing as Robert Markham ), Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver.
Additionally a series of novels based on Bond 's youth— Young Bond —was लिखा by Charlie Higson.
As spin-offs from the literary works, there was a television adaptation of the first novel, Casino Royale, in which Bond was played as an American agent.
A comic strip series also ran in the Daily Express समाचारपत्र.
There have also been twenty-five Bond films ; seven actors have played Bond in these films.
`` प्रकृति लड़के '' is a सोंग by ईडन ahbez, प्रकाशित in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy... who wandered very far '' only to learn that `` the महानतम thing... was just to love and be loved in return ''.
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song was a major hit and `` Nature लड़के '' रै since become a pop and jazz standard, with dozens of major artists interpreting the song.
louisiana ( or ;, ; louisiana क्रियोल : léta de la lwizyàn ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in the दक्षिणी प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
Louisiana is the 31st most extensive and the 25th most populous of the 50 United States.
Its capital is baton रूज and largest city is New Orleans.
louisiana is the तभी राज्य in the u.S. साथ राजनैतिक subdivisions termed parishes, जिससे हैं लोकल सरकारी 's समतुल्य to counties.
The largest parish by population is East Baton Rouge Parish, and the largest by land area is Cameron Parish.
Much of the state 's lands were formed from sediment washed down the मिसिसिपी नदी, leaving विशाल deltas और vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp.
These contain a rich southern biota ; typical examples include birds such as ibis and egrets.
There are also many species of tree frogs, and fish such as sturgeon and paddlefish.
In more elevated areas, fire is a natural process in the landscape, and has produced extensive areas of longleaf पाइन वन and wet savannas.
ये support an exceptional large number of plant species, including many species of orchids and carnivorous plants.
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural, multilingual heritage, being so strongly influenced by an admixture of 18th-century French, Spanish, Native American ( Indian ) and African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
Before the American purchase of the territory, the current Louisiana State had been दोनो a Spanish and French colony.
In addition, the pattern of development included importing numerous African slaves in the 18th century, with many from the same region of West Africa, thus concentrating their culture.
In the post-Civil War environment, Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for anglicization, और in 1915, English was made the only official language of the state.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for women and girls of many societies worldwide.
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, लोकल कस्टम, और आचरण, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
The laws of science or scientific laws are statements that describe, भविष्यवाणी, and perhaps explain why, a range of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature.
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate, accurate, broad or narrow theories, in all natural scientific disciplines ( physics, chemistry, biology, geology, astronomy etc. ).
An analogous पद for a scientific law is a principle.
Scientific विधिs:
summarize a large collection of facts संकल्पित by experiment into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation, or at least stated in a single sentence, so that it can be used to predict the outcome of an experiment, given the initial, boundary, and other physical conditions of the processes which take place,
हैं strongly समर्थित by अनुभवजन्य प्रमाण - वे हैं वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान कि प्रयोग have repeatedly सत्यापित ( और never falsified ).
उनके सटीकता करता not change when new theories are worked out, but rather the scope of application, since the equation ( if any ) representing the law does not change.
As with other scientific knowledge, they do not have absolute certainty like mathematical theorems or identities, and it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations.
are प्रायः quoted as a fundamental controlling influence rather than a description of observed facts.
I.e. `` the कानून of motion require that ''
Laws differ इससे hypotheses and postulates, which are proposed during the scientific process before and during validation by experiment and observation.
These are not laws since they have not been verified to the same degree and may not be sufficiently general, although they may lead to the formulation of laws.
A law is a more solidified and formal statement, distilled from repeated experiment.
हालांकि the अवधारणाओं of a विधि or principle in प्रकृति is borderline to दर्शनशास्त्र, और presents the गहराई to जिससे गणित can describe प्रकृति, वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं माना इससे a वैज्ञानिक परिप्रेक्ष्य और follow the वैज्ञानिक विधि ; वे `` serve उनके purpose '' बल्कि than `` questioning वास्तविकता '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For example, whether a law `` refers to reality '' is a philosophical issue, बल्कि than scientific.
Fundamentally, all scientific laws follow from physics, laws which occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws.
Often, from mathematically आधारभूत viewpoints, सार्वभौमिक constants emerge from scientific laws.
The launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on 10 November 2006 marked the second major seventh generation entertainment system to be released.
The system was released seven days बाद on 17 November in the United States.
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray disc player ; the device was launched in European and other world markets in the first half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore baldwin ( formerly विलियम्स और grainger ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the सीबीएस साबुन operas the यंग और the बेचैन और the बिंदास और the खूबसूरत, portrayed by ट्रेसी E. bregman.
She made her debut during the episode airing on January 21, 1983.
In 1992, Bregman began making sporadic appearances on The Bold and the Beautiful, later resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995.
Following a अतिथि appearance in 2000, Bregman returned to The Young and the Restless on August 24, 2001, remaining on recurring status.
In 2013, it was announced that Bregman had been placed on contract.
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams, Scott Grainger, Sr., and Michael Baldwin among many others causing a fierce rivalry with Traci Abbott Connolly.
Lauren is also famous for her long, violent rivalry with शीला Carter.
The 2010 NBA Finals थी the नेशनल Basketball Association ( NBA ) championship series for the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the Los Angeles Lakers, champions of the Western Conference and defending NBA champions, and the Boston Celtics, champions of the Eastern Conference.
The Lakers defeated the Celtics, four games to three, to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th edition of the championship series was played between June 3 and जून 17, थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on ABC, and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people.
The Celtics अर्जित उनके berth into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic Division.
The Lakers won the Pacific Division to earn their berth.
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the मियामी ऊष्मा in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference First Round, the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals, and defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals.
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder in the best-of-seven Western Conference First Round, the Utah Jazz in the best-of-seven Western Conference Semifinals, and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals.
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game format, with the Lakers possessing home-court advantage as a reward for finishing with better regular season record than the Celtics.
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant, Pau Gasol, and Ron Artest brought the लेकर्स close to victory in Game 1.
A record breaking performance from Ray Allen 's eight three-point baskets ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 points in the fourth quarter helped the लेकर्स win Game 3.
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s reserves, while Paul Pierce led the team to a Game 5 win with 27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor.
The Lakers avoided elimination by winning a decisive Game 6 साथ 24 points contributed by their bench.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter, the Lakers rallied and won their second consecutive championship by taking over an exciting Game 7 aided by late contributions on offense by Pau Gasol and Artest and rebounding.
Bryant was named Most Valuable Player of the Finals for his second consecutive trophy.
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven games since and only the fourth since the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in.
The Laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships ( Five in Minneapolis, 11 in Los एंजिल्स ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships.
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis defeated the New York Knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 Minneapolis defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3.
The NBA would return to the 2–2–1–1–1 National हॉकी लीग seven game series format until 1985.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, cultivated for its फल, जिससे is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, ज्ञात as a peppercorn when dried, is approximately in diameter, dark red when fully mature, and, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
peppercorns, और the मैदान pepper निकला इससे उन्हें, may be वर्णित बस as pepper, or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( पकाया और सूखी unripe फल ), ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल ) और श्वेत pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the संसार 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has been used चूंकि antiquity for both its flavour and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's most traded spice.
It is एक of the सबसे आम spices added to European cuisine and its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be confused with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the आधुनिक world, often paired with salt.
in cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the आयतनी भिन्न of रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( दिल ) साथ प्रत्येक दिल ताल or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical अभिव्यक्ति धमक EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a mathematical product अनुमत by हृदय imaging.
As a mathematical term, Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively allowed clinically relevant गणित regarding Ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of the prosecution in countries with either the common law adversarial system, or the सिविल विधि inquisitorial system.
The prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting the मामला in a criminal trial against an individual accused of breaking the law.
Strawberry shortcake most commonly अर्थात् a मिठाई in the shortcake family of cakes.
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake may also refer to:
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake, a अक्षर और मताधिकार निर्मित by अमरीकी बधाई
The shortened title of Strawberry on the shortcake, a Japanese romance movie.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), also transliterated as Muhammad ( ), was a religious, political, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is almost universally considered by Muslims as the last prophet sent by परमेश्वर लिये mankind.
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an अनछुए original monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was orphaned at an early age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib.
He later worked mostly as a merchant, as well as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God, in the वही vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly.
To escape persecution, Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
इस इवेंट, the हिज्र, marks the शुरूआत of the इस्लामी पंचांग, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as the hijri पंचांग.
in मदीना, मुहम्मद संयुक्त the जनजातियों अंतर्गत the संविधान of मदीना.
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes, his followers, who by then had grown to 10,000, took कंट्रोल of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few months after returning to Medina from The Farewell यात्राएं, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the समय of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam, and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity.
The revelations ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the आयतें of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) हैं also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and अन्य नबियों of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
The Great Books ( second संस्करण )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally published in the United States in 1952 by ब्रिटैनिका विश्वकोष inc. to present the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes.
The श्रेणी is now in its second edition and contains 60 volumes.
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to contemporary issues, and not only important in its historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas, '' relevant to at तनिक 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors.
Books were not chosen on the basis of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness, historical influence, or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a song written and recorded by JJ Cale in 1976, but also known as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton.
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly popular hits '' and notes that `` even for an artist like Clapton with a huge body of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best. ''
Glyn Johns, who had previously worked with The Who, Led Zeppelin and The Rolling Stones, produced the Clapton recording, which was released on Clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
The live version of `` Cocaine '', from the Just One Night album recorded in Tokyo, charted on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 as the B-side of `` Tulsa Time ``, which was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
कोका '' was one of several of Cale 's songs recorded by Clapton, including `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light ''.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive कार्रवाई in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters, bombers and torpedo planes in two waves, launched from six aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. Navy battleships were damaged, with four being sunk.
Two of these were later raised, and with the remaining four repaired, six battleships returned to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. वायुयान were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the submarine piers and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked.
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen मारे or wounded.
One जापानी sailor was captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters.
The following day ( December 8 ), the United States declared war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, which had been strong, disappeared.
clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( लिये उदाहरण the neutrality पैट्रोल ) थी replaced by क्रियाशील गठबंधन.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the u.S. on दिसम्बर 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents for unannounced military action by Japan.
However, the कमी of कोई औपचारिक चेतावनी, विशेषकर while negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of Bravo 's successful Project Runway, a reality प्रतियोगिता for fashion designers.
Season 2 began airing on December 7, 2005.
Following a nationwide search earlier in the year, sixteen designers यहूद चुनी as semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June, 2005.
बाद the पहला चुनौती, पुकारा `` सड़क to the रनवे '', चौदह गई on to compete as finalists.
The winning पंक्तियां, Chloe Dao, received $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch her own line, a 2007 Saturn Sky roadster, a spread in ELLE magazine, and a mentorship with the Banana Republic Design Team.
Winning alongside Dao was her model, Grace Kelsey, who received the ELLE Magazine spread.
Michael kors and Nina Garcia returned as judges for the second season.
The fourth judging seat rotated each week, based on the चुनौती.
Tim gunn, फ़ैशन कुर्सी at Parsons The New School for Design, returned as a mentor for the designers.
Kara Janx later appeared in Project Runway : All Stars in 2012, where she finished 7th out of 13.
Andrae Gonzalo, in the same year, competed in the दूसरी season of the All Stars edition placing 10th out of 13.
An example of a Heraclius mule
In numismatics, a mule is a coin or medal minted with obverse and reverse designs not normally seen on the same piece.
These can be intentional or उत्पादित by गलती.
This type of error is highly sought after, and examples can fetch steep prices from collectors.
The earliest mules are found among ancient Greek and Roman coins.
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental, the result of an incorrect combination of a new die with one that had officially been withdrawn from use, or the work of coiners working with dies stolen from an official mint, perhaps at a time when one of them should have been destroyed.
the नाम गर्भाशयी इससे the खच्चर, the संकर औलाद of a घोड़ा और a गधा, due to ऐसे a सिक्का having दो पहलू intended लिये अलग सिक्के, much as a खच्चर रै अभिभावक of दो अलग species.
This page documents the tornadoes and tornado outbreaks of 2010.
The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S., but they can occur almost anywhere under the right conditions.
A lesser number occur outside the U.S., most notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada during the Northern Hemisphere 's summer season, but are also known in South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United States in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were confirmed ), with 45 confirmed fatalities.
elsewhere in the संसार, 11 लोगों यहूद मारे in tornadoes, छह in अर्जेंटीना, तीन in the बहामा, एक in बांग्लादेश, और एक in जर्मनी.
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring period, however such changed after a huge upswing starting in late April and a busy late spring and summer period.
The autumn months were slightly above average.
A lymphocyte is a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त cell in the vertebrate immune system.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells.
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's task automation framework, consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting language built on.NET Framework.
powershell provides full access to COM and WMI, enabling administrators to perform administrative tasks on both local and remote Windows systems.
In PowerShell, administrative tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ), which are specialized.NET classes implementing a particular operation.
Sets of cmdlets may be संयुक्त together in scripts, executables ( which are standalone applications ), or by instantiating regular.NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ).
These work by accessing data in different data stores, like the filesystem or registry, which are made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers.
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting API with which the खिड़कियाँ powershell runtime can be embedded inside other applications.
These applications can then use Windows PowerShell functionality to implement certain operations, including those exposed via the आलेखीय इंटरफ़ेस.
इस काबिलियत रै महरूम प्रयुक्त by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as PowerShell cmdlets and providers and implement the graphical management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets.
Other Microsoft applications including Microsoft SQL Server 2008 भी expose their management interface via PowerShell cmdlets.
With PowerShell, graphical interface-based प्रबन्धन अनुप्रयोग on Windows are layered on top of Windows PowerShell.
A PowerShell एनक्रिप्शन interface for Windows products is mandated by the Common Engineering Criteria.
Windows PowerShell includes its own extensive, console-based help, similar to man pages in Unix shells, via the Get-Help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews, Dick Van Dyke, David Tomlinson, and Glynis Johns, produced by Walt Disney, and based on the Mary Poppins books series by P. L. Travers.
The film was directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill Walsh and Don dagradi, साथ गीतों by the Sherman Brothers.
It was shot at Walt Disney Studios in burbank, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
जूली एंड्रयूज जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन as मरियम poppins और the फिल्मी भी जीती ऑस्कर लिये बेहतरीन फिल्मी संपादन, असली म्यूज़िक स्कोर, बेहतरीन सोंग लिये `` chim chim cher-ee '' और बेहतरीन विज़ुअल प्रभाव, और प्राप्त a total of 13 nominations.
A स्टोरी चाप is an विस्तारित or continuing कथानक in episodic storytelling मीडिया ऐसे as टेलीविज़न, कॉमिक किताबे, कॉमिक स्ट्रिप्स, boardgames, वीडियो खेल, और in कुछ मामले, films.
On a television program, for example, the story would unfold over अनेक episodes.
In television, the use of the story arc is much more common in dramas than in comedies, especially in soap operas.
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than newspaper comics, as most web comics have readable archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on.
Although story arcs have existed for decades, the term `` story arc '' was coined in 1988 in relation to the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी Wiseguy, and was quickly adapted for other uses.
Many American comic book series are now written in four or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series.
छोटी स्टोरी arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale, and more accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised comics.
Black Friday is the day following Thanksgiving Day in the संयुक्त States, often regarded as the beginning of the Christmas shopping season.
In recent years, most major retailers have opened extremely early and offered promotional sales to kick off the holiday shopping season, समान to मुक्केबाज़ी Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations.
Black Friday is not an official public holiday as ऐसे, but many non-retail employees and schools have both Thanksgiving and the day after off, followed by a weekend, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005, although news reports, which at that time were inaccurate, have described it as the busiest shopping day of the year for a much longer period of time.
The day 's name originated in Philadelphia, where it originally was used to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving.
Use of the term started before 1961 and began to see broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975.
Later an alternative explanation began to be offered : that `` Black Friday '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit, or are `` ''.
For many years, it was common for retailers to open at 6:00 a.m., but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011, when several retailers ( including Target, Kohl 's, Macy 's, Best Buy, and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time.
In 2012, Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states where opening on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to blue laws, such as Massachusetts where they still opened around midnight ), prompting calls for a walkout among some workers.
Black Friday shopping is known for attracting aggressive crowds, with annual reports of assaults, shootings, and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before आपूर्तियाँ run out.
the परिवार कि preys is a 2008 अमरीकी फिल्म नाटक लिखा, उत्पादित, और निर्देशित by टायलर पेरी.
The screenplay focuses on two families, one wealthy and the अन्य working class, whose lives are intertwined in both love and business.
The movie is the second of four in which Perry 's signature character, Madea, does not make an appearance.
It is also the second Perry-directed film ( alongside Daddy 's Little Girls ) that is not based on कोई of the फिल्मकार 's stage plays.
Net 10, Net 15, Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10 days, et al ) are forms of trade credit which specify that the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be paid in full and received by the seller within 10, 15, 30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed.
Net 30 or Net 60 terms are often coupled with a credit for early payment.
The word net in this sense means `` कुल बाद all discounts. ''
It originally derives from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( elegant, trim ), and more recently from the French net ( sharp, neat, clean ).
roadtown, Tortola
The British West Indies were the islands in and around the Caribbean कि यहूद part of the British Empire.
In 1912, the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : The Bahamas, Barbados, British Guiana, British Honduras, Jamaica ( with its dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands ), Trinidad and Tobago, the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands.
Between 1958 and 1962, all of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands, the Bahamas, British Honduras and British Guiana were organised into the West Indies Federation.
it was hoped that the Federation would become independent as a single nation, but it had limited powers, many practical problems, and a lack of popular support.
Consequently, the West Indies Federation was dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are now independent as separate countries, with membership to many international forums such as the Organization of American States, the Association of Caribbean States, the World Trade Organization, the United Nations, the Caribbean Community, the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean Development Bank among others.
The remainder are British overseas territories.
All the former nations of the British West Indies, except the Commonwealth of डोमिनिकन, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago, are Commonwealth Realms.
The term is still used for British Overseas Territories in the Caribbean, such as the Cayman Islands.
The remaining British वेस्ट Indies
`` कया a अद्भुत संसार '' is a सोंग written by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were दोनो prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
Inauguration Day 2009 on the west steps of the u.S. Capitol.
President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush lead the inaugural परेड down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House, 2005
The inauguration of the president of the United States is a ceremonial event अंकन the commencement of a new four-year term of a president of the United States.
The day a presidential inauguration occurs is known as `` Inauguration Day '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ).
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment, the date was March 4, the day of the year on which the Constitution of the United States पहला took प्रभाव in 1789 ; the last inauguration to take place on the older date was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4, 1933. )
The most recent public presidential inauguration ceremony, the swearing in of President Barack Obama to begin his second four-year term in office, took place on Monday, January 21, 2013.
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is that the president make an oath or affirmation before that person can `` enter on the निष्पादन '' of the दफ्तर of the presidency.
However, over the years, various traditions have arisen that have expanded the inauguration from a simple oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event, including parades, speeches, and balls.
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through that of Jimmy Carter, the primary Inauguration Day ceremony took place on the Capitol 's East Portico.
Since the 1981 inauguration of Ronald Reagan, the ceremony has been held at the कैपिटल 's West Front.
The inaugurations of William Howard Taft in 1909 and Reagan in 1985 were moved indoors at the Capitol due to cold weather.
The War of 1812 और World War II caused two inaugurations to be held at other locations in Washington, D.C.
When George Washington was inaugurated, the oath was administered by Robert Livingston, Chancellor of New York राज्य, in 1789, and by William Cushing, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, in 1793.
Since Chief Justice Oliver एल्सवर्थ swore in President John Adams, no chief justice has missed an Inauguration Day.
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a Sunday, the chief justice has administered the oath to the president on the Sunday privately and then again the next दिन सरेआम.
When a new president takes over mid-term due to the मौत or resignation of a president, the oath of office is administered but formal, public inauguration events have not been held.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta ( ; born March 28, 1986 ), known by her stage name Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, dancer, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, actress and philanthropist.
Born and raised in New York City, she primarily studied at the Convent of the Sacred दिल और briefly attended नई यॉर्क विश्वविद्यालयों 's Tisch School of the Arts before withdrawing to focus on her musical career.
She soon began performing in the rock music scene of मैनहटन 's निम्नतर ईस्ट Side.
By the end of 2007, record executive and producer Vincent Herbert signed her to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of interscope Records.
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records, her vocal abilities captured the attention of recording artist Akon, who also signed her to Kon Live Distribution, his own label under Interscope.
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording artist following the release of her debut album, The Fame ( 2008 ), which was a critical and commercial success that topped charts around the world and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face ``.
After embarking on the The Fame Ball Tour, she followed the album with The Fame Monster ( 2009 ), which spawned the worldwide hit singles `` Bad Romance ``, `` Telephone ``, and `` Alejandro ``.
The Fame Monsters success allowed her to embark on the eighteen-month long Monster Ball Tour, which later became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of all time.
Her most recent album, Born This Way ( 2011 ), topped the charts of most major markets and generated more international chart-topping singles, including `` Born This रास्ता ``, `` Judas ``, and `` The Edge of Glory ``.
Influenced by Britney Spears, David Bowie, Michael जैक्सन, मैडोना, and Queen, Lady Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant, diverse and outré contributions to the music industry through her fashion, performances and music videos.
As of October 2011, she has sold an estimated 23 million albums and 64 million singles विश्वव्यापी और उसके singles are some of the best-selling worldwide.
Her उपलब्धियाँ include five Grammy Awards and 13 MTV Video Music Awards.
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest Women in Music, is the sixth best selling digital singles artist in US according to RIAA, is regularly placed on lists composed by Forbes magazine and थी नामित एक of the most influential people in the world by Time magazine.
Besides her musical career, वो involves herself with humanitarian causes and LGBT activism.
McKethan Stadium घर of Gator baseball
A picture of the 1924 Baseball टोली
The Florida Gators baseball team represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of Florida in the sport of baseball.
The Florida Gators compete in Division I of the National Collegiate एथलेटिक्स संघ ( ncaa ), और the पूर्वी Division of the Southeastern Conference ( SEC ).
They play उनके घर games in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium on the university 's Gainesville, Florida campus, and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan.
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball program, the team has won twelve SEC championships and रै appeared in eight College World Series tournaments.
`` Electioneering '' redirects here.
For the Radiohead सोंग, देखिए OK Computer.
Presidential campaign button लिये Abraham Lincoln, 1860.
The reverse side of the बटन shows a portrait of his running mate Hannibal Hamlin.
A political campaign is an organized effort which seeks to influence the decision making process within a specific group.
In democracies, political campaigns often refer to electoral campaigns, wherein representatives are चुनी or referendums हैं decided.
In modern politics, the most high profile राजनैतिक अभियान हैं केन्द्रित on उम्मीदवार for head of state or head of government, often a President or Prime Minister.
एलिज़ाबेथ Cady Stanton and her daughter, Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12, 1815 – October 26, 1902 ) was an American social activist, abolitionist, और leading figure of the early women 's rights movement.
Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the first women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls, New York, is often credited with initiating the first organized women 's rights and women 's suffrage movements in the United राज्य.
Before Stanton narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights, she was an active abolitionist together with her husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit Smith.
Unlike many of those involved in the women 's rights movement, Stanton addressed various issues pertaining to women beyond voting rights.
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody अधिकारों, प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों, employment and income rights, divorce, the economic health of the family, and birth control.
वो थी भी an outspoken समर्थक of the 19th-century temperance गति.
After the American Civil War, Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the women 's rights movement when she, together with Susan B. Anthony, declined to support passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.
She opposed giving added legal protection and voting rights to African American men while women, black and white, were denied those same rights.
Her position on this issue, together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond voting rights, led to the formation of two separate women 's rights organizations that were finally rejoined, with Stanton as president of the joint organization, approximately twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement.
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both The Woman 's Bible and her autobiography, along with many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage and women 's rights.
My Fair Lady is a musical based upon George बर्नार्ड शॉ 's Pygmalion and with book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.
The story concerns Eliza Doolittle, a Cockney flower girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins, a phoneticist, so that she may pass as a well-born lady.
the musical 's 1956 ब्रॉडवे उत्पादन थी a hit, सेटिंग कया थी तब the रिकार्ड लिये the longest चलाएं of कोई प्रमुख musical थिएटर उत्पादन in history.
It was followed by a hit London production, a popular film संस्करण, and numerous revivals.
It has been called `` the perfect musical ''.
Deregulation is the act or process of removing or reducing state regulations.
It is therefore opposite of regulation, which refers to the process of the government regulating certain activities.
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 A.M., 8 f.m. plus 2 F.M. translators ) CBS Radio network which carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins.
The network 's flagship station is WBZ-FM /98.5- Boston, Massachusetts.
डेव goucher announces play-by-play.
Bob beers provides color commentary.
This article is about the short स्टोरी.
For the poem by Sara Teasdale, see There Will Come Soft Rains.
`` There Will Come Soft rains '' is a short story by science fiction author Ray Bradbury which was first published in the May 6, 1950 issue of Collier 's.
Later that same year the story was included in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 billion people, Han Chinese is the largest जातीय समूह in the world.
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region, which sits in an area between south of the Hindu Kush in Afghanistan and the Indus नदी in Pakistan.
They क्रमांक around 50 million.
The Korowai people of Papua numbered just around 3,000 people, and were uncontacted until the 1970s.
Ethnicity or ethnic group is a socially defined category based on common culture or nationality.
Ethnicity can, but does not have to, include common ancestry, appearance, cuisine, dressing style, heritage, history, language or dialect, religion, symbols, traditions, or other cultural factor.
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through common characteristics which set the group apart from other groups.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 घंटों of भंडार and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way वे कैप्चर, बदलें and distribute solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and सौर थर्मल collectors to harness the energy.
passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating जलवायु change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
ये advantages are global.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a western variety of the Greek alphabet called the Cumaean alphabet, which was adopted and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome.
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and further modified by the ancient Romans to write the Latin language.
During the Middle Ages, the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages, direct descendants of Latin, as well as to Celtic, Germanic, Baltic, and some Slavic languages.
With the age of colonialism and Christian evangelism, the Latin script was spread overseas, and applied to indigenous American, Australian, Austronesian, Austroasiatic, and African languages.
More recently, linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely based on Latin script ) when transcribing or creating written standards for non-European languages, such as the African reference alphabet.
the पद लैटिन वर्णमाला may refer to either the वर्णमाला प्रयुक्त to लिखें लैटिन ( as वर्णित in इस आलेख ), or अन्य alphabets आधारित on the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट, जिससे is the मौलिक नियत of अक्षर आम to the विभिन्न alphabets descended इससे the शास्त्रीय लैटिन एक, ऐसे as the अंग्रेज़ी वर्णमाला.
These Latin-derived alphabets may discard letters, like the Rotokas alphabet, or add new letters, like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet.
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries, including the creation for Medieval Latin of lower case forms which did not मौजूद in the शास्त्रीय period.
The assassination of United States President Abraham Lincoln took place on Good शुक्रवार, अप्रैल 14, 1865, as the American Civil War was drawing to a close.
The assassination occurred five days after the commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia, General Robert E. Lee, surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the संघ फौज of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the first American president to be assassinated, though an unsuccessful attempt had been made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835.
The assassination was planned and carried out by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth, as part of a larger षड्यंत्र in a bid to revive the Confederate cause.
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold, who were assigned to kill Secretary of State William H. Seward, and George Atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson.
By simultaneously eliminating the top तीन लोगों in the administration, Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government.
Lincoln was shot while watching the play Our American Cousin with his wife Mary Todd Lincoln at Ford 's Theatre in Washington, D.C. on the night of April 14, 1865.
He died early the next morning.
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only managed to घाव seward, while Atzerodt, Johnson 's would-be assassin, lost his nerve and fled Washington.
add-on might mean:
Plug-in ( computing ), a piece of software which enhances another software application and usually can not be run independently
ब्राउजर एक्सटेंशन, which modifies the interface and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ), a टुकड़ा of तन्त्र that enhances and customizes Mozilla-based applications
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ), the official Mozilla Foundation web site which serves as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
Peripheral, an optional computer hardware component that significantly supplements or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory, a piece of hardware used in conjunction with a video game console for playing video games
Club level seating is a खास खण्ड of seating in modern sports stadiums.
The Club Level is usually located towards the middle of the stage of seating sections, above the lower deck but below the upper deck.
They are usually right next to the लक्ज़री Boxes, either right above, right below, or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes.
Club Level seating is considered as higher class than sitting anywhere else in the arena, but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes.
Unlike the Luxury Boxes, most club स्तर do not wrap entirely around the arena.
Some club levels stop at a certain point, giving way to an expansion of the Mezzanine, while others give way to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ).
A notable exception to this is Emirates स्टेडियम in London, which has a complete tier of club seating.
Club Levels allow fans multiple levels of entertainment.
Club Level seating is open to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes, which gives more of an outdoors impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas.
क्लबों स्तर seating is सामान्यतः खरीदा on a अनुबंध आधार to allow लिये अधिकतम लाभ on the भाग of the स्टेडियम.
The क्लबों Level provides fans with special access to an indoor part of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets.
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special restaurants, merchandise stands, and lounge areas of the stadium that are not otherwise available.
Concession stands and vendors on the Club स्तर भी प्रायः offer different menus than in other stands to give more of a special feel to the Club.
These areas are closed off to the rest of the stadium, and they usually can only be accessed through the विशेष, private club entrances.
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia Villani Scicolone ; 20 September 1934 ) is an Italian अभिनेत्री.
Loren is widely recognized as Italy 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध and honored actress.
She was the first actress of the talkie era to win an Academy Award for a non-English-speaking performance, for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women.
Her other awards include a Grammy Award, five special सुनहरी Globes, a BAFTA Award and a Laurel Award.
In 1995 she received the Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievements, one of many such awards.
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ), El Cid ( 1961 ), Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ), Marriage Italian-Style ( 1964 ), and A Special Day ( 1977 ).
In later years she has appeared in American blockbusters such as Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 ), and Nine ( 2009 ).
In 1994 she starred in Robert Altman 's Prêt-à-Porter, which earned her a सुनहरी Globe nomination the same year.
She has also achieved critical and commercial success in TV movies such as हिम्मत ( 1986 ).
मौतों लिये self-inflicted चोटों प्रति 100,000 निवासियों in 2004.
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both religious and social pressures, and possibly completely unreported in some areas.
Nevertheless, from reported cases, निश्चित trends are apparent.
Since the data is skewed, comparing suicide rates between nations is statistically unsound.
The trends themselves are not the cause, but may be indicative of a root cause.
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls - South Africa is a female बोर्डिंग स्कूल संस्थापित in जनवरी 2007 और स्तिथ in Henley on Klip near Meyerton, south of Johannesburg, South Africa.
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing educational and leadership opportunities for academically gifted girls from impoverished backgrounds.
Oprah Winfrey नेतृत्व Academy for Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone network provider ऑपरेटिंग in 31 markets across the Caribbean, Central America, and Oceania regions.
The company is स्वामित्व by Irishman Denis O'Brien, is incorporated in Bermuda, and based in Jamaica.
It has about 13 million wireless उपयोक्ता.
As of 2012, Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, El Salvador, Fiji, French Guiana, Grenada, Guadeloupe, गुयाना, हैती, जमैका, मार्टीनिक, प्रकृति, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and Caicos, and Vanuatu.
This is a list of records of the FIFA World Cup and its योग्यता matches.
Hospital आपात Codes are used in hospitals worldwide to alert staff to various emergencies.
The use of codes is intended to convey अनिवार्य सूचना जल्दी और साथ minimal misunderstanding to staff, while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital.
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the हॉस्पिटल, or printed on employee identification badges for ready reference.
Back of a hospital ID badge प्रर्दशित disaster codes.
Hospital emergency codes may denote different events at different hospitals, including nearby ones.
Because many physicians work at more than one facility, this may lead to confusion in emergencies, so uniform systems have been proposed.
The route of the Eifel aqueduct, with its average slope.
The Eifel Aqueduct was one of the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire.
The aqueduct, constructed in AD 80, carried water some from the hilly Eifel region of what is now Germany to the ancient city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
If the auxiliary spurs to additional springs are included, the length was.
The construction was almost entirely नीचे मैदान, and the flow of the water was produced entirely by gravity.
A few bridges, including one up to in length, यहूद needed to pass over valleys.
Unlike some of the other famous Roman aqueducts, the Eifel aqueduct was specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing.
In chemistry, a disulfide bond ( Br.E. disulphide बंध ) is a covalent bond, usually derived by the coupling of two thiol groups.
The linkage is also called an SS-bond or disulfide bridge.
The overall connectivity is therefore r-s-s-r.
The terminology is widely used in biochemistry.
In formal terms, the connection is a persulfide, in analogy to its congener, peroxide ( R-O-O-R ), but this terminology is अस्पष्ट और is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ).
Formal depiction of disulfide bond formation as an oxidation.
Westminster Abbey is used for the coronation of British monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it, has been dominated, for over 1,400 years, by various forms of Christianity.
According to some surveys, a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity, although regular church attendance has fallen dramatically since the middle of the 20th century, and immigration and demographic बदलें have contributed to the विकास of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are recorded by regular surveys, the four major ones being the uk जनसांख्यिकी, the श्रमिक Force Survey, the British Social Attitudes survey and the European Social Survey.
According to the 2001 UK census, Christianity is the major religion, followed by Islam, Hinduism, Sikhism, Judaism and Buddhism in terms of number of adherents.
This, and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no धार्मिक संबद्धों has led commentators to variously describe the United Kingdom as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-Christian society.
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707, and consequently most of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures.
While some groups have separate structures for the individual countries of the United Kingdom, others may have a single structure covering England and Wales or Great Britain.
Similarly, due to the relatively recent creation of Northern Ireland in 1921, most major religious groups in Northern Ireland are organised on an all-Ireland basis.
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil disturbance that occurred in the city of Newark, New Jersey between July 12 and July 17, 1967.
The six days of rioting, looting, and destruction left 26 मुर्दे and hundreds injured.
In United States college athletics, redshirt is a delay or suspension of an athlete 's participation in order to lengthen his or her period of eligibility.
Typically, a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four seasons, a number derived from the four years of अकादमिक वर्ग that are normally required to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university.
However, a student athlete may be offered the opportunity to redshirt for up to two years, which allows the athlete to spread those four years of eligibility over five, or sometimes six years.
In a redshirt year, a student athlete may attend classes at the college or university, practice with an athletic team, and dress for play but he or she may not compete during the खेल.
Using this mechanism, a student athlete has up to five academic years to use the four years of eligibility, thus becoming a fifth-year senior.
The term is used as a verb, noun, and adjective.
For example, a coach may choose to redshirt a player who is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
The opposite of this is a `` true freshman. ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the पहला संसार युद्ध or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in इतिहास.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to विशाल increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला decades were invoked.
Within सप्ताह, the प्रमुख powers were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as तैयारी for the invasion of Serbia.
जबकि the russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
on the पूर्वी सामने, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट prussia by the germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive साथ the पश्चिमी front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
The war ended in victory for the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as उग्र as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states.
the लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे विरोध.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist states under the Marxist–Leninist or Maoist definition - that is to say, `` Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983.
This period marked the greatest territorial extent of Communist states.
A communist state is a state where the अर्थात् of production are collectively owned by the society.
It has a form of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party rule of a कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी ( referred as Dictatorship of the Proletariat by its proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
Technically, `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist society as defined by both Marxists and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From this perspective, the पद marxist-leninist state is more appropriate.
Historically, a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today, a communist state can also, for instance, refer to contemporary China and Vietnam, where a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy.
According to Marxist–Leninists, the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling class, which in a socialist society is the working class, so a socialist state is, according to Leninists, a state of the working class.
In practice, communist states do not actually refer to themselves as such.
They do this not to disguise the fact that the सत्ताधारी party is communist, but rather because they do not consider themselves to be a communist society at present.
Instead, they constitutionally पहचानो themselves as socialist states or workers ' states.
The primary goal of these states, which also explains their official name, is to guide their respective countries in the process of भवन socialism, ultimately leading to communism.
Communist states may have several legal political parties, but the communist party is usually granted a special or dominant role in government, often by statute or under the constitution.
Consequently, the institutions of the state and of the communist party become intimately entwined, such as in the development of parallel institutions.
In the 20th सदी, सबसे कम्युनिस्ट states adopted planned economies.
However, there were exceptions : The Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after World War II allowed limited markets and a degree of worker self-management, while China, Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
In the 21st century, China and Vietnam have allowed a mixed economy to develop.
The fundamental concepts of communist states often diverge from the original socio-economic विचारधाराओं from which they develop.
As a result, अनेक adherents of these ideologies often oppose the political systems commonly associated with these states.
For example, dissenting communists such as Trotskyists were often opposed to the communist राज्य of the 20th सदी, claiming either that they had nothing to do with `` real '' communism or that the ideology of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption.
Michael Fred Phelps II ( born June 30, 1985 ) is a retired American swimmer and the most decorated Olympian of all time, with a total of 22 medals.
Phelps also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals ( 18, double the second highest record holders ), Olympic gold medals in individual events ( 11 ), and Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ).
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games, Phelps took the record for the most first-place finishes at any single ओलम्पिक खेल.
Five of those victories were in individual कार्यक्रम, tying the single Games record.
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Phelps won four golds and two silver medals, making him the most successful खिलाड़ी of the खेल for the third Olympics in a row.
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as well as the former long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley.
He has won a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition, 57 gold, 11 silver, and three bronze spanning the Olympics, the World, and the Pan Pacific Championships.
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking performances have अर्जित उसे the संसार तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार सात टाइम्स और अमरीकी तैराक of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012.
His unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 earned Phelps Sports Illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of the Year award.
After the 2008 Summer ओलंपिक, फेल्प्स started the Michael Phelps Foundation, which focuses on growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further work with his foundation after the 2012 ओलंपिक, जिससे he has said will be his last.
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a Chinese multinational computer hardware and electronics company with its headquarters in Beijing, China and morrisville, उत्तर कैरोलिना and its registered office in Hong Kong, China.
इसके उत्पाद शामिल निजी कंप्यूटर, टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर, मोबाईल फोन, workstations, सर्वर, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक भंडार डिवाइस, it प्रबन्धन तन्त्र और smart टेलीविज़न.
Lenovo is the world 's second-largest PC vendor by 2012 unit बिक्री.
It बाज़ार the ThinkPad line of notebook computers and the ThinkCentre line of desktops.
लेनोवो has operations in more than 60 countries and sells its products in around 160 countries.
Lenovo was founded in Beijing in 1984 and incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 अंतर्गत इसके previous name, Legend.
लेनोवो is सूचीबद्ध on the हांग काँग भण्डार एक्सचेंज और is a constituent of the हैंग सेंग china-affiliated corporations अनुक्रमणिका.
Slug is a common name for an apparently shell-less terrestrial gastropod mollusk.
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the common name of any gastropod mollusc that has no shell, has a very reduced शेल, or has only a small internal shell.
( This is in contrast to the common name `` snail ``, which is applied to gastropods that have a coiled shell that is large enough that the soft parts of the animal can retract fully into it. )
Slugs exist on land और in the sea, and there is even one genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to land slugs, whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or from freshwater are usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs ''.
Land gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial, लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( like many in the family Urocyclidae ), are known as semislugs.
the विभिन्न taxonomic families of slugs form part of several quite different evolutionary lineages which also include snails.
यूँ, लिये उदाहरण, the विभिन्न परिवारों of जमीन slugs हैं नहीं बहुत closely सम्बन्धित to एक another, despite a सतही समानता in the overall देह रूप.
The shell-less condition has arisen many times independently during the evolutionary past, और यूँ the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, like all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the internal organs ) during development.
Internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this rotation, but externally the bodies of land slugs appear to be more or less symmetrical, except for the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one side of the animal, normally the right hand side.
The soft, slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and must retreat to damp hiding places when the weather is शुष्क.
The subsequent information in इस आलेख applies to land slugs.
is a Latin word कि means `` thus '' or, in writing, `` it was thus in the source material ''.
sic may also refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a commune in Romania
SIC, the regional code for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], stage name of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC, the initial of Marco Simoncelli.
SIC as an acronym may stand for:
SiC, Silicon कार्बाइड, a semiconducting material, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification, a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial Classification a UN system for economic activities
शेटलैंड Islands Council
the स्विस interbank clearing प्रणाली
San Isidro Club, an Argentine rugby संघ club
Standing Interpretation Committee, a committee dedicated to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the field of statistics
Second-in-command in the field of विमानन
Sistema Interconectado सेंट्रल power grid in Chile
sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ), a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City, New जर्सी, a coastal town in the United States
segmented Integer Counter mode, a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International Circuit, a motor racing venue in Shanghai, China
सरलीकृत instructional computer, a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( बेटे idées couleurs ), an early twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a two year Junior कॉलेज in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly known as the relative विद्युतशीलता or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a Jesuit school in Sydney, Australia
Imperial मानक of Napoleon I
Napoleon Bonaparte (, ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence दौरान the latter stages of the French Revolution and its associated wars in Europe.
As Napoleon I, he was Emperor of the French from 1804 to 1815.
His legal reform, the Napoleonic Code, has been a major influence on many civil law jurisdictions worldwide, but he is best remembered for his role in the wars led against France by a series of coalitions, the so-called Napoleonic Wars.
He established hegemony over most of continental यूरोपीय और sought to स्प्रेड the ideals of the French Revolution, while consolidating an imperial monarchy which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime.
Due to his success in these wars, often against numerically superior enemies, he is generally regarded as one of the greatest military commanders of all time, and his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide.
Napoleon was born at ajaccio in Corsica in a family of noble Italian ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century.
He trained as an artillery officer in mainland France.
He rose to prominence under the French First Republic and led successful campaigns against the First and Second coalitions arrayed against France.
He led a कामयाब invasion of the Italian peninsula.
In 1799, he staged a coup d'état and installed himself as First Consul ; five years later the फ्रेंच सीनेट proclaimed him emperor, following a plebiscite in his favour.
In the first decade of the 19th century, the French Empire under Napoleon engaged in a series of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved every major European power.
After a streak of victories, फ़्रांस secured a dominant position in continental Europe, and Napoleon maintained the French sphere of influence through the formation of extensive alliances and the appointment of friends and family members to rule other European countries as French client states.
The Peninsular War and 1812 French invasion of Russia marked turning points in Napoleon 's सौभाग्य.
His Grande Armée was badly damaged in the campaign and never fully recovered.
In 1813, the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the following year the गठबन्धन invaded France, forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled him to the island of Elba.
Less than a year later, he escaped Elba and returned to power, but was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815.
Napoleon spent the last six years of his life in कारावास by the British on the island of Saint Helena.
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer, but there has been some debate about the cause of his death, as some scholars have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning.
इस is a chronological listing of the United States Senators from Pennsylvania.
United States Senators are popularly elected, for a six-year term, beginning January 3.
Elections हैं held the first Tuesday after November 1.
Before 1914, they were chosen by the Pennsylvania General Assembly, and before 1935, their terms began March 4.
The South Africa national rugby संघ team ( known as the Springboks ) represents South Africa in rugby union.
They compete in the annual Rugby Championship, along with southern-hemisphere counterparts अर्जेंटीना, Australia and New Zealand.
They have won this championship on three occasions in सोलह सालो.
They are currently ranked second in the world by the International Rugby Board, and were named 2008 World Team of the Year at the Laureus World Sports Awards.
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup competition, the Springboks did not compete in the first two World Cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa.
The team made its World Cup debut in 1995, when the newly democratic South Africa hosted the टूर्नामेंट.
The Springboks then defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in the final, which is अभी remembered as one of the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history, and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process.
South Africa regained their title as champions 12 सालो later, when they defeated England 15–6 in the 2007 final.
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the Springboks were promoted to first प्लेस in the IRB World Rankings, a position they held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot.
The Springboks play in green and gold jerseys, and their emblems are the Springbok and the Protea.
The side has been playing international रग्बी since 1891, when a British Isles side toured the nation, playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July.
South Africa was coached by Jake White, who led the Boks to the 2007 World Cup title, announcing उसके इस्तीफा effectively from the end of 2007.
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011, following a 11–9 defeat to Australia in the Rugby World Cup quarter-final, who then stated he would not be signing a new deal.
The previous captain was John Smit, who before he रिटायर्ड in 2011 played hooker for most of his career, although he has also been a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
Due to smit होने अनुपलब्ध for the November 2010 Tests after surgery, lock Victor Matfield took Smit 's place as captain for that tour.
The वर्तमान captain is Jean de Villiers.
The Battle of gettysburg (, साथ an ध्वनि ), was fought July 1–3, 1863, in and around the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
It was the battle with the largest number of casualties in the American Civil War and is often described as the war 's turning point.
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's Army of the Potomac defeated attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee 's Army of Northern Virginia, ending Lee 's invasion of the North.
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863, Lee led his army through the Shenandoah Valley to begin his second आक्रमण of the north—the Gettysburg Campaign.
With his army in high spirits, Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their prosecution of the war by penetrating as far as Harrisburg, पेन्सिलवेनिया, or even Philadelphia.
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln, Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker moved his army in pursuit, लकिन थी सुकून just three days before the battle and replaced by Meade.
Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863, as Lee urgently concentrated his forces there, his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it.
Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union cavalry division under Brig. Gen. John Buford, and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry.
However, two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the northwest and north, collapsing the hastily developed Union lines, sending the defenders retreating through the streets of town to the hills just to the south.
On the second day of battle, most of both armies had समवेत.
The Union line was laid out in a रक्षात्मक formation resembling a fishhook.
In the late afternoon of July 2, Lee launched a heavy assault on the Union left flank, and fierce fighting raged at Little Round Top, the Wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the Peach Orchard.
On the Union right, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on Culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill.
All across the battlefield, despite significant losses, the Union defenders held their lines.
On the third day of battle, July 3, fighting resumed on Culp 's Hill, and cavalry battles raged to the east and south, but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge, known as Pickett 's Charge.
The चार्ज was repulsed by Union rifle and artillery fire, at great losses to the Confederate army.
Lee led his army on a torturous retreat back to Virginia.
Between 46,000 और 51,000 सैनिको from both armies were casualties in the three-day battle.
That November, President Lincoln used the dedication ceremony for the Gettysburg National Cemetery to honor the fallen Union soldiers and redefine the purpose of the युद्ध in उसके ऐतिहासिक Gettysburg Address.
An academic discipline, or field of study, is a branch of knowledge that is taught and researched at the college or university level.
Disciplines are defined ( in भाग ), और पहचाना by the academic journals in which research is published, and the learned societies and academic departments or faculties to which their practitioners belong.
However, there exists no formal criteria for when educational programs and scholarly journals form an academic discipline.
A huge difference exists between, on the one hand, well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the world, have a long history, and have a well established set of journals and conferences, and, on the other hand, suggestions for new fields supported only by few universities and publications.
Fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or branches, and the distinguishing lines between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous.
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming language.
PHP is now संस्थापित on more than 244 million websites and 2.1 million web servers.
Originally निर्मित by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the reference implementation of PHP is now produced by The PHP Group.
While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page, it now stands for PHP : Hypertext preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor module which generates the resulting web page : पीएचपी commands can be embedded directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an external file to process data.
It has also evolved to include a command-line interface capability and can be used in standalone आलेखीय applications.
PHP is फ़्री तन्त्र released अंतर्गत the पीएचपी अनुज्ञा, जिससे is असंगत साथ the ग्नू सामान्य पब्लिक अनुज्ञा ( जीपीएल ) due to प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the पद पीएचपी.
PHP can be तैनात on most web servers and also as a standalone shell on almost every operating system and platform, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – नवम्बर 22, 1963 ), प्रायः referred to by his initials JFK, was the 35th President of the United States, serving from 1961 until his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II in the दक्षिण प्रशांत, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President and रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been elected to the office, the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the तभी non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष, और is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have जीती a पुलित्जर पुरस्कार.
Events during his presidency शामिल the खाड़ी of सूअर आक्रमण, the क्यूबन Missile Crisis, the building of the Berlin Wall, the Space Race, the African-American Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the number of military advisers, special operation forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South ईस्ट एशिया.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic Hamlet Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It involved certain forced relocation, village internment, and segregation of rural दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the northern and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later, before a trial could take place.
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the United States House Select कमेटी on assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, एबीसी न्यूज in उनके छानबीन, the कैनेडी हत्या : परे षड्यंत्र, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded ओसवाल्ड acted अलोन.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber कार्यक्रम led to a Congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
चूंकि the 1960s सूचना concerning कैनेडी 's निजी जीवन रै आइये to लाइट.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become better known, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially रखा रहस्य from the general public, reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks highly in पब्लिक opinion ratings of U.S. presidents.
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. King and written by King, Jerry Leiber, and Mike Stoller, inspired by the आध्यात्मिक `` रब स्टैंड by Me, '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
There have been over 400 recorded versions of the song.
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D. Ehrhart, shows a farm woman labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering from a tornado of political change.
A metaphor is a figure of speech कि describes a subject by asserting that it is, on some point of comparison, the same as another otherwise unrelated object.
Metaphor is a प्रकार of सादृश्य और is closely सम्बन्धित to अन्य rhetorical आंकड़े of वाक कि achieve उनके प्रभाव via संघ, तुलना or प्रतिरूप सहित allegory, अतिशयोक्ति, और simile.
In simpler terms, a metaphor compares two objects or things without using the शब्द `` like '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor in English literature is the All the world 's a स्टेज monologue from As You Like It :
All the world 's a stage,
And all the men and महिलाओं merely players ;
They have their exits and their entrances ; — William शेक्सपियर, As You Like It, 2/7
This quote is a metaphor क्युकी the world is not literally a stage.
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage, Shakespeare uses the points of comparison between the world and a stage to convey an understanding about the mechanics of the संसार और the lives of the people within it.
Mount Fuji, from the Thirty-six Views of माउंट फुजी, color woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
Rembrandt van Rijn, self-portrait, etching, c.1630
फ्रांसिस्को गोया, वहीँ is no एक to सहायता उन्हें, आपदाओं of युद्ध श्रेणी, aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton, La raison probante ( The Cogent Reason ), woodcut इससे the श्रेणी intimités, 1898
Printmaking is the process of making artworks by printing, normally on paper.
Printmaking normally covers only the process of creating prints with an element of originality, rather than just being a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक जनन of a painting.
Except in the case of monotyping, the process is capable of producing multiples of the same piece, which is पुकारा a छपाई.
Each print produced is not considered a `` copy '' but rather is considered an `` original ''.
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process, and also because the imagery of a print is typically not simply a reproduction of another work but rather is often a unique image designed from the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique.
A print may be ज्ञात as an impression.
printmaking ( अन्य than monotyping ) is नहीं चुनी तभी लिये इसके क्षमता to उपज अनेक impressions, लकिन बल्कि लिये the अद्वितीय qualities कि प्रत्येक of the printmaking प्रक्रियाओं lends itself to.
Prints are created by transferring ink from a matrix or through a prepared screen to a sheet of paper or other material.
Common types of matrices include : metal plates, usually copper or zinc, or polymer plates for engraving or etching ; stone, aluminum, or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts.
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics are used for the screenprinting process.
Other types of मेट्रिक्स substrates and related processes are discussed below.
अनेक impressions printed from the same matrix form an edition.
Since the late 19th century, artists have generally signed individual impressions from an edition and often क्रमांक the impressions to form a limited edition.
Prints may also be printed in book form, such as illustrated books or artist 's books.
Il Divo is an English multinational operatic pop vocal group created by music manager, executive, and reality TV star Simon cowell.
Formed in the United Kingdom, they are also signed to Cowell 's record लेबल, Syco Music.
Il Divo is a group of four पुरूष singers : French pop singer Sébastien Izambard, Spanish baritone Carlos Marín, American tenor David Miller, and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler.
To date, they have sold more than 26 million albums worldwide.
Su-15, one of the principal Soviet Air रक्षा interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor वायुयान ( or बस interceptor ) is a प्रकार of सेनानी वायुयान designed specifically to prevent मिशन of दुश्मन वायुयान, विशेषकर बमवर्षक और reconnaissance वायुयान, और नष्ट उन्हें, relying प्रायः on ग्रेट गति और शक्तिशाली armament.
Being used since the First World War, after the late 1960s, interceptors became less important due to shifting from bombers to intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) for nuclear warfare.
A Vietnamese अमरीकी ( ) is an American of Vietnamese descent.
They make up about half of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người Việt Hải Ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest Asian American group.
Mass Vietnamese आव्रजन to the संयुक्त राज्य started after 1975, after the end of the Vietnam War.
Early immigrants were refugee boat people fleeing persecution or poverty.
Forced to flee from their homeland and often thrust into poor urban पड़ोस, ये newcomers have nevertheless managed to establish strong communities in a short amount of time.
More than sixty percent of Vietnamese Americans reside in the states of California, Texas, Washington, Florida, and Virginia.
Front page of the U.S. हथियारबंद Forces newspaper, Stars and Stripes, 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler committed suicide by gunshot on 30 April 1945 in his führerbunker in Berlin.
His wife Eva ( née Braun ) committed suicide with him by ingesting cyanide.
That afternoon, in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions, their remains were carried up the stairs through the बंकर 's emergency exit, doused in petrol and set alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker.
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains were recovered and interred in successive locations until 1970 when they were again exhumed, cremated and the ashes scattered.
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, while biting down on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary इतिहासकारों have अस्वीकृत ये खाते as being either Soviet propaganda or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions.
One eye-witness recorded that the body showed signs of having been shot through the mouth, but this has been proven unlikely.
There is also controversy regarding the authenticity of skull and jaw fragments which were recovered.
In 2009, DNA tests were performed on a skull Soviet officials had long believed to be Hitler 's.
The tests revealed that the skull was actually that of a स्त्री कम than 40 years old.
Location of Missouri
The alcohol laws of Missouri are among the least restrictive and most lax और permissive in the संयुक्त States.
Missouri is known throughout the मिडवेस्ट लिये its largely laissez-faire approach to alcohol regulation, in sharp contrast to the very strict alcohol laws of some of its neighbors, like Kansas and Oklahoma.
necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or nf, commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome, is a rare infection of the deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous tissues, easily spreading across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue.
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having greater risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes, cancer, etc.
It is a severe disease of sudden onset and is usually treated immediately with high doses of intravenous antibiotics.
Type I describes a polymicrobial infection, whereas Type II describes a monomicrobial संक्रमण.
Many types of bacteria can कारण necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ), Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
Such infections are more likely to occur in people साथ compromised immune systems.
Historically, Group A streptococcus made up most cases of Type II infections.
However, since as early as 2001, another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has been observed with increasing frequency, caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ).
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and NF, though the evidence of the link was said to be weak because of a small number of case patients and it was unclear whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary संक्रमण or were a cause per se.
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ), also known as the Second World War, was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945.
It involved the vast majority of the world 's nations —including all of the great powers —eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis.
It was the most widespread war in history, with more than 100 million people serving in military units from over 30 different countries.
in a राज्य of `` कुल युद्ध ``, the प्रमुख भागीदार लगाई उनके संपूर्ण आर्थिक, औद्योगिक, और वैज्ञानिक सामर्थ्य at the सेवा of the युद्ध प्रयत्न, erasing the भेद between civilian और सैन्य resources.
Marked by mass deaths of civilians, including the Holocaust and the only use of nuclear weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities.
These deaths make World War II by far the deadliest conflict in human history.
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937, but the world war is generally said to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 साथ the आक्रमण of कैंडल by जर्मनी और subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain.
From late 1939 to early 1941, in a series of campaigns and treaties, Germany formed the Axis गठबंधन with Italy, conquering or subduing much of continental Europe.
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours, including Poland.
The United Kingdom and the other members of the British Commonwealth were the only major Allied forces continuing the fight against the Axis, with battles taking place in North अफ़्रीकी as खूब as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
In June 1941, the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, giving a start to the largest land theatre of war in history, which tied down the major part of the Axis ' military forces for the rest of the war.
In December 1941, Japan joined the Axis, attacked the United States and European territories in the Pacific Ocean, and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific.
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942, after Japan lost a series of naval battles and European Axis troops were defeated in North Africa and, decisively, at Stalingrad.
In 1943, with a series of German defeats in Eastern Europe, the Allied invasion of Italy, and American victories in the Pacific, the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts.
In 1944, the Western Allies invaded France, while the Soviet Union regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies.
During 1944 and 1945 the United States defeated the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands.
The war in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by Soviet and Polish troops and the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 may 1945.
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945, the United States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 August, and Nagasaki on 9 August.
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent, and the Soviet Union having declared war on Japan by invading Manchuria, Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945, ending the war in Asia and cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis.
संसार War II altered the political alignment and social structure of the world.
The United Nations ( UN ) was स्थापित to foster international cooperation and prevent future conflicts.
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States, the Soviet Union, China, the United Kingdom, and France—became the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage for the Cold War, which lasted for the next 46 years.
Meanwhile, the influence of European great शक्तियां प्रारंभ to decline, while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began.
Most countries whose industries had been damaged moved towards economic recovery.
Political integration, especially in Europe, emerged as an effort to stabilise postwar relations and fight more effectively in the Cold War.
A limited liability company ( LLC ) is a flexible form of enterprise that blends elements of partnership and corporate structures.
Note than an LLC is not a निगम, and calling an LLC a corporation is technically incorrect.
An LLC is a legal form of company that provides limited liability to its owners in the vast majority of United States jurisdictions.
llcs do not need to be organized for profit.
Five k-cups
The inside of a used K-Cup, with the top foil और the प्रयुक्त कॉफी grounds removed.
This shows the फिल्टर inside the K-Cup.
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or अन्य सिंगल कप brewing systems to brew a cup of coffee, tea, or hot chocolate.
प्रत्येक k-cup is a प्लास्टिक संग्राहक साथ a कॉफी फिल्टर अंदर.
मैदान कॉफी सेम हैं packed in the k-cup और sealed air-tight साथ a संयोजन प्लास्टिक और foil ढक्कन.
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the K-Cup and forces hot जल under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug.
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Diedrich/ Gloria Jeans, Timothy 's World Coffee, Van Houtte, Caribou Coffee, Celestial Seasonings, Bigelow Tea Company, Twinings, Tully 's, Coffee People and Newman 's Own.
Keurig 's patents on the original K-Cup design expired in सितंबर 2012.
Keurig holds at least one additional, still-active US patent and another patent application, detailing improvements that have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design.
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the Gallet Watch Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland.
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 hour recoding capabilities, स्वचालित दिन, date, month, and moon phase display
A modern Seiko क्वार्ट्ज wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement 7T92 ).
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive ATV53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4 area Radio Controlled reception ( North America, Europe, China, Japan ).
A chronograph is a specific type of watch that is used as a stopwatch combined with a display watch.
A basic chronograph has an स्वतंत्र sweep second hand ; it can be started, stopped, and returned to zero by successive pressure on the stem.
Louis moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect, part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus लिये attaching हार्डवेयर devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus, but in a standardized format that is स्वतंत्र of कोई particular processor.
डिवाइस कनेक्ट to the बस appear to the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the प्रोसेसर बस, और हैं आबंटित पता in the प्रोसेसर 's पता स्पेस.
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, called a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles, where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently महरूम अपनाया for other computer types.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express, but, most motherboards are still made with one or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट, which are sufficient for many uses.
The पीसीआई specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be purchased इससे the पीसीआई Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards, sound cards, modems, extra ports such as USB or serial, TV ट्यूनर ताश और डिस्क परिरक्षक.
PCI video cards replaced isa और vesa cards, until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available for use with old PCs without AGP or PCI Express slots.
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions.
माइकल whitaker स्मिथ ( born अक्तूबर 7, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी समकालीन ईसाई संगीतकार, जो रै charted primarily in the समकालीन Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts.
His biggest success in mainstream music was in 1991 when `` Place in this World '' hit No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time Grammy Award विजेता, and has earned 40 Dove Awards.
over the कोर्स of his career, he sold more than 13 million albums and recorded 29 No. 1 Hit songs, fourteen gold albums, and five platinum albums.
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he was also named one of People magazine 's `` Most Beautiful People ''.
An American poster from the World War II -era that was used to inform people about what they should do if वे suspect तोड़फोड़.
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another entity through subversion, obstruction, disruption, or destruction.
In a workplace setting, sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of efficiency generally directed at causing some change in workplace conditions.
One who engages in sabotage is a saboteur.
As a rule, saboteurs try to conceal their identities because of the consequences of उनके actions.
For example, whereas an environmental pressure group might be happy to be identified with an act of sabotage, it would not want the व्यक्तिगत पहचान of the perpetrators known.
Patrick हेनरी कॉलेज ( phc ) is a निजी, स्वतंत्र कॉलेज साथ an धर्मान्तरण ईसाई आधार कि focuses on शिक्षण शास्त्रीय उदार कला और सरकारी, स्तिथ in purcellville, वर्जिनिया, संयुक्त राज्य.
Patrick Henry is known for its conservative धर्मान्तरण Christian focus.
As of April 17, 2007, the college was accredited by the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools, a national faith-related accrediting organization recognized by the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education प्रत्यायन.
The school was founded with the help of the Home School Legal Defense Association, and now serves as the headquarters लिये the संगठन, साथ जिससे it is स्टिल closely connected.
The history of television comprises the work of numerous engineers and inventors in several countries over many decades.
The earliest proposal was in 1908, in a paper by A. A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the उपयोग of cathode rays.
The first practical demonstrations of television, however, were developed using electromechanical methods to scan, transmit, and reproduce an image.
As electronic camera and display tubes were perfected, electromechanical television gave way to all-electronic systems in nearly सब अनुप्रयोग.
L'Idéal Cinéma - Jacques Tati at Aniche खोली नवम्बर 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A cinema in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A typical multiplex ( AMC Promenade 16 in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema, movie house, film house, film theater or picture house ) is a venue, usually a building, for viewing films.
Most but not all movie theaters are commercial operations catering to the general public, who attend by purchasing a ticket.
The movie is projected with a movie projector onto a large projection screen at the front of the auditorium.
Most movie theaters are now equipped for digital cinema projection, removing the need to create and transport a physical film print.
Southern California Norton Owner 's Club on California State Route 41, निकट creston.
A motorcycle club is a group of individuals whose प्राथमिक ब्याज और क्रियाएँ involve motorcycles.
Lyme disease, Lyme borreliosis is an infectious disease caused by at least three species of bacteria belonging to the genus Borrelia.
borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in North America, whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii cause most European cases.
The disease is named after the towns of Lyme and Old Lyme, Connecticut, USA, where a क्रमांक of मामले were identified in 1975.
Although Allen Steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978, the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1981, when B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy Burgdorfer.
Lyme disease is the most common tick-borne disease in the Northern Hemisphere.
Borrelia is transmitted to इंसानो by the काटना of infected ticks belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
Early symptoms may शामिल ज्वर, headache, fatigue, depression, and a characteristic circular skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ).
Left untreated, later symptoms may involve the joints, heart, and central nervous system.
In most cases, the infection and its symptoms are eliminated by antibiotics, especially if the illness is treated early.
Delayed or अपर्याप्त उपचार can lead to more serious symptoms, which can be disabling and difficult to treat.
Penises of minke whales on display at the Icelandic Phallological Museum
शिश्न ( बहुवचन penises or penes ) is a general term for the organs with which male and hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive females during copulation.
Such organs occur in many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, but males do not bear a penis in every animal species, and in those species in which the male does bear a so-called penis, the penes in the various species are not necessarily homologous.
For example, the शिश्न of a mammal is at most analogous to the penis of a male insect or barnacle.
The term penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs, but not to all ; for example the intromittent organ of most cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, and male spiders use their pedipalps.
In most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis, it has no major function other than intromission, or at least conveying the sperm to the female, but in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal part of the urethra, which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires.
कलाकारों और रंगमंडल ( a & r ) is the प्रभाग of a रिकार्ड लेबल or म्यूज़िक प्रकाशन कम्पनी कि is जिम्मेदार लिये हुनर बालचर और overseeing the कलाकारी विकास of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों and/or songwriters.
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or publishing company ; every activity involving artists to the point of album release is generally considered under the purview of, and responsibility of, A & R.
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and U.S. customary units equal to one-eighth of a mile, equivalent to 220 yards, 660 feet, 40 rods, or 10 chains.
The exact value of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking countries.
Five furlongs are approximately 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a करीब approximation ).
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the circumference of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident with the meridian of longitude passing through Paris ), the circumference of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
CR2032 lithium button cell battery
Lithium 9 वोल्ट, AA, & AAA sizes
Lithium batteries are disposable ( primary ) batteries that have lithium metal or lithium यौगिकों as an anode.
वे stand apart from other batteries in their high charge density ( long life ) and high cost per unit.
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used, lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices.
Raymond `` Ray '' Charles Jack LaMontagne ( ; born June 18, 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne has released four studio albums, Trouble, Till the Sun Turns Black, Gossip in the Grain and परमेश्वर willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise.
He was born in New Hampshire and was inspired to create music after hearing an album by Stephen Stills.
Critics have compared LaMontagne 's music to that of The Band, Van Morrison, Nick Drake, and Tim Buckley.
He lives in मैसाचुसेट्स with his wife and two children.
When the Wind Blows is a novel by James Patterson.
It is the precursor to The झील House and inspired the Maximum Ride series.
the अनोखा is फिलहाल set to be adapted into a movie.
The पिट्सबर्ग Steelers were founded in 1933.
Over the course of the team 's history, the team has had several logos while wearing virtually the same uniforms over the years, with subtle changes made to दे the वर्दी an updated look.
The team colors, uniforms, and logo are often ranked as होने among the best in the NFL.
फेसबुक on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his कॉलेज roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard students, लकिन थी विस्तारित to other colleges in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support for students at various other universities before opening to high school students, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the साईट.
Users must register before using the site, after which they may create a personal profile, add other users as friends, और एक्सचेंज messages, including automatic notifications when they update their profile.
additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, school or college, or other characteristics, and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of September 2012, Facebook has over one अरब active users.
According to a May 2011 उपभोक्ता रिपोर्ट्स सर्वेक्षण, there are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook, and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 compete.com पढ़ाई क्रमित फेसबुक as the most used social networking service by worldwide monthly active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on earth did we stalk our exes, remember our co-workers ' birthdays, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United States, resulting in विशाल amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly unique U.S. visitors in may 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी had a Facebook account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some regions, with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook आखिरकार filed for an initial public offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
अर्विन योहानेस eugen ख़बरों ( 15 नवम्बर 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly ज्ञात as the मरुस्थल फॉक्स ( wüstenfuchs, ), थी a जर्मनी फ़ील्ड मार्शल of संसार युद्ध ii.
He earned the respect of both his own troops and the enemies he fought.
Rommel was a highly decorated officer in World War I and was awarded the डालना le Mérite for his exploits on the Italian front.
In World War II, he further distinguished himself as the commander of the 7th Panzer Division during the 1940 invasion of France.
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North African campaign established him as one of the most able commanders of the war, और अर्जित उसे the appellation of the Desert Fox.
He is regarded as one of the most skilled commanders of desert warfare in the conflict.
He later commanded the German forces opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in normandy.
His assignments never took him to the Eastern Front.
Rommel is regarded as having महरूम a humane and professional officer.
His Afrika Korps was never accused of war crimes, and soldiers captured दौरान his Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
Orders to मार यहूदी सैनिको, civilians and captured commandos were ignored.
Late in the war, Rommel was linked to the conspiracy to assassinate Adolf Hitler.
Since Rommel was a national hero, Hitler desired to eliminate him quietly.
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a साइनाइड गोली, in वापसी for assurances that Rommel 's family would not be persecuted following his death.
Stained कांच प्रतिनिधित्व of the Holy Spirit as a dove, c. 1660.
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors, later elaborated by five intellectual virtues and four other groups of ethical characteristics.
They are : wisdom, understanding, wonder and awe ( fear of the Lord ), counsel, knowledge, fortitude, and piety ( reverence ).
The Earth Day Flag, the latest proposal of John McConnell for a flag of धरती Day
धरती दिन is an सालाना इवेंट, celebrated on April 22, on which events are held worldwide to demonstrate support for environmental protection.
It was first celebrated in 1970, and is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network, and celebrated in more than 192 देशों each year.
In 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in San Francisco, the date proposed was March 21, 1970, the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere.
इस दिन of प्रकृति 's equipoise थी बाद मंजूर in a उदघोषणा हस्ताक्षरित by सचिव सामान्य u thant at the संयुक्त राष्ट्र.
A month later a पृथक धरती दिन थी संस्थापित by संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर gaylord नेल्सन as an पर्यावरणीय teach-in पहला आयोजित on अप्रैल 22, 1970.
Nelson was later awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award in recognition of his work.
While this April 22 Earth Day was focused on the United राज्य, an संगठन शुभारम्भ by डेनिस हेज़, जो was the original national coordinator in 1970, took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations.
Numerous communities celebrate Earth Week, an entire week of क्रियाएँ focused on environmental issues.
Iodine is a chemical element with प्रतीक i और atomic number 53.
The name is from यूनानी ioeidēs, meaning violet or purple, due to the color of elemental iodine vapor.
Iodine and its compounds are primarily used in nutrition, and industrially in the production of acetic acid and certain polymers.
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number, low toxicity, and ease of attachment to organic compounds have made it a part of many X-ray contrast materials in modern medicine.
आयोडीन has only one stable isotope.
A number of iodine radioisotopes are also प्रयुक्त in medical applications.
Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the highly water-soluble iodide ion, I−, which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools.
Like the other halogens, free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic molecule I2, and then only momentarily after being oxidized from iodide by an oxidant जैसे free oxygen.
In the universe and on Earth, iodine 's high atomic number makes it a relatively rare element.
However, its presence in ocean water has given it a भूमिका in biology.
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by life in biological functions ( only tungsten, employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria, is heavier ).
आयोडीन 's rarity in अनेक soils, due to आरंभिक कम प्रचुरता as a crust-element, और भी leaching of घुलनशील आयोडाइड by rainwater, रै led to अनेक कमियां समस्याएं in जमीन पशु और अंतर्देशीय human populations.
Iodine deficiency affects about two billion people and is the अग्रणी preventable cause of intellectual disabilities.
Iodine is required by higher animals, which use it to synthesize thyroid hormones, which contain the element.
Because of this function, radioisotopes of iodine are concentrated in the thyroid gland along with nonradioactive iodine.
If inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, जिससे रै a high fission product yield, concentrates in the thyroid, but is easily remedied with potassium iodide treatment.
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of attempting to influence decisions made by officials in the government, most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies.
Lobbying is done by many different types of people and organized groups, including individuals in the private sector, corporations, fellow legislators or government officials, or advocacy groups ( interest groups ).
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies, meaning a voter or bloc of voters within his or her electoral district, or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a business, or not.
Professional lobbyists are people whose business is trying to influence विधान on निमित्त of a group or individual who hires them.
individuals और nonprofit संगठन can भी लॉबी as an अधिनियम of स्वयंसेवा or as a छोटी भाग of उनके सामान्य जॉब ( लिये उदाहरण, a सीईओ बैठक साथ a प्रतिनिधि परिचय a प्रोजेक्ट महत्वपूर्ण to his/her कम्पनी, or an activist बैठक साथ his/her विधायक in an unpaid क्षमता ).
Governments often define and regulate organized group lobbying that has become influential.
The ethics and morality of lobbying हैं.
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt, when the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic power are corrupting the law ( twisting it away from fairness ) in अनुक्रम to serve their own conflict of interest.
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' interests are duly defended against others ' corruption, or even simply making sure that अल्पसंख्यक interests are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority.
For example, a medical association, or a trade association of health insurance companies, may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the influence of tobacco companies, in which case the lobbying होता be viewed by most people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ).
The difficulty in drawing उद्देश्य लाइनों between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' and which ones are `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with which lobbyists or their clients can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At heart, the effort to influence विधान is a power struggle.
As in other forms of power struggle, such as war or law enforcement, motives range from to self-defense to fighting for justice, and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization.
Sunshine of your love guitar riff
Cream were a 1960s British rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce, guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton, and drummer Ginger Baker.
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock, hard rock और साइकेडेलिक rock, combining the psychedelia-themed lyrics, Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing and vocals, Jack Bruce 's voice and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming.
The group 's third album, Wheels of Fire, was the world 's first platinum-selling double album.
Cream are widely regarded as being the world 's first successful supergroup.
In उनके करियर, वे बेची over 15 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
Cream 's music included songs based on traditional blues such as `` Crossroads `` and `` Spoonful ``, and modern blues such as `` Born Under a Bad Sign ``, as well as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew ``, `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel फ़्री `` ( UK, number 11 ), `` Sunshine of Your Love `` ( US, number 5 ), `` White Room `` ( US, number 6 ), `` Crossroads '' ( US, number 28 ), and `` Badge `` ( UK, number 18 ).
Cream made a significant impact on the popular music of the time, and, along with Jimi Hendrix, and Terry Kath of Chicago, popularised the use of the wah-wah pedal.
They provided a heavy yet technically निपुण musical theme that foreshadowed and influenced the emergence of British bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s.
The band 's live performances influenced प्रगतिशील rock acts such as Rush.
Cream were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1993.
They were included in both Rolling Stone and VH1 's lists of the `` 100 Greatest Artists of All Time ''.
They were also ranked number 16 on VH1 's `` 100 महानतम Artists of Hard Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters, and starring Ricki Lake, Sonny Bono, Debbie Harry, Michael St. Gerard, Shawn Thompson, Colleen Fitzpatrick, Jerry Stiller, and in his last film role, Divine.
Hairspray was a dramatic departure from Waters ' earlier works, साथ a much broader intended audience.
In fact, Hairsprays PG is the mildest दरजा a Waters film has received ; most of his previous films were rated X by the MPAA.
Set in 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, the film revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' teenager Tracy Turnblad as she pursues stardom as a dancer on a local TV show and रैलियों विरूद्ध जातिगत पृथक्करण.
Hairspray was only a moderate success upon its initial theatrical release, earning a modest सकल of $ 8 million.
However, it managed to attract a larger दर्शक on घर video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic.
Most critics praised the फिल्मी, although some were displeased with the overall campiness.
In 2002, the film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the same name, which won आठ टोनी पुरस्कार, सहित Best Musical in 2003.
A second film version of Hairspray, an adaptation of the stage musical, was also released by New Line Cinema in 2007, which included many changes of scripted items from the original.
The film also ranks # 444 on Empire magazine 's 2008 list of the 500 महानतम movies of all time.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a common name, structure, and doctrine भीतर christianity.
Some groups included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the Catholic Church considers itself the one true church and the Apostolic See, and as pre-denominational ).
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination and do not have any formal denominational structure, authority, or record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category.
Some groups are large ( e.g. Catholics, Lutherans, Anglicans or Baptists ), while others are just a few small churches, and in most cases the relative size is not evident in this list.
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity, Pietism, Evangelicalism, Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes cross denominational lines, or in some cases create new denominations out of two or more continuing groups, ( as is the case for many United and uniting churches, for example ).
Such subtleties and complexities are not clearly depicted here.
Major divisions within christianity.
Note : This is not a complete list, but aims to provide a comprehensible overview of the diversity among denominations of Christianity.
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations, many of which can not be verified to be significant, only those denominations with Wikipedia articles will be listed in order to ensure that all entries on this list हैं notable और verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, and comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly called Christian, disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups.
For the purpose of simplicity, this list is intended to प्रतिबिंबित the self-understanding of each denomination.
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as Christian denominations can be found at their संबंधित articles.
There is no official मान्यता in सबसे parts of the world for religious bodies, and there is no official clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies.
Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other churches should be labeled with pejorative शर्तें ऐसे as `` cult '', or about whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability.
Such considerations often vary from place to place, where one religious group may enjoy majority status in one region, but be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another भाग of the world.
समावेश on इस सूची करता नहीं indicate कोई निर्णय परिचय the आकार, महत्व, or अक्षर of a समूह or इसके सदस्यों.
1804 map of `` Louisiana ``, edged on the west by the Rocky Mountains.
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` Sale of Louisiana '' ) was the acquisition by the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana.
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), for a total sum of 15 million dollars ( less than 3 cents per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars, less than 42 सेंट प्रति एकड़ ).
The Louisiana territory encompassed सब or part of 15 present U.S. states and two Canadian provinces.
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas ; the portions of Montana, Wyoming, and Colorado east of the Continental Divide ; Louisiana west of the Mississippi River, including the city of New Orleans ; and small portions of land that would eventually become part of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until 1762, the year it दिया the territory to its ally Spain.
Under Napoleon Bonaparte, France took back the territory in 1800 in the आशा of building an empire in North America.
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending युद्ध with Britain, however, led France to abandon these plans and sell the entire territory to the United States, who had originally intended only to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands.
The purchase of the territory of Louisiana took place during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson.
At the time, the purchase faced domestic opposition because it was thought to be unconstitutional.
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory, Jefferson decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in order to remove France 's presence in the region and to protect both U.S. trade access to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River.
Ceremony at Place d'Armes, New Orleans marking transfer of Louisiana to the United States, 10 March 1804, as depicted by thure de Thulstrup.
`` Cool Jerk '' is a popular song written by डोनाल्ड Storball and originally performed by The Capitols.
Released in 1966, it reached No. 2 on the American R & B chart and No. 7 on the pop chart.
The backing track for this song was actually अंकित ( secretly ) by the Motown house band The Funk Brothers.
Per one of the Funk Brothers, the song was originally to be called `` Pimp Jerk. ''
This was taken from watching neighborhood pimps, who would dance in the clubs, but were too `` cool '' to do the jerk like regular folks.
Their version was subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk. ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word pimp in the title would be banned or not receive much positive attention, and had the title changed to its current form.
The Go-Go 's, Todd Rundgren, Big Trouble, Human Sexual Response, The La De da 's, the Creation, and The Coasters have covered the song.
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd time signature ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky feel to the song.
The Go-Go 's covered the song for their 1982 एल्बम अवकाश and later re-recorded it for their 1990 album Greatest.
In the feature film Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York, Uncle Frank ( Gerry bamman ) sings `` Cool Jerk '' in the shower.
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` Do the Cool Whip '' ) is used in Cool Whip commercials.
A recording of `` Cool Jerk '' by Ricardo Ray is featured in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
The song features in the film Standing in the Shadows of Motown, performed by the Funk Brothers साथ lead vocals by Bootsy Collins.
The song is सुना briefly in the animated feature, Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted.
despite this reason, it is listed in some variations of the film 's soundtrack.
A league is a unit of length ( or, rarely, क्षेत्रफल ).
it थी long आम in यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका, लकिन it is no longer an आधिकारिक ईकाई in कोई स्वदेश.
The लीग originally referred to the distance a person could walk in an hour.
चूंकि the मध्य आयु, अनेक मान have महरूम निर्दिष्ट in अनेक देशों.
In the context of nautical distances, the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of average height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level.
Thus, a ship traveling one `` league '' has पहुँचे what was previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon.
The lack of a historical and वैश्विक मानक लिये the सटीक माप of a `` लीग '' can be accounted लिये by the परिवर्तनीय उन्नयन of the निरीक्षक ( i.e., sightings इससे a जलयान 's डेक vs. masthead ).
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State, a dominion of the British Commonwealth, having seceded इससे the संयुक्त Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty.
It comprises 26 of आयरलैंड 's 32 counties.
Since 1949 it has existed as the गणतंत्र of Ireland.
इससे इसके न्यास, the Irish Free State was embroiled in a civil war between nationalists supporting the Treaty and opponents who supported a republic.
The pro-Treaty side, organised as Cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious from the विरोध and won subsequent elections.
They formed the government of the state until 1932, when they peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty faction in Fianna Fáil, who defeated them in an election.
The Irish state, despite its violent beginnings, has remained a liberal democracy throughout its existence.
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the links with Britain established अंतर्गत the सन्धि और आयरलैंड 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain.
In 1948 आयरलैंड formally बाएँ the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल और अपनाया the शीर्षक of `` गणतंत्र ''.
In the आर्थिक गोला, the Irish state has had a mixed performance.
On independence, it was one of the wealthier countries in Europe per head of जनसांख्यिकी.
However it also inherited from British rule the problems of बेरोजगारी, emigration, uneven geographical development and lack of a native industrial base.
For much of its इतिहास, the state struggled to rectify these problems.
Particular peaks of emigration were recorded during the late 1930s, 1950s and 1980s, when the Irish economy recorded little growth.
In the 1930s, Fianna Fáil governments attempted to create Irish domestic industries using subsidies and protective tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these policies were dropped in favour of free trade with selected countries and प्रोत्साहित of foreign investment with low taxes.
This was expanded when Ireland entered the European Economic जातियाँ in 1972.
In the 1990s and 2000s, Ireland experienced an economic boom known as the Celtic Tiger, in which the country 's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours.
Immigration also surpassed emigration, bringing the state 's population up to over 4 million.
however, चूंकि 2008, Ireland has experienced a severe crisis in the banking sector and with sovereign debt.
The resultant economic slump has deepened the effect of the world recession on Ireland.
From 1937 to 1998, the Irish constitution included a claim on Northern Ireland as a part of the national territory.
However, the state also opposed and used its security forces against those armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army, who tried to unite Ireland by force.
This occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s and 1980s and has जारी on a reduced scale.
Irish governments meanwhile tried to broker an agreement to the conflict known as The Troubles within Northern Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s.
The British government officially recognised the right of the Irish government to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985.
In 1998, as part of the Good Friday Agreement, the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to Northern Ireland and instead extend the right of Irish citizenship to all the people of the island should they wish to have it.
John Quincy Adams ( July 11, 1767February 23, 1848 ) was the sixth President of the United States ( 1825–1829 ).
He परोसा as American diplomat, Senator, and Congressional representative.
He was a member of the Federalist, Democratic-Republican, नेशनल रिपब्लिकन, and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties.
Adams was the son of former President John Adams and Abigail Adams.
As a diplomat, Adams played an महत्वपूर्ण role in negotiating many international treaties, most notably the Treaty of Ghent, which ended the War of 1812.
As Secretary of State, he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's उत्तरी border with Canada, negotiated with Spain the annexation of Florida, and authored the Monroe Doctrine.
Historians agree he was one of the greatest diplomats and secretaries of state in American इतिहास.
As अध्यक्ष, he sought to modernize the American economy and promoted education.
Adams enacted a part of उसके agenda and paid off much of the national debt.
He was stymied by a Congress controlled by his enemies, and his lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him.
He lost उसके 1828 बोली for re-election to Andrew Jackson.
In doing so, he became the first president since his father to serve a single term.
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's foreign policy in line with his ardently nationalist commitment to America 's republican values.
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed Adams as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization.
During Adams ' lifetime, technological innovations and new means of communication spread messages of religious revival, social reform, and party politics.
Goods, money, and लोगों traveled more rapidly and efficiently than ever before.
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts after leaving office, serving for the last 17 years of his life with far greater acclamation than he had achieved as president.
He is, so far, the only president later elected to the United राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( हालांकि जॉन टायलर was elected to the House of Representatives of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ).
एनिमेटेड by his growing revulsion against slavery, Adams became a leading opponent of the Slave Power.
He predicted that if a civil war were to break out, the president could abolish slavery by using his war powers.
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery issue, but said that if the South became independent there would be a series of bloody slave revolts.
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web browser from Microsoft.
It was released to the public on March 14, 2011.
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band version that is not tied to the release schedule of any particular version of Windows, unlike previous versions.
It is the first version since Internet Explorer 2 to not be bundled with a Windows operating system, although some OEMs have installed it with Windows 7 on उनके pcs, as well as new Windows 7 laptops.
The system आवश्यकताएँ for Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Vista Service Pack 2 or Windows Server 2008 SP2 with the Platform Update.
Windows XP and earlier are not समर्थित.
अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 is the पिछला संस्करण of अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर to be समर्थित on खिड़कियाँ विस्टा.
Both IA-32 and x64 builds are available.
Internet Explorer 9 supports several CSS 3 properties, embedded ICC v2 or v4 color profiles support via Windows Color System, and has improved JavaScript performance.
It is the last of the five major web browsers to implement support for Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ).
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D, hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite, hardware-accelerated video rendering using Media Foundation, imaging support provided by Windows इमेजिंग घटक, and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline.
अंतरजाल Explorer 9 also supports the HTML5 video and audio tags and the Web Open Font Format.
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. मील Medicine Company.
It was developed by Maurice Treener, head chemist at Miles, in Elkhart, Indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of नाबालिग aches, pains, inflammation, fever, headache, heartburn, sour stomach, indigestion, and hangovers, while neutralizing excess stomach acid.
It थी शुभारम्भ in 1931.
a spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and flu, Alka-Seltzer Plus, was later introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant, Alka-Mints, was introduced in 1994 and discontinued in 1997.
Alka-Seltzer is currently owned by बायर schering Pharma AG, Germany.
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications sold over the counter and taken by means of rapidly dissolving tablets that form a carbonated solution in water.
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus टैब्लेट dissolving in water
Image showing the six most common speleothems with labels.
Enlarge to view लेबल्स.
A stalactite (, ; from the Greek stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', and meaning `` that which drips '' ) is a type of speleothem ( secondary mineral ) that hangs from the ceiling of limestone caves.
It is a type of dripstone.
The corresponding formation on the floor of the गुफा is known as a stalagmite.
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an academic degree instead of spelling out the title in full, such as in reference books like Who 's Who and on business cards.
Many degrees have more than one abbreviation.
in the uk, it is नहीं generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for degrees with full stops ( e.g. `` BSc '' rather than `` B.Sc. ``.
रेस is a वर्गीकरण system used to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical, cultural, ethnic, genetic, geographical, historical, linguistic, religious, or social affiliation.
First used to denote national affiliations, the term began to be प्रयुक्त to relate to physical traits in the 17th century.
In the early 20th century the term was often used, in a taxonomic sense, to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype.
While biologists sometimes use the concept of race to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits, others in the scientific community suggest that the idea of race often is used in a naive or simplistic way, i.e. that among humans, race has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the same species, Homo sapiens and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary over time, involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals आधारित on perceived traits.
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage racial explanations for collective differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the ideologies and theories that grew out of the work of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists has led to the use of the word race itself becoming problematic.
Although still used in general contexts, it is अभी प्रायः replaced by अन्य words which are less ambiguous and emotionally charged, such as populations, people ( s ), ethnic groups or communities depending on context.
Lucy Stone ( August 13, 1818 – October 19, 1893 ) was a prominent American abolitionist और suffragist, and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women.
In 1847, Stone became the first woman from Massachusetts to earn a college degree.
She spoke आउट for women 's rights and against slavery at a time when women were discouraged and prevented from public speaking.
Stone was the first recorded American स्त्री to retain her own last name after marriage.
Stone 's organizational activities for the cause of women 's rights yielded tangible gains in the difficult political पर्यावरण of the 19th century.
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's Rights सम्मेलन and she supported and sustained it annually along with a number of other local, state and regional activist conventions.
Stone spoke in front of a क्रमांक of विधान bodies to promote laws giving more rights to women.
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery, after which she helped form the largest group of like-minded women 's rights reformers, the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association, जिससे worked लिये दशकों at the राज्य level in favor of women 's right to vote.
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's rights, publishing and distributing speeches by herself and others, and convention proceedings.
In the long-running and influential Woman 's Journal, a weekly periodical that she स्थापित और प्रचारित, Stone aired both her own and differing views about women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the woman 's rights movement '', Stone delivered a speech which sparked Susan B. Anthony to take up the cause of women 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was the first person by whom the heart of the American public was deeply stirred on the woman question. ''
Together, Anthony, Stanton, and Stone have been called the 19th century `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
In finance, a bond is an instrument of indebtedness of the bond issuer to the holders.
It is a debt security, under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and, depending on the terms of the bond, is obliged to अदा उन्हें ब्याज ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date, termed the maturity.
Interest is usually payable at fixed intervals ( semiannual, annual, sometimes monthly ).
Very often the bond is परक्राम्य, i.e. the ownership of the instrument can be transferred in the secondary market.
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the होल्डर of the bond is the lender ( creditor ), the issuer of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ), and the coupon is the interest.
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance long-term निवेश, or, in the case of government bonds, to finance current expenditure.
प्रमाणपत्र of जमा ( cds ) or छोटी पद वाणिज्यिक पेपर हैं माना to be धन मार्केट यंत्र और नहीं bonds : the प्रमुख अंतर is in the लंबाई of the पद of the यंत्र.
Bonds and stocks are both securities, but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an equity stake in the company ( i.e. they are owners ), whereas bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e. वे हैं lenders ).
Another difference is that bonds usually have a defined term, or maturity, after which the बंध is redeemed, whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely.
An exception is an irredeemable bond, such as Consols, which is a perpetuity, i.e. a bond with no maturity.
A scale model of the मीनार of London.
This model can be मिला inside the tower.
Scale model of water powered टर्बाइन
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet Tahoe, 1:43 Ford F-100, 1:25 Revell Monogram 1999 घाट mustang Cobra, 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
मॉडल ships and castle
A scale model is a physical model, a representation or copy of an object that is larger or smaller than the वास्तविक size of the object, which seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object.
Very often the scale model is used as a guide to making the object in full size.
स्केल मॉडल हैं built or collected for many reasons.
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the zune उत्पाद परिवार released on September 15, 2009 by Microsoft.
It was a direct competitor with the Apple iPod and iphone श्रेणी of mobile devices.
It was initially released in 16 and 32 GB capacities.
A 64 gb संस्करण थी released on अप्रैल 9, 2010.
It utilized a टचस्क्रीन इंटरफ़ेस लिये नेविगेशन and included Wi-Fi for synchronization, access to the Zune Marketplace and Web browsing.
The Zune HD utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX 2600 chip, allowing it to play 720p video through the optional HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, content would be scaled bas to 480x272 pixels on the player 's OLED touchscreen.
बूढ़ा Sparky, the electric chair used at Sing Sing prison
निष्पादन by electrocution, usually performed using an electric chair, is an execution method originating in the United States in which the condemned person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body.
This execution method was created by employees of Thomas Edison during the War of Currents, and has been used only in the United States and, for a period of several decades, in the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation, last in 1976 ).
Historically, once the condemned person was attached to the chair, various cycles ( differing in voltage and duration ) of alternating current would be passed through the individual 's body, in order to cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ).
The first jolt of electric current was designed to cause तात्कालिक unconsciousness and brain death ; the second one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs.
Death was frequently caused by electrical overstimulation of the heart.
Although in the United States the electric chair has become a symbol of the death penalty, its use is in decline due to the rise of lethal injection, which is widely believed to be a more humane method of execution.
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method of execution, today it is only maintained as a secondary method that may be chosen over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner.
As of 2010, electrocution is an optional form of execution in Alabama, Florida, South Carolina and Virginia.
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal injection as an alternative method.
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee, the electric chair has been retired except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to legislated तिथियाँ in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
In both states, inmates who do not choose electrocution or inmates who committed their crimes after the designated date are killed by lethal injection.
The electric chair is an alternate form of execution approved for potential use in Arkansas and Oklahoma if other forms of execution are मिला unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution.
It is the sole विधि of निष्पादन in वर्मांट, where treason is the only capital crime.
On February 8, 2008, the नेब्रास्का परम् Court determined that execution by electric chair was a `` cruel and unusual punishment '' under the state 's constitution.
इस brought executions of इस प्रकार to an समाप्त in नेब्रास्का, the तभी बाकी राज्य to retain electrocution as इसके एकमात्र विधि of निष्पादन लिये हत्या.
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General Assembly, the state विधानमंडल of the American State of Maryland, and is composed of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts.
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland State House ( state capitol ) on राज्य वृत्त in annapolis, which is the state capital.
The State House also घरों the Maryland State Senate Chamber and the offices of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of Maryland.
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis, in the nearby Casper R. Taylor, Jr. House दफ्तर भवन.
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle for Paris ) took place during World War II from 19 August 1944 until the surrender of the occupying German garrison on 25 August.
The Liberation of Paris started with an uprising by the French प्रतिरोध against the German garrison.
On 24 अगस्त, the French Forces of the Interior ( Forces françaises de l'intérieur, FFI ) received reinforcements from the Free French Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton.
The capital region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the signing of the Second Compiègne Armistice in June 1940, when the German Army occupied northern and westernmost France, and when the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France.
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the exile of the Vichy government to Sigmaringen in Germany.
However, there was still much heavy fighting to be done before France was liberated, including the campaign in southern France during August-September ( in Provence and extending into the southwestern region of the Vosges Mountains ), along the German-held seaports of western France ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ), in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, and in northeastern France, such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers.
The German Army and SS fought doggedly in these areas for the remainder of 1944 और into 1945.
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling Alright '' is a song written by Dave Mason of the English rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 एल्बम, Traffic.
The song was also a hit सिंगल लिये अनेक performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, US # 33 ), Mongo Santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) and Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971, US # 54 ).
It has also been recorded by Three Dog Night ( 1969 ), The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ), Lou Rawls, Freddie King, Paul Weller, Lulu, Chairmen of the Board ( 1970 ), Rare Earth, The Electric Concept Orchestra, Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ), The Ohio Players ( 1971 ), Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo Parker, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes.
A Steel Drum version by Trinidad Oil Company was reissued on the dancefloor jazz compilation Blue Juice 2.
It was also featured in the 2000 film Duets, sung by Huey Lewis.
Both the original and the Joe Cocker cover यहूद featured in the movie Flight, starring Denzel Washington.
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor, आवाज़ कर्ता, सिंगर, songwriter और musician, best known for his starring role as Ned Bigby on the Nickelodeon sitcom Ned 's Declassified School Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules, as the lead character Nolan Byrd.
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the चौथी और final season of the ABC Family show Greek.
Sample view of an electronic health रिकार्ड आधारित on images
Sample view of an electronic स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically सक्षम of being shared across different health care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including जनसांख्यिकी, चिकित्सा history, medication and allergies, immunization status, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital signs, personal stats like age and weight, and billing information.
Loan origination is the process by which a borrower applies for a new loan, and a lender processes that application.
Origination generally includes all the steps from taking a loan application up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ).
Loan servicing covers everything after disbursing the funds until the loan is fully paid off.
Loan origination is a specialized version of new account opening for financial सेवाएं संगठन.
Certain लोगों और organizations specialize in loan origination.
Mortgage brokers and other mortgage originator companies serve as a prominent example.
There are many अलग types of loans.
For more information on loan types, see the loan and consumer lending articles.
Steps involved in originating a loan vary by loan type, various kinds of loan risk, regulator, lender policy, and other factors.
Top left : The Tennessee Valley Authority, part of the New Deal, being signed into law in 1933.
शीर्ष सही : फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट, जो थी जिम्मेदार लिये पहलों और कार्यक्रम collectively ज्ञात as the नई सौदे.
नीचे : a पब्लिक भित्ति इससे एक of the कलाकारों employed by the नई सौदे.
The New सौदे was a series of economic programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936.
They involved presidential executive orders or laws passed by Congress during the first term of President फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt.
The programs were in response to the Great Depression, and केन्द्रित on कया इतिहासकारों call the `` 3 Rs '' : Relief, Recovery, and Reform.
That is राहत for the unemployed and poor ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels ; and Reform of the financial system to prevent a repeat depression.
The New Deal produced a political realignment, making the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party that held the White House for seven out of nine Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ), with its base in liberal ideas, the white South, traditional Democrats, big city machines, and the newly सशक्त labor unions and ethnic minorities.
The Republicans were split, with conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as an enemy of business and growth, and liberals accepting some of it and promising to make it more efficient.
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal Coalition that dominated most presidential elections into the 1960s, while the विपक्ष रूढ़िवादी Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was used for supporters of the New Deal, and `` conservative `` for its opponents.
From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt was assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” majority in Congress ( drawn from two-party, competitive, non-machine, Progressive, and Left party districts ).
As noted by Alexander Hicks, “Roosevelt, backed by rare, non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-Southern Democrat representatives and 71 non-Southern Democrat senators — spelled Second New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New Deal '' ( 1935–38 ), with the second one more liberal and more controversial.
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with diverse groups, from banking and railroads to industry and farming, all of which demanded help for economic survival.
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration, for instance, provided $ 500 million for relief operations by states and cities, while the short-lived CWA ( Civil Works Administration ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34.
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions, the Works Progress Administration ( WPA ) relief program ( which made the federal government by far the largest single employer in the nation ), the Social Security Act, and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers.
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States Housing प्राधिकार and Farm Security Administration, both in 1937, and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, which set maximum hours and minimum wages for most categories of workers.
The economic downturn of 1937–38, and the bitter split between the AFL and CIO labor unions led to major Republican gains in Congress in 1938.
रूढ़िवादी Republicans and Democrats in Congress joined in the informal Conservative Coalition.
by 1942–43 वे shut bas राहत कार्यक्रम ऐसे as the wpa और ccc और अवरोधित प्रमुख उदार प्रस्ताव.
Roosevelt himself turned his attention to the युद्ध प्रयत्न, and won reelection in 1940 and 1944.
The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA ) and the first version of the Agricultural Adjustment Act ( AAA ) unconstitutional, however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld.
As the first Republican president elected after FDR, Dwight D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) left the New सौदे largely intact, even expanding it in some areas.
In the 1960s, lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the New Deal as inspiration for a dramatic expansion of liberal programs, which Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained.
After 1974, however, the call for deregulation of the economy gained bipartisan support.
The New Deal regulation of banking ( Glass–Steagall Act ) was suspended in the 1990s.
Many New Deal कार्यक्रम remain क्रियाशील, साथ कुछ स्टिल ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the असली names, सहित the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम ( fdic ), the संघीय क्रॉप बीमे निगम ( fcic ), the संघीय आवास प्रशासन ( fha ), और the टेनेसी घाटी प्राधिकार ( त्व ).
The largest programs still in existence today are the Social Security System and the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).
A woman ( ), pl : women ( ) is a female human.
The term woman is usually reserved for an adult, with the term girl being the usual term for a female child or adolescent.
however, the पद स्त्री is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त to पहचानो a मादा इंसान, regardless of आयु, as in वाक्यांश ऐसे as `` महिलाओं 's अधिकारों ``.
Women are typically capable of giving birth, though older women who have gone through menopause and some intersex women can not.
`` I Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a song performed by American rock band एरोस्मिथ लिये the 1998 फिल्मी Armageddon.
Written by Diane Warren, the song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 ( the first # 1 for the band after 28 years together ).
The song stayed at number one for four weeks from September 5 to सितंबर 26, 1998.
The song also stayed at क्रमांक 1 for several weeks in several other countries.
in the uk, the सोंग peaked at क्रमांक चार, बनने एरोस्मिथ 's उच्चतम charting सोंग in the uk, जहाँ it थी the 17th best-selling सिंगल of 1998, और रै बेची over a लाख copies.
Although not used by the majority of the world 's countries, daylight saving time is common in the Western world.
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time in British English — is the practice of advancing clocks during the lighter months so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less.
Typically clocks are adjusted आगे one hour near the start of spring and are adjusted backward in autumn.
The modern idea of daylight saving was first proposed in 1895 by George Vernon Hudson and it was first implemented during the First World War.
Many देशों have used it at various times since then.
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s and 1960s, and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy crisis and has been widely used in North America and Europe since then.
The practice has been both praised and criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing, sports, and other activities that exploit sunlight after working hours, but can cause problems for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun.
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a primary use of electricity ), modern heating and cooling usage patterns differ greatly, and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory.
DST clock shifts उपस्थित other challenges.
They complicate timekeeping, and can disrupt meetings, travel, billing, record keeping, medical devices, heavy equipment, and sleep patterns.
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically, but this can be limited and error-prone, particularly when DST dates are बदला.
Floorplan of the Château de Montargis
Montargis is a commune in the Loiret department in north-central फ़्रांस on the loing river.
The town is located about south of Paris and east of Orléans in the Gâtinais.
Montargis is the second largest city in the loiret, after Orléans.
It is near a large forest, and contains light industry and खेती, including saffron.
due to इसके numerous नहरों और पुलों, montargis sometimes बिल्स itself as the `` वेनिस of the gâtinais. ''
Though quite modern, it retains a medieval charm in its downtown area.
In computer storage, a लॉजिकल ईकाई क्रमांक, or lun, is a क्रमांक used to identify a logical unit, which is a device addressed by the SCSI protocol or protocols which encapsulate SCSI, such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI.
A LUN may be used with any device which supports read/write operations, such as a tape drive, but is most often used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN.
Though not technically correct, the term `` LUN '' is often also used to refer to the logical disk itself.
The Gospel According to Mark (,, to euangelion kata Markon ), commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark or simply Mark, is the second book of the New Testament.
This canonical account of the life of Jesus of नासरत is one of the three synoptic gospels.
It was thought to be an epitome, which accounts for इसके place as the second gospel in the Bible.
however, most contemporary scholars now regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That Mark was used as a source for the other synoptic gospels Gospel of Matthew and Gospel of Luke is widely held by many, although not सब, नई Testament scholars.
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus from his baptism by John the Baptist to his death and resurrection.
It focuses विशेषकर on the last week of his life ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem.
Its swift narrative portrays Jesus as a heroic man of action, an exorcist, healer and miracle worker.
An important थीम of चिह्नित is the Messianic Secret.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, tries unsuccessfully to keep his messianic identity secret, and conceals his message with parables.
Meanwhile, the disciples fail to understand both the implication of the miracles of Jesus and the meaning of the things he predicts about his arrest, death and resurrection.
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 with the डिस्कवरी of Jesus ' empty tomb and that the following account of his resurrection appearances is a later addition.
According to tradition and some early church writers, the author is Mark the Evangelist, the companion of the apostle Peter.
The gospel, however, appears to rely on अनेक underlying स्त्रोत, varying in form and in theology, which tells against the tradition that the gospel was based on Peter 's preaching.
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as well as known apostolic preachings, and pre-existing written records that do not exist today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators.
Some of the stories in the gospel may have been transmitted orally before being लिखा bas.
Various elements within the gospel suggest that the author wrote in Syria or Palestine for a non-Jewish Christian community.
The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy अनोखा written by English philologist and University of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien.
The story began as a sequel to tolkien 's 1937 children 's काल्पनिक अनोखा the होब्बिट, लकिन आखिरकार विकसित into a much larger कार्य.
It was written in stages between 1937 and 1949, much of it during World War II.
It is the second best-selling novel ever written, with over 150 million copies sold.
The title of the novel refers to the स्टोरी 's प्रमुख विपक्षी, the Dark Lord Sauron, who had in an earlier age created the One Ring to rule the other Rings of Power as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth.
From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a Hobbit land not unlike the English countryside, the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, notably the hobbits Frodo Baggins, Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee, Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck and Peregrin `` Pippin '' Took, but also the hobbits ' chief allies and travelling companions : Aragorn, a Human Ranger ; Boromir, a man इससे gondor ; gimli, a बौना योद्धा ; Legolas, an Elven prince ; and Gandalf, a Wizard.
The work was initially intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume set, with the other being The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
It was decided for economic reasons to publish The Lord of the बजती as three volumes over the course of a year from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955, thus creating the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy.
The three volumes were entitled The Fellowship of the रिंग, the दो Towers, and The Return of the King.
Structurally, the novel is divided internally into six books, two per volume, with several appendices of background material included at the end of the third volume.
The Lord of the Rings has since महरूम reprinted numerous times and translated into many languages.
Tolkien 's work has been the subject of extensive analysis of its themes and origins.
Although a major work in itself, the story was only the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien had worked on since 1917, in a process he described as mythopoeia.
Influences on this earlier work, and on the story of The Lord of the Rings, include philology, mythology, religion and the author 's distaste for the effects of industrialization, as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I.
The रब of the बजती in इसके फेरे is माना to have had a great effect on modern fantasy ; the impact of Tolkien 's works is such that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture, the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien 's works, and the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works.
The Lord of the Rings has प्रेरित, और continues to inspire, artwork, music, films and television, video games, and subsequent literature.
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been बना for radio, theatre, and film.
The following is an episode list for the निकलोडियन sitcom Drake & Josh.
The series debuted on January 11, 2004.
A TV film मैरी क्रिसमस, Drake & Josh was made apart from the regular series on December 5, 2008.
There are a total of 60 episodes were produced spanning four seasons.
Drake Bell, Josh Peck, and Miranda Cosgrove were the only actors to appear in all 60 episodes.
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp at the team 's headquarters and practice facility in Santa Clara, California in August 2010.
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the exception of quarterback Alex Smith, who is in a black jersey ; the defense in white.
In the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग, training camp refers to the time before the season commences.
During this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an outside स्थान, प्रायः a विश्वविद्यालयों, to conduct training camp for at least the first few weeks.
This is similar to बेसबॉल 's spring training.
प्रशिक्षण camp is used in several different ways.
New players और कोच उपयोग it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and systems.
For younger players, it serves as a period of evaluation ; for veterans, it is time to गोलाकार back into form.
Training camp is divided into several different components.
the पहला is scrimmages.
These are pseudo-games where teams run nearly full games ' worth of plays.
Sometimes, two practice sessions are held on the same day.
इस अवधारणा is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of training camp include drills, बैठक साथ कोच और other players at one 's position, weight training, and pre-season games.
the latter half of training camp leads directly into the exhibition season.
With NFL training camps starting in late-july, the biggest concern has been dehydration.
In 2001, Minnesota Vikings player Korey Stringer died of a medical condition based from dehydration और heatstroke.
The death of Stringer prompted the NFL to change their training policies.
At each practice, every team must have the team doctor and trainers on the field ; additionally, an ambulance must be present during practices.
With NFL training camps beginning in late July, severe weather can affect practice and exhibition games.
In 2002, a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to lightning near Cleveland Browns Stadium, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to catch an early look at the players ; admission to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game ticket, making training camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many खेल due to financial or other reasons.
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at camp sites along with offering activities and events to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience.
In computing, a file system ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store which can be used to store, retrieve और अद्यतन a set of files.
The term could refer to the abstract data structures used to define files, or to the actual software or firmware components that implement the abstract ideas.
Some file systems are used on local data storage devices ; others provide file access via a network प्रोटोकॉल ( e.g. NFS, SMB, or 9P clients ).
Some file systems हैं `` आभासी '', in that the `` files '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g. procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store.
The file system manages access to both the content of files and the metadata about those files.
It is जिम्मेदार for arranging storage space ; reliability, efficiency, and tuning with regard to the physical storage medium are important design considerations.
William Howard Taft ( September 15, 1857 – March 8, 1930 ) was the 27th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the only person to have served in both of ये offices.
Before becoming President, taft, a रिपब्लिकन, was selected to serve on the Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, taft थी नियुक्त Solicitor General of the United States and in 1891 a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
In 1900, President William McKinley नियुक्त Taft Governor-General of the Philippines.
in 1904, अध्यक्ष थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट नियुक्त taft सचिव of युद्ध in an प्रयत्न to दूल्हे taft, तब उसके बंद राजनैतिक ally, into उसके handpicked अध्यक्षीय successor.
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on some occasions the role of acting Secretary of State, while declining repeated offers from Roosevelt to serve on the Supreme Court.
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt, Taft won an easy विजय in his 1908 bid for the presidency.
In his only term, Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting, सिविल service reform, strengthening the Interstate Commerce Commission, improving the performance of the postal service, and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Abroad, Taft sought to further the economic development of nations in Latin अमेरिका और एशिया through `` Dollar Diplomacy ``, and showed decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico.
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political ramifications of his decisions, often alienated his own key constituencies, and was overwhelmingly defeated in his bid for a second term in the presidential election of 1912.
In surveys of presidential scholars, Taft is usually ranked near the middle of सूचियाँ of all American Presidents.
After leaving office, Taft spent his time in academia, arbitration, and the search for world peace through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace.
In 1921, after the First World War, President Warren G. Harding appointed Taft Chief Justice of the United States.
Taft served in this capacity until shortly before his death in 1930.
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus, in जिससे the hebrew-born मूसा, an adopted Egyptian prince, becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves.
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role, Yul Brynner as his adoptive brother, Pharaoh Rameses II, Anne बैक्सटर as nefretiri, Edward G. Robinson as Dathan, Yvonne De Carlo as Sephora, Debra Paget as Lilia, and John Derek as Joshua.
The supporting cast includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh Seti I, Nina Foch as Bithiah, Martha Scott as Yoshebel, Judith Anderson as memnet, विंसेंट दाम as baka, और जॉन carradine as Aaron.
The film was released by Paramount तस्वीरें in VistaVision on October 5, 1956.
The टेन आयतें, जिससे demille narrated, थी the पिछला फिल्मी कि he निर्देशित.
He was set to direct the 1958 remake of उसके 1938 फिल्मी the buccaneer, but his final illness forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law, actor Anthony Quinn.
DeMille had also planned to film the life of Lord Baden Powell, the founder of the Scout movement, with David Niven ; this project was never realized.
The Ten Commandments is a partial remake of demille 's 1923 silent film.
कुछ of the cast and crew of the 1956 version worked on the original.
It has since been remade as a टेलीविज़न miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
The Ten Commandments is one of the most financially successful films ever made, grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. बक्सा दफ्तर.
Adjusting for inflation, this makes it the sixth highest-grossing film domestically, with an adjusted total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
The box office website `` The Numbers '' lists the domestic gross at $ 80 million.
In 1999, The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
In June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed its `` Ten Top Ten `` —the best ten films in ten American film genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the creative community.
The Ten Commandments was listed as the tenth best film in the epic genre.
The film प्राप्त सात अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations सहित बेहतरीन चित्र, और जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन विज़ुअल प्रभाव.
Charlton Heston was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture Actor in the drama category.
Yul Brynner won the National Board of Review Award for Best Actor for his role as Rameses, along with his other roles in The King and I and Anastasia.
Louisville (, or ) is a major city and the largest city in the U.S. state of Kentucky and the county seat of Jefferson County.
चूंकि 2003, the नगर 's सीमायें have महरूम साथ those of the काउंटी क्युकी of a city-county विलय.
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census was 741,096 ( Louisville 's balance कुल, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous towns and is the population listed in most sources and national rankings ).
As of 2010, the Louisville metropolitan क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) had a population of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally.
The मैट्रो क्षेत्रफल includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding counties, eight in Kentucky and four in Southern Indiana ( see Geography below ).
The Louisville Combined Statistical Area, having a population of 1,451,564, includes the MSA, Hardin County and Larue County in Kentucky, and Scott County, Indiana.
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century, louisville आज is best known as the location of the Kentucky Derby, the first of three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown.
A typical प्रायोगिक setup for an aldol reaction.
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C ) the temperature of which is being monitored by a thermocouple ( the wire on the left ).
A cooling bath, in laboratory chemistry ( often but not always organic chemistry ) practice, is a द्रव मिश्रण जिससे is प्रयुक्त to maintain low temperatures, typically between 13 °C and −196 °C.
These low temperatures are used to collect liquids after distillation, to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator, or to perform a chemical reaction below room temperature ( see : kinetic control ).
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen, water, or even air ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling agent ( such as dry ice or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'carrier ' ( such as liquid water, ethylene glycol, acetone, etc. ), which transfers heat between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( A familiar example of this is the use of an ice/rock-salt mixture to freeze ice cream.
The phase-change of ice into liquid water requires energy, 'pulling ' heat from the system.
Adding salt lowers the temp at which this happens, meaning more energy has to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice.
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it जरूर 'pull ' more heat from its environment to become liquid. )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or excessive खाना सेवन to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health.
bulimia नर्वोज़ा and anorexia nervosa are the most common specific forms in the United Kingdom.
Other types of eating विकार शामिल binge eating disorder and eating disorder not otherwise specified.
Bulimia nervosa is a disorder characterized by binge eating and purging.
Purging can include self-induce vomiting, over-exercising, and the usage of diuretics, enemas, and laxatives.
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to the point of self-starvation and excessive weight loss.
Though primarily thought of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10 million being affected in the U.K. ), eating disorders affect males as well.
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people with eating disorders are males ( Gorgan, 1999 ).
( an अनुमानित 1 लाख U.K. males being affected ).
Although eating disorders are increasing सब over the संसार among both men and women, there is evidence to suggest that it is women in the Western world who are at the highest risk of developing them and the degree of westernization increases the risk.
Nearly half of all Americans personally know someone with an खाने disorder.
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously since leptin was discovered, and the skill to observe the functions of the दिमाग as well.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic and self-regulatory control processes are involved in eating behaviour, which is a key component in eating disorders.
The precise cause of eating विकार is नहीं entirely understood, but there is evidence that it may be linked to other medical conditions and situations.
Cultural idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to eating disorders affecting diverse populations.
One study showed that girls with ADHD have a greater chance of getting an eating disorder than those not affected by ADHD.
Another study suggested that women with PTSD, especially due to sexually related trauma, are more likely to develop anorexia nervosa.
One study showed that फोस्टर girls are more likely to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some think that पीर pressure and idealized body-types seen in the media are also a significant factor.
Some research show that for certain people there are genetic reasons why they may be prone to developing an eating disorder.
Recent studies have मिला प्रमाण a सहसंबंध between patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders.
In addition, anxiety disorders and personality disorders are common occurrences with clients of eating disorders.
While proper treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from specific types of eating disorders, the consequences of eating disorders can be कठोर, सहित death ( whether from direct medical effects of disturbed eating habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal thinking ).
Slavery in the United States existed from the early years of the colonial period ; it was firmly established by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776.
However, by 1804, all states north of the Mason and Dixon Line had either abolished slavery outright or passed laws for the gradual abolition of slavery.
In 1787 Congress निषिद्ध slavery in the Northwest Territory.
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton industry after 1800, and विस्तारित into the Southwest.
The nation was polarized into slave and free states along the Mason-Dixon Line, which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The United States and Great Britain both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808, but the domestic trade, with sales to the Deep South, expanded dramatically, and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade.
Before the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending slavery and its विस्तार into the territories.
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as sinful, and numerous anti-slavery forces rejected it as detrimental to the rights of फ़्री men.
After failed compromises and Abraham Lincoln 's election, in 1861 eleven slave states broke away to form the Confederate States of America, leading to the American Civil War.
The federal government in 1862 made abolition of गुलामी a war goal.
In January 1863 President Lincoln freed slaves in the Confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation.
After the war, the Thirteenth Amendment, effective December 1865, abolished slavery throughout the entire United States, including the Border states and the Indian territories.
From the 16th to the 19th centuries, an estimated 12 million Africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas.
See Slavery in the Americas.
The great majority went to the sugar plantations of the West Indies or Brazil, where mortality was high.
About 645,000 were brought to what is now the United States.
By the 1860 United States Census, the slave population in the American South had grown to four million.
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 slave states, nearly 400,000 held slaves ( roughly one in four ), amounting to 8 % of all American परिवारों.
While some slaves worked as house servants and urban artisans, the great majority worked on plantations or large farms, cultivating lucrative cash crops, such as rice, tobacco, sugar and, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
By 1860 most slaves were held in the Deep South, where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton.
In small परिचालन, they worked with their owners.
In large plantations they were निर्देशित by white paid overseers.
अंतर्गत the प्रणाली कि became chattel slavery ( ownership of a human being, and of his/her descendants ), a racial element was fundamental : slaves were blacks of African descent and owned, almost universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, Virginia, followed by other southern colonies, enacted law that children of slave mothers were born into slavery.
Slaves could gain freedom only by running दूर ( जिससे थी मुश्किल और illegal to do ), or by manumission by owners, which was regulated by states, and became increasingly difficult or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also organized work by a system of bonded labor ज्ञात as indentured servitude.
This typically lasted for several years for both poor europeans and Africans alike, to pay off the costs of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for such arrangements because of ग़रीब economies in their home countries.
Between 1680 and 1700, as fewer europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to import more Africans as slaves.
Recognizing the importance of slavery, the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave code in 1705 ; it combined a variety of विधान और added नई provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law.
schematic क्रॉस खण्ड of भाग of पत्ता, जाइलम दिखाया as रेड वृत्त at फिगर 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of transport ऊतक in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ).
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is लकडी, हालांकि it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to transport water, लकिन it also transports some nutrients through the plant.
This clock representation shows some of the major units of geological time and definitive events of Earth history.
The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil record of life on Earth ; its upper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ).
Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life ; the Archean and Proterozoic are both eons, the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon.
The two million year Quaternary period, the time of recognizable humans, is too small to be visible at this scale.
the भूगर्भिक समय स्केल is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time, and is used by geologists, paleontologists, and other earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships between events that have occurred throughout Earth 's history.
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with the dates and nomenclature set forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the International Commission on Stratigraphy.
Evidence from radiometric dating indicates that the Earth is about 4.54 billion years old.
The geology or deep time of Earth 's past has been organized into various units according to events which took प्लेस in each period.
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by changes in the composition of strata which correspond to them, indicating major geological or paleontological events, such as mass extinctions.
For example, the boundary between the Cretaceous period and the Paleogene period is defined by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other समूह of जीवन.
Older time spans which predate the reliable fossil रिकार्ड ( पहले the Proterozoic Eon ) are defined by absolute age.
The TI-82 is a graphing calculator made by Texas Instruments.
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more उपयोक्ता दोस्ताना संस्करण of the TI-85, and as a replacement for the TI-81.
It थी the direct predecessor of the TI-83.
It shares with the TI-85 a 6 MHz zilog z80 microprocessor.
Like the TI-81, the TI-82 features a 96x64 pixel display, and the core feature set of the TI-81 with many new सुविधाएँ.
The डाल of वर्ण of the किंग of सेनानी xi.
The King of Fighters लड़ game series, produced by SNK Playmore, includes a wide cast of characters, some of which are taken from other SNK games.
The story takes place in a fictional universe in which an annual series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held.
The first game in the series introduces the initial main character of the series, Kyo Kusanagi, a young Japanese fighter who is the heir to a powerful group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi clan 's enemies, his rival Iori Yagami, and the god Orochi and इसके इंसान अनुसरणकर्ता, among others.
The first four games in the series revolve परिचय these fights, while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a new story arc, revolving around K ', a young man who seeks to destroy the mysterious NESTS organization because they kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him of his past memories, so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control.
In The King of Fighters 2003, a नई अक्षर नामित राख crimson enters the tournament, to steal the powers of the clans who sealed the Orochi in the past for an unknown reason.
A new group of antagonists, known as Those From the Past, भी appears in the series ; they want to obtain Orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to their unknown master.
The plot and the characters came from the Yamata no Orochi legend.
There are also several characters in the games that are parodies or homages to several popular anime, manga, and films.
Merchandise based on the characters has also been released, including action figures and keychains.
The characters have garnered praise from several video game publications लिये the विशेषता of their designs and movesets.
Comments focused on the lack of improvements in some of the characters, but added that the roster is greatly diverse.
Whale युद्धों is a साप्ताहिक अमरीकी documentary-style वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on नवम्बर 7, 2008 on the एनिमल ग्रह केबल चैनल.
The program follows Paul Watson, founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, as he and the crew aboard their various vessels harass Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica.
On January 5, 2013, Animal Planet renewed the series for a sixth season.
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja ) is a Neotropical प्रजाति of त्रिभुज.
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan Eagle which is sometimes known as the New Guinea Harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle.
It is the largest and most powerful raptor found in the Americas, and among the largest extant species of eagles in the world.
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the upper ( emergent ) canopy परत.
Destruction of its natural habitat has seen it vanish from many parts of its former range, and it is nearly extirpated in Central America.
Biological classification, or scientific classification in biology, is a method of scientific taxonomy used to group and categorize organisms into groups such as genus or species.
These समूह are known as taxa ( singular : taxon ).
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of Carolus Linnaeus, who grouped species according to shared physical विशेषताएँ.
ये groupings have चूंकि महरूम संशोधित to improve संगति साथ the darwinian principle of आम descent.
With the परिचय of the cladistic method in the late 20th century, phylogenetic taxonomy in which organisms are grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological similarity, has become common in some areas of biology.
Molecular phylogenetics, which uses DNA sequences as data, has also driven many recent revisions and is likely to continue doing so.
Biological classification belongs to the science of biological systematics.
लेनन 's signature
John Winston Ono Lennon, ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English musician, singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame as a founder member of the Beatles, one of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music.
With Paul McCartney, he formed one of the most celebrated songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born and raised in Liverpool, as a teenager Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; his first band, the quarrymen, evolved into the Beatles in 1960.
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade, Lennon embarked on a solo career that produced the critically acclaimed albums John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine, and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine ``.
After his marriage to Yoko Ono in 1969, he changed his name to John Ono Lennon.
Lennon disengaged himself इससे the music business in 1975 to devote time to raising his infant son Sean, but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy.
He was murdered three weeks after its release.
Lennon revealed a rebellious nature and acerbic wit in his music, writing, drawings, on film and in interviews.
Controversial through his political and peace activism, he moved to New York City in 1971, where his criticism of the Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's administration to deport him, while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units, and as writer, co-writer or performer, he is responsible for 25 number-one singles on the us hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest Britons voted him eighth, and in 2008, रोलिंग स्टोन क्रमित him the fifth-greatest singer of all time.
He was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 and into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994.
Statue of Rip van Winkle in Irvington, New York, not far from `` Sunnyside ``, the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a short story by American author Washington Irving published in 1819, as well as the name of the स्टोरी 's fictional protagonist.
Written जबकि इरविंग थी living in Birmingham, England, it was part of a collection entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon.
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill Mountains, Irving later admitted, `` When I wrote the story, i था never been on the Catskills. ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards, many significant records have been set.
This page only includes the competitive awards won by various artists.
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of रिकॉर्डिंग Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however does include अन्य non-performance related Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional character created and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens.
He is best known for his two television series and film series during the 1980s.
The childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a stage act that quickly led to an HBO खास in 1981.
As the stage performance gained further popularity, Reubens took the character to motion picture with Pee-wee 's Big एडवेंचर in 1985, toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children.
This paved the way for Pee-wee 's Playhouse, an Emmy Award winning children 's श्रेणी कि ran on CBS from 1986-1991.
Another film, Big Top Pee-wee, was released in 1988.
Due to negative media attention following a scandal in 1991, Reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s, and then gradually resurrected it during the following decade.
It was at that time that Reubens addressed plans to write a new Pee-wee फिल्मी, Pee-wee 's Playhouse : The Movie.
In June 2007, Reubens appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the first time since 1991 at Spike TV 's Guys ' Choice Awards.
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a group of teenage friends living in the fictional suburban town of Point Place, Wisconsin, from May 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
It debuted on the Fox television network, first airing on अगस्त 23, 1998, running for eight consecutive seasons, and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18, 2006.
The main teenage cast members were Topher Grace, Mila kunis, Ashton Kutcher, Danny Masterson, Laura Prepon, and Wilmer Valderrama.
The main adult cast members were Debra Jo Rupp, Kurtwood Smith, Don Stark and, during the पहला three seasons, Tanya Roberts.
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Midwestern United States.
It is named after the Kansas River which flows through it, which in turn was named after the Kansa Native American tribe, which inhabited the क्षेत्रफल.
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` people of the south wind, '' although this was probably not the term 's original meaning.
निवासियों of Kansas are called `` Kansans. ''
For thousands of years what is now Kansas was home to numerous and diverse Native American जनजातियों.
Tribes in the Eastern part of the state generally lived in villages साथ the river valleys.
Tribes in the पश्चिमी भाग of the राज्य यहूद सेमi- nomadic और hunted विशाल herds of बाइसन.
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s, but the pace of settlement accelerated in the 1850s, in the midst of political wars over the slavery issue.
When officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854, abolitionist Free-Staters from New England and pro-slavery settlers from neighboring Missouri rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state.
Thus, the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in its early days as these forces collided, and was known as Bleeding Kansas.
The abolitionists आखिरकार prevailed and on January 29, 1861, Kansas entered the Union as a free state.
After the Civil War, the population of Kansas grew rapidly, when waves of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland.
Today, कान्सास is one of the most productive agricultural states, producing high yields of wheat, sorghum and sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th most extensive and the 33rd most populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
मनोविज्ञान is an अकादमिक और लागू अनुशासन कि involves the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of दिमागी कृत्यों और व्यवहार.
Psychology has the immediate goal of understanding individuals and groups by both establishing general principles and researching specific cases, and by many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society.
In this field, a professional or researcher is called a psychologist and can be वर्गीकृत as a social, behavioral, or cognitive scientist.
Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and social behavior, while also exploring the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain संज्ञानात्मक कृत्यों and behaviors.
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception, cognition, attention, emotion, phenomenology, motivation, brain functioning, व्यक्तित्व, बर्ताव, and interpersonal relationships.
Psychologists of विविध stripes also consider the unconscious mind.
psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
In addition, or in opposition, to employing empirical and deductive methods, some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic निर्वचन और अन्य आगमनात्मक तकनीकों.
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '', with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives from the social sciences, natural sciences, medicine, और the मानवता, ऐसे as philosophy.
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatment of mental health problems, it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in many different spheres of human कार्यकलाप.
The majority of psychologists are involved in some kind of therapeutic role, practicing in clinical, counseling, or school settings.
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes और बर्ताव, and typically work in university psychology departments or teach in other academic settings ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings, or in other areas such as human development and aging, sports, health, and the media, as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law.
Thomas जेफरसन ( अप्रैल 13, 1743 ( अप्रैल 2, 1743 o.S. ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) थी an अमरीकी founding पिता, the प्रिंसिपल लेखक of the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता ( 1776 ) और the तीसरा अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1801–1809 ).
At the beginning of the American Revolution, he served in the Continental Congress, representing Virginia and then served as a wartime Governor of Virginia ( 1779–1781 ).
Just after the war ended, from mid-1784 Jefferson served as a diplomat, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the United States Minister to France.
Jefferson was the first United States Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) serving under President George Washington.
With his बंद friend James Madison he organized the Democratic-Republican Party, and subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet.
Elected Vice अध्यक्ष in 1796, जब he आए in दूसरी to जॉन एडम्स of the federalists, जेफरसन opposed एडम्स और साथ मैडिसन secretly लिखा the केंटकी और वर्जिनिया रिज़ॉल्यूशन, जिससे attempted to nullify the एलियन और राजद्रोह अधिनियमों.
Elected president in what Jefferson called the Revolution of 1800, he oversaw the purchase of the vast Louisiana Territory from France ( 1803 ), and sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west.
His second term was beset with troubles at घर, such as the failed treason trial of his former Vice President Aaron Burr.
With escalating trouble with Britain who was challenging American neutrality and threatening shipping at sea, he tried economic warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade.
In 1803, President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the Louisiana Territory west of the Mississippi River, in order to open lands for eventual American settlers.
A leader in the Enlightenment, Jefferson was a polymath who spoke five languages fluently and was deeply interested in science, invention, architecture, religion and philosophy, interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency.
He designed his own large mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation near Charlottesville, Virginia, which he named Monticello.
While not a notable orator, Jefferson was a skilled writer and corresponded with अनेक influential people in America and Europe throughout his adult life.
Though Jefferson owned many slaves, he opposed the institution all his life and consequently treated और took परवाह of उन्हें very well and expected them to work no more than free farmers.
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided over the controversy of whether जेफरसन थी the father of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings, a slave at Monticello. ''
Historians are also in disagreement with how much Jefferson was committed to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, President Jefferson हस्ताक्षरित into law a bill that banned the importation of slaves into the United States.
After Martha Jefferson, his wife of eleven years, died in 1782, Jefferson remained a widower for the rest of his life ; their विवाह उत्पादित छह children, of whom two survived to adulthood.
Though Jefferson has been criticized by many modern day scholars over the issue of slavery, he remains rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song लिखा by Steven Van Zandt, produced by Van Zandt and Arthur Baker and recorded by Artists United Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South African policy of apartheid.
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved would refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun City, a resort which was स्तिथ in bantustan of bophuthatswana, एक of a क्रमांक of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population.
This page is a list of characters in the Police Academy film and television series.
Bill Russell won 11 championships with the Boston सेल्टिक्स.
This is a list of NBA players with most championships won as a player.
The National Basketball संघ ( NBA ) is a major professional basketball league in North America.
It was संस्थापित in 1946 as the Basketball Association of America ( BAA ).
The league adopted its current name at the start of the when it merged with the National Basketball League ( NBL ).
The NBA Finals is the championship series for the NBA and the conclusion of the sport 's postseason.
The winning team of the series receives the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy.
Players from the winning team usually receive championship बजती इससे the टोली honoring their contribution.
However, in some rare occasion, the teams opted to gave other commemorative items, such as wrist watches, बजाय of बजती.
The number of championships won by NBA superstars is often used as a measurement of their greatness.
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the record for the most NBA championships won with 11 titles during his 13-year playing career.
He won his first championship with the बोस्टन Celtics in his rookie year.
Afterwards, he went on to win 10 championships in the next 12 years, including eight consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966.
He won the last two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
Russell 's teammate, Sam जोन्स, जीती 10 championships from 1959 to 1969, the second most in NBA history.
Four Celtics खिलाड़ी, tom heinsohn, K. C. Jones, Satch Sanders and John Havlicek, won eight championships each.
Two अन्य Celtics, Jim Loscutoff and Frank Ramsey, won seven championships each.
Four players, bob cousy, kareem abdul-jabbar, माइकल जॉर्डन और scottie pippen, जीती छह championships प्रत्येक.
Jordan and Pippen are members of the Chicago Bulls team who जीती तीन लगातार championships twice in the 1990s.
Robert Horry and John Salley are the तभी खिलाड़ी to have won the championships with three different teams.
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets, the Los Angeles Lakers and the San Antonio Spurs, while Salley won four championships with the Detroit Pistons, the Bulls and the Lakers.
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only players to win two championships with two different teams in consecutive seasons.
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, while Kerr won consecutive championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement results to the true value, precision to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science, engineering, industry, and statistics, the accuracy of a measurement system is the उपाधि of निकटता of माप of a quantity to that quantity 's actual ( true ) value.
The precision of a measurement system, also called reproducibility or repeatability, is the उपाधि to जिससे repeated measurements under unchanged conditions show the same results.
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial use, they are deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific विधि.
A मापन प्रणाली can be सटीक लकिन नहीं precise, precise लकिन नहीं सटीक, neither, or दोनो.
For example, if an experiment contains a systematic error, then increasing the sample size generally increases precision but does not improve accuracy.
The result would be a consistent yet inaccurate string of results from the flawed experiment.
Eliminating the systematic error improves accuracy but does not change परिशुद्धता.
A measurement system is designated valid if it is both सटीक और precise.
सम्बन्धित शर्तें शामिल bias ( non- random or directed effects caused by a factor or factors unrelated to the independent variable ) and error ( random variability ).
The terminology is also applied to indirect measurements—that is, values obtained by a computational procedure from observed data.
In addition to accuracy and precision, measurements may also have a measurement resolution, which is the smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement.
In the case of full reproducibility, such as when rounding a number to a representable floating point number, the word precision has a meaning not related to reproducibility.
For example, in the IEEE 754-2008 standard it means the number of bits in the significand, so it is used as a measure for the relative accuracy with which an arbitrary number can be represented.
Fuck in its शाब्दिक meaning refers to the act of sexual intercourse.
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The उत्पत्ति of the word is obscure.
It is usually considered to be first attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In आधुनिक usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
There are अनेक common phrases which make use of the word, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Animated, color-coded map showing the various continents and regions.
Depending on the convention and model, some continents may be consolidated or subdivided : for example, Eurasia is most often subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red shades ), while North and South America are sometimes पहचाना as एक अमरीकी continent ( green shades ).
A continent is one of several very large landmasses on Earth.
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they are ( from largest in size to smallest ) : Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia.
In geology, continents are वर्णित by अर्थात् of tectonic plates.
Plate tectonics is the process and study of the movement, collision and division of continents, earlier known as continental drift.
Biker Boyz is a 2003 film about a group of underground motorcycle खीचें racers.
It stars laurence Fishburne, Djimon Hounsou, Derek Luke, Meagan Good, and Larenz Tate and is written and directed by Reggie Rock Bythewood.
it भी सुविधाएँ लिसा bonet, ऑरलैंडो जोन्स, बच्चा चट्टान और वैनेसा घंटी calloway.
For the स्टील Panther song, see Feel the Steel.
Community प्रॉपर्टी is a वैवाहिक property regime that originated in civil law jurisdictions and is now also found in some common law jurisdictions.
The states of the United States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system, which itself was inherited from Spanish law ( a Roman -derived civil law system ) and ultimately from the Visigoths.
जबकि under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial community system of acquests and gains, which replaced the traditional French community of movables and acquests in its civil law system.
मैप of the United States with community property states highlighted in red.
In addition to the highlighted states, Alaska is a separate property state that permits couples to ऑप्ट into a community property arrangement.
In a community property jurisdiction, most property acquired during the marriage ( except for gifts or inheritances ) —the community, or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce, annulment or death.
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence of specific evidence that would point to a contrary conclusion for a particular piece of property.
Division of community property may take place by item, by splitting all items or by मान.
In some jurisdictions, such as California, a 50/50 division of community property is strictly mandated by statute, meaning that the focus then shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property.
In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a divorce court may decree an `` equitable distribution `` of community property, जिससे may परिणाम in an unequal division of such.
in non-community property states property may be divided by equitable distribution.
Generally speaking, the property that each partner brings into the marriage or receives by gift, bequest or devise during marriage is called separate प्रॉपर्टी ( i.e., नहीं community property ).
See division of प्रॉपर्टी.
Division of community debts may not be the same as division of community प्रॉपर्टी.
For example, in California, जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी is required to be divided `` equally '' while community debt is required to be divided `` equitably ''.
Property that is owned by one spouse before the marriage is the separate property of that spouse, unless the property is `` transmuted '' into community property.
The rules for this vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge waving to the crowd at The मॉल shortly after the wedding.
The wedding of Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, और Catherine Middleton took place on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London.
The groom, Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, is the eldest son of Charles, Prince of Wales, and is second in the line of succession to the British Throne and the तख्तों of fifteen other Commonwealth realms.
The bride, Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest of three children of माइकल and Carole Middleton of Bucklebury, Berkshire.
The Dean of वेस्टमिंस्टर, John Hall, presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, conducted the marriage ; Richard Chartres, the Bishop of London, preached the sermon ; and a reading was given by the bride 's brother, James.
William 's best man थी his brother, Prince Harry, while the bride 's sister, Pippa, was maid of honour.
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and groom 's families, as well as many foreign royals, diplomats, and the युगल 's चुनी निजी guests.
After the ceremony, the couple made the traditional appearance on the balcony of बकिंघम Palace.
As Prince William was not the वारिस apparent to the throne, the wedding was not a full state occasion and many details were left to the couple to decide, such as much of the guest list of about 1,900.
Prince William and Kate Middleton met in 2001.
Their engagement on 20 October 2010 थी घोषित on 16 November 2010.
The build-up to the wedding and the अवसर itself आकर्षित much media attention, being compared in many ways with the 1981 marriage of William 's parents.
the अवसर थी a पब्लिक अवकाश in the संयुक्त किंगडम और प्रदर्शित अनेक ceremonial पहलुओं, सहित उपयोग of the राज्य carriages और भूमिकाएँ लिये the पैर गार्ड और household प्यादे.
Events were held around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events across Canada, over 5,000 street parties were held throughout the United Kingdom, and one million people lined the रूट between वेस्टमिंस्टर Abbey and Buckingham Palace.
The ceremony was viewed live by tens of millions more around the संसार, including 72 million on the YouTube Royal Channel.
In the United Kingdom, television audiences peaked at 26.3 million viewers, with a कुल of 36.7 million watching part of the coverage.
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9, 1980 ) is an American television personality, television host, fashion model, and actress.
Minnillo was also named Miss टीन यूएसए in 1998.
She has been a New York -based correspondent for Entertainment Tonight और hosted Total Request Live on MTV.
A hand ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity स्तिथ at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates and humans, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs.
A few other vertebrates such as the कोआला ( जिससे रै दो opposable thumbs on each `` hand '' and fingerprints remarkably similar to human fingerprints ) are often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs.
Hands are the main structures for physically manipulating the environment, used for both gross motor skills ( such as grasping a large object ) and fine motor skills ( such as picking up a small pebble ).
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the body, are the richest source of tactile feedback, and have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands.
Like other paired organs ( eyes, feet, legs ), each hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain hemisphere, so that handedness, or the preferred hand choice for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil, reflects individual brain functioning.
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example, in the context of whether the three digits of the bird hand involved the same homologous loss of two digits as in the dinosaur hand.
The human hand has 27 bones, not including the sesamoid हड्डियों which number varies between people.
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal, intermediate and distal ) of the उंगलियाँ.
The metacarpals are the bones that connects the fingers and the wrist.
प्रत्येक human hand has 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones.
Too Cool was a professional wrestling tag team and former faction most notably active in World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004.
मौलिक digital alarm clock without a radio.
The mark in the top-left of the display indicates that the time is 4:00pm, not 4:00am.
A 1969 radio alarm clock ( Sony Digimatic 8FC-59W ) with an जल्दी mechanical-digital display.
a डिजिटल क्लॉक is a प्रकार of क्लॉक कि प्रदर्शक the समय डिजिटली, i.e. in numerals or अन्य प्रतीकों, as opposed to an एनालॉग क्लॉक, जहाँ the समय is indicated by the स्थितियाँ of घूर्णन hands.
Digital clocks are often associated with electronic drives, but the `` digital '' description refers only to the display, not to the drive mechanism.
( Both एनालॉग और डिजिटल घड़ियाँ can be चलित either mechanically or electronically, लकिन `` घटीयंत्र '' mechanisms साथ डिजिटल प्रदर्शक हैं विरल. )
the biggest डिजिटल clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light Time Level '' ) on the television tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf, Germany.
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, ब्रायन Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an American एनिमेटेड sitcom that features five main voice actors, and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
पुनरावर्ती आवाज़ अभिनेताओं शामिल पैट्रिक warburton, आदम वेस्ट, जॉन G. ब्रेनन, निकोल सुलीवान और जेनिफर tilly, और repeat अतिथि सितारों शामिल फिलिस diller, चार्ल्स durning, फटाफट limbaugh, और फिल lamarr.
Many cast members provide voices for multiple वर्ण.
The voice actors, in portraying the various character personalities on the show, draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture.
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor, after members of the show left the श्रेणी or था conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie पुरस्कार लिये voicing मेग griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production, though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
The five sets of the board game Monopoly depicted here show the एवोल्यूशन of the game 's artwork and designs in the United States from 1935–2005.
The history of the board game Monopoly can be traced back to the early 20th century.
The earliest known design was by the American, एलिज़ाबेथ Magie, patented in 1904 but existing as early as 1902.
Magie 's असली intent थी to प्रकाशित a फलक खेल to illustrate an आर्थिक principle, namely the georgist अवधारणा of a सिंगल जमीन मान कर.
A series of board games were developed from 1906 through the 1930s that involved the buying and selling of land and the development of that land.
By 1934, a board game had been created much like the version of Monopoly sold by Parker Brothers and its related companies through the rest of the 20th century, and into the 21st.
Several people, mostly in the midwestern संयुक्त राज्य and near the East Coast, contributed to the game 's design and evolution.
By the 1970s, the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it was printed in the game 's instructions for many years, in a 1974 book devoted to Monopoly, and was cited in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007.
भी a मार्गदर्शिका to परिवार खेल प्रकाशित लिये रीडर 's डाइजेस्ट in 2003 तभी दिया क्रेडिट to darrow और एलिज़ाबेथ magie, erroneously stating कि magie 's असली खेल थी निर्मित in the 1800s, और नहीं acknowledging कोई of the खेल 's विकास between magie 's सृष्टि of the खेल, और the eventual प्रकाशन by पार्कर Brothers.
Also in the 1970s, प्राध्यापक Ralph Anspach, who had himself published a board game intended to illustrate the principles of both monopolies and trust busting, fought Parker Brothers and its then parent company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game.
Through the research of Anspach and others, much of the early history of the game was `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted Maxine ब्रैडी, लेखक of the 1974 किताब the एकाधिकार किताब : रणनीति और tactics of the संसार 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल over the वास्तविक इतिहास of the खेल on बैरी farber 's नई यॉर्क नगर बात दिखाएँ in 1975.
Because of the lengthy court process, including appeals, the legal status of Parker Brothers ' trademarks on the खेल थी नहीं settled until 1985.
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of Parker Brothers, as do its विशिष्ट डिज़ाइन elements.
At the conclusion of the court case, the game 's logo and graphic design elements became part of a larger Monopoly brand, licensed by Parker भाइयो ' जनक companies onto a variety of items through the present day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s and 1980s, and several books and journal articles on the subject, Hasbro ( Parker Brothers ' current parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012.
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in materials published or प्रायोजित by them, at least as recently as 2006.
International tournaments, first held in the early 1970s, continue to the present, with the next world championship likely scheduled for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a new generation of spin-off board games and card games appeared on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean.
In 1989, the first of many video game and computer game संस्करण थी published.
Since 1994, many official विसंगतियाँ of the खेल, आधारित on स्थितियाँ अन्य than अटलांटिक City, New Jersey ( the official U.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth setting, excepting Canada ), have been published by Hasbro or its licensees.
In 2008, Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the standard U.S. Edition of the game to match the UK Edition, although the U.S. standard edition maintains the Atlantic City property names.
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr. Monopoly '' character a 3-D computer-generated dekh, जिससे has since been adopted by licensees USAopoly, Winning Moves and Winning Solutions.
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed Die, introduced in 2006 's Monopoly : The Mega Edition by Winning Moves Games, in versions produced सीधे by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship Edition ).
In baseball, a sacrifice fly is a batted ball that satisfies four criteria:
There are fewer than two outs जब the ball is hit.
The ball is hit to the outfield ( fair or foul ), or to infield foul territory.
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder कार्यशील in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly ( alternatively if the batter would have been out if not for an error or if the outfielder drops the ball and another runner is put out ).
A धावक who is already on base scores on the play.
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to cause a teammate to score a run, while sacrificing his own ability to do so.
Minnesota ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Midwestern United States.
Minnesota was carved out of the eastern half of the Minnesota Territory and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858.
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '', the state 's name comes from a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water ''.
Those waters, together with forests, parks, and wilderness areas, offer residents and tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities.
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive and the 21st most populous of the U.S. states.
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the minneapolis–saint पॉल महानगर area ( known as the `` Twin Cities '' ), the center of transportation, business, industry, education, government and home to an internationally known arts community.
The remainder of the state consists of western prairies now given over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast, now cleared, farmed और settled ; और the कम populated North Woods, used for mining, forestry, and recreation.
मिनेसोटा is ज्ञात लिये its relatively mixed social and political orientations, and has a high rate of civic participation and voter turnout.
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest states, and has a highly literate population.
The विशाल बहुमत of residents are of Scandinavian and German descent.
The state is known as a center of scandinavian American culture.
Ethnic विविधता रै increased in recent decades.
Substantial influxes of Asian, African, and Latin American immigrants have joined the descendants of European settlers और the असली देशी अमरीकी inhabitants.
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers ), often a government department, corporation, न्यास or विश्वास, to a, often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity, educational institution, business or an individual.
In order to receive a grant, कुछ form of `` Grant Writing '' often referred to as either a proposal or an application is usually required.
Most grants are made to fund a specific project and आवश्यकता कुछ level of compliance and reporting.
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder, either on the applicant 's own initiative or in response to a Request for Proposal from the funder.
Other grants can be given to individuals, ऐसे as पीड़ितों of natural disasters or individuals who seek to open a small business.
Sometimes ग्रान्ट makers require grant seekers to have some form of tax-exempt status, be a registered nonprofit organization or a local government.
For example, tiered funding for a freeway are very large grants negotiated at government policy level.
However smaller grants may be provided by a government agency ( e.g. नगरपालिका government ).
Project-related funding involving governments, business, communities, and individuals is often arranged by application either in writing or online.
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable being 60Co with a half-life of 5.2714 years, 57Co with a half-life of 271.79 days, 56Co with a half-life of 77.27 days, and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days.
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 18 hours और the majority of these have half-lives that are less than 1 second.
This element also has 11 meta states, all of which have half-lives कम than 15 minutes.
The isotopes of cobalt range in atomic weight from 47Co to 75Co.
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most abundant stable isotope, 59Co, is इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर and the primary mode of decay for those of greater than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay.
The primary decay products before 59Co are iron isotopes and the primary उत्पाद बाद हैं निकल isotopes.
मानक atomic mass : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
जो स्थानांतरित my चीज ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life, प्रकाशित in 1998, is a motivational book by Spencer Johnson written in the style of a parable or business fable.
It describes change in one 's work and life, and four typical reactions to said change by two चूहे and two `` littlepeople '', during their hunt for cheese.
A New York Times business bestseller चूंकि रिलीज, जो स्थानांतरित My Cheese ?
remained on the list for almost five years and spent over 200 weeks on Publishers Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list.
It has sold more than 26 million copies worldwide in 37 languages and remains to be one of the best-selling business books.
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( – September 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War.
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964, and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers, or Premier, from 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the सोवियत संघ, लिये बैकिंग the progress of the early Soviet space program, and for several relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy.
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in 1964, replacing उसे साथ लियोनिद Brezhnev as First Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier.
Khrushchev was born in the Russian village of Kalinovka in 1894, बंद to the present-day border between Russia and Ukraine.
he थी employed as a metalworker in उसके युवावस्था, और दौरान the रूसी सिविल युद्ध थी a राजनैतिक commissar.
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich, he worked his way up the Soviet hierarchy.
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges, and स्वीकृत हज़ारों of arrests.
In 1939, Stalin sent him to govern Ukraine, and he continued the purges there.
दौरान कया थी ज्ञात in the सोवियत संघ as the ग्रेट patriotic युद्ध ( पूर्वी सामने of संसार युद्ध ii ), khrushchev थी again a commissar, सेवारत as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals.
Khrushchev was present at the bloody defense of Stalingrad, a fact he took great pride in throughout उसके life.
After the war, he लौटे to युक्त पहले being recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers.
In the power संघर्ष triggered by Stalin 's death in 1953, Khrushchev, after several years, emerged victorious.
On फ़रवरी 25, 1956, at the 20th पार्टी कॉंग्रेस, he वितरित the `` रहस्य वाक, '' denouncing स्टालिन 's purges और ushering in a कम repressive era in the सोवियत संघ.
His घरेलू नीतियों, aimed at bettering the जीवनदान of ordinary citizens, were often ineffective, especially in the area of agriculture.
Hoping eventually to rely on missiles for national defense, Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces.
Despite the cuts, Khrushchev 's rule saw the tensest years of the Cold War, culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic, particularly by his emerging rivals, who quietly rose in strength and deposed him in October 1964.
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of Soviet power struggles, but was pensioned बंद साथ an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
His lengthy memoirs यहूद smuggled to the West and published in part in 1970.
khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease.
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract.
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the ligament of Treitz, which connects the fourth portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies, and require admission to हॉस्पिटल for urgent diagnosis and management.
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy, upper GI hemorrhage is now usually treated without surgery.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded population figures हैं in ब्लू.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the total number of जीना इंसानो on Earth.
As of today, it is estimated to number अरब by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund, it reached this milestone on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
the संसार जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक मौत in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 million.
The highest दरों of विकास – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to बढ़ाएँ to 80 लाख प्रति साल by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further विकास, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Philips Lumileds Lighting Company is the manufacturer of a wide range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
It is a now a fully owned division of Philips lighting.
Knuckle mnemonic for the क्रमांक of days in each month of the Gregorian Calendar.
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day month.
A mnemonic (, with a silent `` m '' ), or mnemonic device, is कोई सीखना तकनीक कि aids information retention.
Mnemonics aim to translate information into a form that the human brain can retain better than its असली form.
Even the process of applying this conversion might already aid the transfer of information to long-term memory.
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory form, such as short poems, acronyms, or memorable वाक्यांश, but mnemonics can also be for other types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms.
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial, personal, surprising, physical, sexual, humorous, or otherwise 'relatable ' information, rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information.
The word mnemonic is निकला इससे the प्राचीन Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), meaning `` of memory '' and is related to Mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ), the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology.
Both of these words are derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` remembrance, memory ''.
Mnemonics in antiquity were most often considered in the context of what is today known as the Art of memory.
Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two types of memory : the 'natural ' मेमोरी और the 'artificial ' memory.
The former is inborn, and is the one that everyone uses automatically and बगैर thinking.
The artificial memory in contrast has to be trained and developed through the learning and practicing of a variety of mnemonic तकनीकों.
Mnemonic systems are special techniques or strategies consciously used to improve memory, it helps employ सूचना already stored in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task.
President Bush signing the no चाइल्ड Left Behind Act at Hamilton H.S. in Hamilton, Ohio.
The no चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 ( NCLB ) is a United States Act of Congress that is a reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which included Title I, the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students.
NCLB supports standards-based शिक्षा reform based on the premise that setting high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education.
The Act requires states to develop assessments in basic skills.
States must give ये आकलन to all students at select grade levels in order to receive federal school funding.
The Act does not assert a national उपलब्धि मानक ; standards are set by each individual state.
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through annual testing, annual academic progress, report cards, teacher qualifications, and funding changes.
The bill passed in the U.S. Congress with bipartisan support.
Dodge B Series यूटिलिटी circa 1950, driven by Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, often बस referred to as a pickup, is a light motor vehicle with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built, integrated bed, as well as for coupé utility vehicles, often based on a personal car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi लिये such use.
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup, such as ute in Australia and New जीलैंड, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe, where vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse with arched neck, refined head and elegant gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size, build and breed from the modern horse, और यहूद, on average, smaller.
They were also more central to society than their modern counterparts, होने अनिवार्य लिये war, agriculture, and transport.
Consequently, specific types of horse विकसित, अनेक of which have no modern equivalent.
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and equestrianism is vital for कोई analysis of the medieval horse, researchers also need to consider documentary ( both written and pictorial ) and archaeological evidence.
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by breed, but rather by use.
This led them to be described, for example, as `` chargers `` ( war horses ), `` palfreys `` ( सवारी horses ), cart horses or packhorses.
सन्दर्भ is also given to their place of origin, such as `` Spanish horses, '' but whether this referred to one breed or several is unknown.
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval documents or literature is the flexibility of the medieval languages, where several words can be used for one thing ( or, conversely, several objects are referred to by one word ).
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even within one document ), and where one epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its skill and swiftness.
significant technological advances in equestrian equipment, often introduced from other cultures, allowed for significant changes in both warfare and agriculture.
In particular, improved designs for the solid-treed saddle as well as the arrival of the stirrup, नाल और घोड़ा collar were significant advances in medieval society.
Consequently, the assumptions and theories developed by historians are not definitive, and debate still rages on many issues, such as the breeding or size of the horse, and a number of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject.
the म्यूज़िक man is a musical साथ किताब, म्यूज़िक, और गीत by मेरेडिथ willson, आधारित on a स्टोरी by willson और फ्रैंकलिन लेसी.
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill, who poses as a boys ' band organizer and leader and sells band instruments and uniforms to naive townsfolk before skipping town with the cash.
In River City, Iowa, prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him, but when Hill helps her younger brother overcome his fear of social interactions due to his lisp, Marian begins to fall in love with Harold.
Harold, in turn falling for Marian, risks being caught to win her.
In 1957, the show became a hit on Broadway, winning five Tony Awards, including Best Musical, and running for 1,375 performances.
The cast album won the first Grammy Award for `` Best Original Cast Album '' and was number एक on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks.
The show 's success led to revivals and a popular 1962 film adaptation and a 2003 television remake.
It frequently is produced by both पेशेवर and amateur theater companies.
निरीक्षक 's wheel
A surveyor 's wheel, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle wheel, measuring wheel, or perambulator is a device for measuring distance.
Largest non-polar deserts
Sand dunes in the Rub ' al Khali ( `` खाली quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia.
Makhtesh Ramon, negev desert, Israel
A desert is a landscape or region of land that is very dry because of low rainfall amounts ( precipitation ), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside areas.
Deserts can also be described as areas where more जल is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation.
Desert plants must have special adaptations to survive with इस छोटी water.
Deserts generally प्राप्त कम than 25 cm of rain ( precipitation ) each year.
Semideserts or steppes are regions जिससे प्राप्त between and.
In the Köppen जलवायु वर्गीकरण प्रणाली, deserts are classed as BWh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert ).
In the Thornthwaite climate classification system, deserts होता be classified as arid megathermal climates.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the संयुक्त राज्य joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, सहित 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों were invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium और ध्वज on the रास्ता to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
बाद the जर्मनी कूच on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला छोटी जबतक 1917.
On the Eastern सामने, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
in November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In रूस, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
बाद a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां began प्रवेश the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be factors contributing to World War II.
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 सोंग originally written by Robert Hazard and made famous by singer Cyndi Lauper.
It थी the first major single released by Lauper as a solo artist and the lead-off single from her debut album She 's So Unusual.
Lauper’s version gained recognition as a feminist anthem and promoted by an award-winning वीडियो.
It has महरूम covered on either an album or in live concert by over 30 other artists.
The single was Lauper 's breakthrough hit, reaching # 2 on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 and becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984.
it remains एक of lauper 's हस्ताक्षर गीतों और थी a widely लोकप्रिय सोंग दौरान the era of इसके रिलीज, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '', `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 Top Music Videos '' '' and the `` VH1 : 100 Greatest Videos '' lists ranked the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, क्रमशः.
The song received a Grammy Award nomination for Record of the Year and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.
View of defibrillator electrode position and अवस्थिति.
defibrillation is a आम उपचार लिये life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, और pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the देह 's प्राकृतिक pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device used or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some cases no training at all.
The Cato Institute is an American libertarian think tank headquartered in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard, Ed Crane and Charles Koch, अध्यक्ष of the board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries, Inc..
In July 1976, the name was changed to the केटो Institute.
according to the 2011 वैश्विक go to सोचो टैंक अनुक्रमणिका, केटो is the 6th सबसे influential us आधारित सोचो टैंक, रैंकिंग 3rd in आर्थिक नीति और 2nd in सोशल नीति.
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the understanding of पब्लिक policies based on the principles of limited government, free markets, individual liberty, and peace.
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate, advocate, promote, and disseminate लागू नीति प्रस्ताव कि create free, open, and civil societies in the United States and throughout the world. ''
Cato scholars were नाजुक of जार्ज W. बुश 's रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन ( 2001–2009 ) on अनेक मुद्दे, सहित the इराकी युद्ध, सिविल लिबर्टीज, शिक्षा, कृषि, उर्जा नीति, और excessive सरकारी बिता.
On other issues, they समर्थित Bush administration initiatives, most notably health care, Social Security, global warming, tax policy, and immigration.
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election, Cato scholars criticized both major-party उम्मीदवार, John McCain and Barack Obama.
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his inauguration, such as fiscal stimulus, healthcare reform, foreign policy, and the War on Drugs, while supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy.
Dracula is an 1897 Gothic horror novel by Irish लेखक ब्राम Stoker.
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count Dracula, the अनोखा tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to relocate from Transylvania to England, and the battle between Dracula and a small group of men and women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing.
Dracula has been assigned to many literary genres including vampire literature, horror fiction, the गोथिक novel and invasion literature.
The novel touches on themes such as the role of women in Victorian culture, sexual conventions, immigration, colonialism, and post-colonialism.
Although Stoker did not invent the vampire, he पारिभाषित इसके modern form, and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical, film and television interpretations.
Quidditch is a competitive sport in the wizarding world of the Harry Potter universe, and is from the series of children 's novels and movies.
It is an extremely rough but very popular semi-contact खेल, निभाई by wizards and witches.
Matches are played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks, using four balls and six elevated ring-shaped goals, three on each side of the quidditch pitch ( field ).
In the Harry Potter universe, Quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the position that association football holds as a globally लोकप्रिय sport.
The sport is monumental throughout the wizarding संसार.
Harry plays an important position for his house team at Hogwarts : he is the seeker and becomes the captain in his sixth year there.
Regional and international प्रतियोगिताओं are mentioned throughout the series.
In Goblet of Fire, Quidditch at Hogwarts is cancelled for the tri-wizard Tournament, but Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup.
In addition, Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard Tournament ), to capture a flying key in Philosopher 's Stone, and on two key occasions in Deathly Hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw 's Diadem, and during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air.
हैरी Potter has owned two broomsticks, the Nimbus 2000 and the Firebolt, both of which are destroyed by the series ' end.
The game has been adopted in the real संसार in the रूप of मगलू Quidditch.
the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस is the bicameral विधानमंडल of the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य consisting of दो घरों : the निम्नतर हाउस ज्ञात as the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि and the upper house known as the Senate.
Congress meets in the Capitol in Washington, D.C.
Both representatives and senators are chosen through direct election.
Congress has a total of 535 voting members : 435 members in the House of Representatives and 100 members in the Senate.
Members of the House of Representatives serve two-year terms representing the people of a district.
Congressional districts are apportioned to states by population using the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी results, each state in the union having at least one representative in the House of Representatives.
Regardless of population, each of the 50 राज्य रै दो सीनेटरों ; the 100 senators each serve a six-year term.
The terms are staggered so every two years approximately one-third of the Senate is up for election.
Each लड़खड़ाते समूह of one-third of the सीनेटरों हैं पुकारा 'classes '.
No state of the United States has two senators from the same class.
सबसे incumbents seek re-election, and their historical likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent.
In August 2012, a Gallup poll reported that Congress’s approval rating amongst अमेरिकी was at 10 %, matching a 38-year low reached in November 2011.
`` A Little अधिक देश than कि '' is the शीर्षक of a सोंग लिखा by जॉय + रोरी 's रोरी ली feek, व्यान varble, और डॉन poythress, और अंकित by अमरीकी देश कलाकार ईस्टन कोर्बिन.
It was released in August 2009 as Corbin 's debut single and is included on his self-titled debut album.
In April 2010, the song reached Number One on the country music charts, making Corbin the first male solo कलाकार in सात years to send a debut single to Number One.
It has been certified सुनहरा by the RIAA.
The BlackBerry is a line of wireless हैंडहेल्ड devices and services designed and marketed by Research In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry.
The पहला ब्लैकबेरी device, an email pager, was released in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices, the Z10 and Q10, were announced on January 30, 2013.
The user इंटरफ़ेस varies by मॉडल ; सबसे विशेषता a शारीरिक क्वर्टी कुंजीपटल, जबकि नए पीढियां have relied on a multi-touch स्क्रीन और आभासी कुंजीपटल.
A BlackBerry can shoot video, take photos, play music, and perform online functions such as web-browsing and emailing.
They can also भेजें और प्राप्त धक्का ईमेल और तत्काल संदेश जबकि maintaining a ऊँची स्तर of सुरक्षा through on-device संदेश एन्क्रिप्शन, और हैं designed to फलन as निजी डिजिटल assistants.
BlackBerry devices support a large variety of instant messaging features, with the most लोकप्रिय होने the मालिकाना ब्लैकबेरी Messenger service.
The ब्लैकबेरी playbook is a tablet computer offered by the company.
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in जून क्वार्टर of 2010 and the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped in September quarter of 2012.
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011, making its manufacturer the sixth most popular device maker ( 25 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री are smartphones ).
the उपभोक्ता BlackBerry Internet Service is available in 91 countries worldwide on over 500 mobile service operators using various mobile technologies.
As of September 2012, there were eighty million subscribers worldwide to BlackBerry.
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones worldwide, with up to about 45 प्रति cent in the region having a RIM device.
BlackBerry, iPhone, एंड्रॉइड, and Windows Phone are considered the four major smartphone brands.
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United States, which alludes to its excessive use by its owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine.
Use of the term CrackBerry became so widespread that in नवम्बर 2006 Webster 's New World College Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year. ''
An example of a demand curve shifting.
The shift from D1 To D2 means an increase in demand with consequences for the other variables
In अर्थशास्त्र, the माँग वक्र is the आलेख depicting the संबंध between the दाम of a निश्चित कमोडिटी और the राशि of it कि उपभोक्ता हैं willing और समर्थ to खरीदें at कि दिए दाम.
It is a graphic प्रतिनिधित्व of a demand schedule.
The demand curve for all consumers together follows from the demand curve of every individual consumer : the individual demands at प्रत्येक दाम are added together.
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets, and are often combined with supply curves to estimate the equilibrium price ( the price at which sellers together are willing to sell the same amount as buyers together are willing to buy, also known as market clearing price ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the amount of that good or service that will be produced and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market.
In a monopolistic market, the demand curve facing the monopolist is simply the market demand curve.
historia
by nikolaos Gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia, meaning `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term that relates to past events as well as the discovery, collection, organization, and presentation of information about these events.
The term includes cosmic, geologic, and organic history, but is often generically implied to mean human history.
Scholars जो write about history are called historians.
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative to examine and analyse a sequence of past events, and objectively determine the patterns of cause and effect that determine them.
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its usefulness by discussing the study of the discipline as an end in itself and as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present.
Stories common to a particular culture, but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding King Arthur ) are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends, because they do not support the `` disinterested छानबीन '' जरूरी of the अनुशासन of इतिहास.
Events occurring prior to written रिकार्ड are considered prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th century B.C. Greek historian is considered within the Western tradition to be the `` father of history '', and, along with उसके समकालीन thucydides, helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history.
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus and the military-focused Thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing.
In the Eastern tradition, a state chronicle the Spring and Autumn Annals was known to be compiled from as जल्दी as 722 BCE although only 2nd century BCE texts survived.
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature of history which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today.
The modern study of history is wide-ranging, and includes the study of specific regions and the study of certain topical or thematical elements of historical investigation.
Often history is taught as part of primary and secondary education, and the academic study of history is a major discipline in University studies.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans.
Detractors accused him of preaching racism, black supremacy, and violence.
He has been called one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by श्वेत supremacists, it was rumored—when he was young, and at least one of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, his mother was placed in a mental hospital, and he was placed in a series of foster homes.
in 1946, at age 20, he went to prison for breaking and entering.
In prison, Malcolm x became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group, but disillusionment साथ स्वदेश of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, he returned to the United States, where he founded Muslim Mosque, inc. और the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam, he was assassinated by three members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it, `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson, Jr. ( born March 28, 1946 ) is an American banker who served as the 74th United States सचिव of the Treasury.
He had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs, and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute, which he founded in 2011 to प्रचार sustainable economic growth and a cleaner environment around the world, with an initial focus on the United States and China.
A virtual machine ( VM ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware, which is प्रस्तुत to the application layer of the system.
Virtual machines may be based on विशेषताएँ of a hypothetical computer or emulate the computer architecture and functions of a real world computer.
मकड़ियों ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all other groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica, and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been confusion within the scientific community as to कैसा all these families should be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, spiders do not have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as all their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by हाइड्रोलिक pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
मकड़ी webs vary widely in size, shape and the amount of sticky thread used.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in carboniferous रॉक्स इससे, and are very similar to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern spiders, Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all other known species are predators, mostly preying on insects and on other spiders, although a few large species also take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it with sticky bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have acute vision, और hunters of the genus portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize their food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females.
Males of most species survive a few matings, सीमित mainly by their short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of eggs.
Females of many species care for their young, for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of species are social, building communal webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social बर्ताव ranges from precarious toleration, as in the widow spiders, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at सबसे दो सालो, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, scientists are now researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic सामग्री, और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional character and one of the two female leads in the Fox sitcom That '70s Show, appearing in all eight seasons.
Portrayed by Laura Prepon, Donna is the प्रेम interest to Eric Forman.
us county household median income 2009.
Median US household income, 2001-2011
household income is a measure commonly used by the United States government and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the income of प्रत्येक resident over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment बीमे, विकलांगता payments, child support payments received, regular rental receipts, as well as any personal business, investment, or other kinds of income received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household आय था महरूम increasing लगभग प्रत्येक साल इससे 1945 to 1999, it रै चूंकि महरूम चपटा और भी decreased recently.
U.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, सहित 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a similar economic context, the use of household income remains among the most widely स्वीकृत उपायों of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations भीतर or among the household income categories, and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
A registered agent, also known as a resident agent or statutory agent, in United States business law, is a business or individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business entity is a पार्टी in a विधिक कार्रवाई ऐसे as a lawsuit or summons.
the पंजीकृत एजेंट 's पता may भी be जहाँ the राज्य होगा भेजें the कागजी लिये the वार्षिक नवीकरण of the कारोबार एंटिटी 's चार्टर.
The registered agent for a business entity may be an individual member of the कम्पनी, or ( more often ) a third party, such as the organization 's lawyer or a service company.
Failure to properly maintain a registered agent can affect a company negatively.
Office for आपात Management.
Office of War Information war poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of सुख '' is a well-known phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which all human beings are endowed by their creator for their protection of which they institute governments.
Fencing, is typically divided into Olympic fencing, Classical fencing and ऐतिहासिक तलवारबाजी,.
The sport of fencing ( commonly called olympic fencing or competitive fencing ) is divided into three weapon categories : foil, sabre and épée.
Classical fencing uses the वही तीन हथियार, but approaches fencing as a martial art.
Competitive Fencing is one of five sports which has been featured at every one of the modern Olympic Games, the other four being Athletics, Cycling, तैराकी, और Gymnastics.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ), भी called simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a large muscle group that includes the four prevailing muscles on the front of the thigh.
It is the great extensor muscle of the knee, forming a large fleshy mass which covers the front and sides of the femur.
The proper लैटिन बहुवचन form of the adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites.
In modern English usage, quadriceps is used in both singular and plural.
The singular form quadricep, produced by hypercorrection, is frequently used.
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April 1912 after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton, UK to New York City, US.
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502 people in one of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern history.
The RMS Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the time of her maiden voyage.
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the White Star Line, and she was built by the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews, who perished with the ship, as her naval architect.
On her maiden voyage, she carried 2,224 यात्री and crew.
Under the command of Edward Smith, her passengers included some of the wealthiest people in the world, as well as hundreds of emigrants from Great Britain and Ireland, Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America.
The ship was designed to be the last word in comfort and luxury, with an on-board gymnasium, swimming pool, libraries, high-class restaurants and opulent cabins.
She also had a powerful wireless telegraph provided for the convenience of passengers as well as for operational use.
Though she had advanced safety features such as watertight compartments and remotely activated watertight doors, she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard.
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly more than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage, और one-third उसके कुल यात्री and crew capacity.
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912, Titanic called at Cherbourg in France and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards towards New York.
On 14 April 1912, four days into the crossing and about 375 miles ( 600 km ) south of Newfoundland, she hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm ship 's time.
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates to buckle inwards along her starboard side and opened five of her sixteen watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water.
Meanwhile, passengers and some crew members were evacuated in lifeboats, many of which were launched only partly loaded.
A disproportionate number of men were left सवार because of a `` women and children first `` protocol followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats.
By 2:20 AM, she broke अलावा and foundered, with well over one thousand people still aboard.
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered, the Cunard liner RMS Carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking, where she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors.
the विपत्ति थी greeted साथ विश्वव्यापी शॉक और आक्रोश at the विशाल घाटा of जीवन और the नियामक और operational असफलताओं कि था led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain and the United States led to major सुधार in maritime safety.
One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea ( SOLAS ), which still governs मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा आज.
Additionally, several new wireless regulations यहूद passed around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to सीख इससे the अनेक missteps in बेतार संचार -- -which could have saved अनेक अधिक यात्री.
Many of the survivors खोया सब of उनके money and possessions and were left destitute ; many families, particularly those of crew members from Southampton, lost their primary bread-winners.
They were helped by an outpouring of public sympathy and charitable donations.
Some of the male survivors were अभियुक्त of cowardice for leaving the ship while people were still on board ; the White Star Line 's chairman, J. Bruce Ismay, faced social ostracism for the rest of his life.
The wreck of the Titanic remains on the seabed, विभाजित in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of.
Since its discovery in 1985, thousands of artefacts have been recovered and put on display at museums around the world.
Titanic has become one of the most प्रसिद्ध ships in history, her memory kept alive by numerous books, folk songs, films, exhibits, and memorials.
the इंसान लेग is the संपूर्ण निम्नतर extremity or limb of the इंसान देह, सहित the पैर, जांघ और भी the हिप or gluteal प्रदेश ; however, the precise परिभाषा in इंसान anatomy refers तभी to the खण्ड of the निम्नतर limb extending इससे the घुटना to the ankle.
Legs are used for standing, walking, jumping, running, kicking, and similar activities, and constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass.
This article is about the demographic features of the जनसांख्यिकी of Turkey, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
As of 2010, the population of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 million with a growth rate of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ).
The population is अपेक्षाकृत young with 26.6 % falling in the 0-14 age bracket.
According to the OECD/World Bank population statistics in Turkey the population growth from 1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29 %.
1998 BMW 750il
Buick roadmaster
A full-size car is a विपणन term used in North America for an automobile larger than a mid-size car.
In the United States, the EPA uses the term `` large car '' to denote full-size cars.
Joel Grey ( born अप्रैल 11, 1932 ) is an अमरीकी स्टेज and screen actor, singer, and dancer, known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in both the stage and film adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret.
He रै जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार, टोनी पुरस्कार और सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार.
he भी originated the भूमिका of जार्ज M. cohan in the musical जार्ज m !
in 1973, the Wizard in the musical Wicked.
Grey also starred in the Broadway revivals of anything Goes as Moonface Martin, and Chicago as Amos Hart.
James Madison, Jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( O.S. March 5 ) – June 28, 1836 ) was an American statesman and political theorist, the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution” for being instrumental in the drafting of the United States Constitution and as the key champion and author of the United States Bill of Rights.
He served as a politician much of उसके adult life.
After the संविधान था महरूम drafted, मैडिसन became एक of the नेताओ in the गति to ratify it.
His collaboration with Alexander Hamilton and John Jay produced the federalist papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated only in New York at the time, they would later be considered among the most important polemics in support of the संविधान.
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying convention, and was instrumental to the successful ratification effort in Virginia.
Like most of उसके contemporaries, मैडिसन बदला उसके राजनैतिक दृश्य दौरान उसके जीवन.
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution, he favored a strong national government, though later he grew to favor stronger state governments, before settling between the two extremes late in his life.
In 1789, मैडिसन became a नेता in the new House of Representatives, drafting many basic laws.
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the Constitution, and thus is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights ``.
Madison worked closely with President George Washington to organize the new federal government.
Breaking with Hamilton and what became the Federalist Party in 1791, Madison and Thomas Jefferson organized what they पुकारा the रिपब्लिकन Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ), Madison supervised the Louisiana Purchase, which doubled the nation’s size.
बाद उसके election to the presidency, he presided over renewed prosperity for several years.
As president ( 1809–17 ), after the failure of diplomatic विरोध और a trade embargo against Great Britain, he led the nation into the War of 1812.
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition, he wanted to end the influence of the British among their Indian allies, whose resistance blocked United States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes.
Madison found the war to be an administrative nightmare, as the United States had neither a strong army nor financial system ; as a result, he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong military, as well as the national bank, which he had long opposed.
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave समाज, he थी a slaveholder who inherited his plantation known as Montpelier, and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops.
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that allowed three-fifths of the enumerated population of slaves to be counted for representation.
`` Roman 's Revenge '' is a song performed by American rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio एल्बम गुलाबी Friday.
It was written by Minaj and rapper Eminem, who is also featured in the song, and was produced by Swizz Beatz.
It was released exclusively on October 30, 2010 through the US iTunes Store, as a promotional release preceding the album 's release.
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj, where many people felt the song was directed at Lil ' Kim and regarded around her feelings towards Minaj 's rise to fame.
The song references Minaj 's alter-ego, Roman Zolanski, and Eminem 's alter-ego, पतला Shady.
The song garnered बहुत धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ from critics, most of which praised the song as a stand-out track on the album.
An official remix featuring Minaj 's mentor, Lil Wayne, was released to the US iTunes Store on January 19, 2011.
The instrumental was used in the song 'Firing Squad ' by नाल g.a.n.g.
Hydraulic fluid being poured.
हाइड्रोलिक fluids, भी पुकारा हाइड्रोलिक liquids, हैं the मीडियम by जिससे शक्ति is transferred in हाइड्रोलिक मशीनरी.
आम हाइड्रोलिक fluids are based on mineral oil or water.
Examples of equipment that might use हाइड्रोलिक fluids include excavators and backhoes, hydraulic brakes, power steering systems, transmissions, garbage trucks, aircraft flight control systems, lifts, and industrial machinery.
Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above will work most efficiently if the hydraulic fluid used has no compressibility
महिंद्रा Tractor
Mahindra Tractors, the farm equipment division of Mahindra & महिंद्रा, builds and sources tractors that are sold worldwide across six continents.
Mahindra is also among the शीर्ष three tractor manufacturers in the world.
Mahindra has a huge consumer base in India, China and America and a growing base in Australia.
The company builds more tractors in India than any अन्य निर्माता, and has the capacity to build 150,000 tractors a year.
in 1963, m & m formed a संयुक्त venture साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the महिंद्रा nameplate लिये the भारतीय market.
Armed with engineering, tooling and manufacturing know-how gained from this relationship, M & M developed इसके पहला ट्रैक्टर, the B-275.
Mahindra Tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 units annually is one of the largest tractor companies in the world, and is number one in sales in India - the largest ट्रैक्टर मार्केट in the world.
To expand into the growing tractor market in China, Mahindra acquired majority stake in Jiangling.
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the US, Mahindra USA announced its new sponsorship in the NASCAR Nationwide Series with R3 Motorsports, जिससे is participating with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet.
The car will be driven by Robert रिचर्डसन, jr. महिंद्रा USA, Inc. announced a 17-race primary and 18-race associate sponsorship for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series.
With this sponsorship, Mahindra was the first Indian company to sponsor a car in NASCAR.
In 2008, Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald Motorsports team which ran the # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide Series.
The POWER6 is a microprocessor विकसित by ibm that implemented the Power ISA v.2.03.
When it became available in systems in 2007, it succeeded the POWER5+ as IBM 's flagship Power माइक्रोप्रोसेसर.
It is part of the eCLipz project, said to have a लक्ष्य of converging IBM 's server hardware where practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries, pSeries, and zSeries ).
The American middle class is a social class in the United States.
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use, contemporary social scientists have put forward several, more or less congruent, theories on the American middle class.
Depending on class model used, the middle class may constitute anywhere from 25 % to 66 % of households.
One of the first major studies of the मध्य class in America was White Collar : The American Middle Classes, published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert of Hamilton College commonly divide the मध्य क्लास into two sub-groups.
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or professional middle class consisting of highly educated, salaried professionals and managers.
Constituting roughly one third of households is the lower middle class consisting mostly of semi-professionals, skilled कारीगरों और lower-level प्रबन्धन.
Middle-class persons commonly have a comfortable standard of living, significant economic security, considerable work स्वायत्तता और rely on उनके विशेषज्ञता to sustain themselves.
Members of the middle class belong to diverse groups which overlap with each other.
Overall, middle-class persons, विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals, are characterized by conceptualizing, creating and consulting.
Thus, कॉलेज शिक्षा is एक of the main indicators of middle-class status.
Largely attributed to the प्रकृति of middle-class occupations, middle class values tend to emphasize independence, adherence to intrinsic standards, valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity.
Politically more active than other demographics, college educated middle class professionals हैं विभाजित between the दो प्रमुख parties.
Income varies considerably from near the national median to well in excess of $ 100,000.
Household income figures, however, do not always reflect class status and standard of living, as they are largely influenced by the number of income earners and fail to recognize household size.
It is therefore possible for a large, dual-earner, lower middle class household to out-earn a small, one-earner, upper मध्य क्लास household.
The middle classes are very influential, as they encompass the majority of voters, writers, teachers, journalists, and editors.
Most societal trends in the US originate भीतर the मध्य classes.
The following is a list of Saturday Night Live cast members, past and present.
The cast members of Saturday Night Live were originally referred to as the `` Not Ready For Prime Time Players ''.
The original cast ( l to r ) : laraine न्युमैन, John Belushi, Jane Curtin, Gilda Radner, Dan Aykroyd, Garrett Morris, and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, remembered as one of the worst natural disasters in संयुक्त States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an इवेंट of substantial extent causing significant physical damage or destruction, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A disaster can be ostensively defined as any tragic event stemming from events such as earthquakes, floods, catastrophic accidents, fires, or explosions.
It is a घटना that can cause damage to life and property and destroy the economic, social and cultural life of people.
In समकालीन academia, disasters are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk.
These risks are the product of a संयोजन of both hazard/s and vulnerability.
Hazards that strike in areas साथ कम vulnerability will never become disasters, as is the case in uninhabited regions.
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by disasters occur in developing countries, and losses due to natural disasters are 20 times greater ( as a percentage of GDP ) in developing countries than in industrialized countries.
in कम्प्यूटिंग, booting ( भी ज्ञात as booting up ) is the आरंभिक नियत of परिचालन कि a कंप्यूटर प्रणाली performs जब विद्युत शक्ति to the CPU is switched on.
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first time or is re-energized after being turned off, and ends when the computer is ready to perform its normal operations.
On modern general purpose computers, this can take tens of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating and initializing peripheral devices, and then finding, loading and starting an operating system.
Many computer systems also allow these operations to be initiated by a software command without cycling power, in what is known as a soft reboot, though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot.
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the main operating प्रणाली or runtime environment for the computer after completion of the self-tests.
The computer term बूट is short for bootstrap or bootstrap load and derives from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
The usage calls attention to the requirement that, if सबसे तन्त्र is loaded onto a computer by other software already running on the computer, some mechanism must exist to load initial software onto the computer.
Early computers used a variety of ad-hoc विधि to get a small program into memory to solve this problem.
The invention of integrated circuit read-only memory ( ROM ) of various types solved this paradox by allowing computers to be shipped साथ a start up program that could not be erased.
Growth in the capacity of ROM has अनुमत ever more elaborate start up procedures to be implemented.
On general purpose computers, the boot प्रक्रम begins साथ the execution of an initial program stored in boot ROMs or read in another fashion.
In some older computers, the initial program might have been the application to run, if no operating system was used, or the operating system.
In other computers, the initial program is a boot loader that may then load into random-access memory ( RAM ), from nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or, in some older computers, from a medium such as punched cards, punched tape, or magnetic tape in older computers, the शब्दकोष code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it.
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities, it may, instead, load a larger and more capable द्वितीयक बूट लोडर, जिससे होता then load the operating system or runtime environment.
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot sequence to begin functioning and when turned on may simply run operational programs that are stored in ROM.
Firebird is an खोलें source SQL relational database management system that runs on Linux, Windows, and a variety of Unix.
The database forked from Borland 's open source edition of InterBase in 2000, but since Firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten.
आउटसोर्सिंग is the contracting आउट of an आतंरिक कारोबार प्रक्रम to a third-party संगठन.
The practice of contracting a business process out to a third party rather than staffing it internally is common in the modern economy.
The term `` आउटसोर्सिंग '' became popular in the United States near the turn of the 21st century.
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring employees and assets from one firm to another, but not सदा.
The definition of outsourcing includes both foreign and domestic contracting, and sometimes includes offshoring, which means relocating a business function to another country.
Financial savings from lower international labor rates is a big motivation लिये outsourcing/offshoring.
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing, which entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house, and is sometimes संपन्नता via vertical integration.
However, a कारोबार can provide a अनुबंध सेवा to another कारोबार बगैर necessarily insourcing कि कारोबार प्रक्रम.
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ), a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
संक्रमण साथ hiv occurs by the ट्रांसफ़र of रक्त, वीर्य, vaginal द्रव, pre-ejaculate, or स्तन मिल्क.
Within these bodily fluids, HIV is उपस्थित as दोनो फ़्री वायरस particles and virus within infected immune cells.
HIV infects vital cells in the human immune system such as helper T cells ( specifically CD4 + T cells ), macrophages, and dendritic cells.
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct viral killing of infected cells, and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells.
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a critical level, cell-mediated immunity is lost, and the body becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections.
The firepole in a fire station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a लकड़ी ध्रुव or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in fire stations, allowing firefighters responding to an alarm to quickly descend to the ground floor faster than by using a standard staircase.
The device was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon, in Chicago, Illinois, although it is often incorrectly credited to the Boston Fire Department.
Mary Poppins is the title character of a series of children 's किताबे written by P. L. Travers.
Throughout the Mary Poppins series, which lasted from 1934 to 1988, Mary Shepard was the illustrator and acted as a second author.
The books centre on a magical English nanny, Mary poppins.
She is blown by the East wind to Number Seventeen Cherry Tree Lane, London, and into the Banks ' household to परवाह लिये उनके children.
Encounters with chimney sweeps, shopkeepers and विभिन्न adventures follow until Mary Poppins abruptly leaves, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
The adventures take place over a total of eight books.
however, तभी the first three books feature Mary Poppins arriving and leaving.
The later five books recount previously unrecorded adventures from her original three visits.
As P. L. Travers explains in her introduction to Mary Poppins in the Park, `` She can not forever arrive and depart. ''
The books were adapted in 1964 into a musical Disney film starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke.
In 2004, Disney Theatrical produced a stage musical adaptation in the West End theatre.
The स्टेज musical was transferred to Broadway in 2006 where it ran until its closing on March 3, 2013.
It has been highly कामयाब, as थी the 1964 film.
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of आयु teen romantic drama film developed alongside Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the same name.
The film was निर्देशित by Julie Anne Robinson in her feature film directorial debut and co-written by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie.
The Last Song stars Miley Cyrus, लियाम hemsworth, और Greg Kinnear and follows a troubled teenager as she reconnects with her estranged father and falls in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town.
The film is distributed by Touchstone Pictures.
Sparks was approached to write both the film 's screenplay and the novel.
स्पार्क्स समाप्त the पटकथा in January 2009, prior to the completion of the novel, making The Last Song his first script to be optioned for film.
The setting, originally in North Carolina like the novel, moved to Georgia after the states had campaigned for months to host production.
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island, Georgia and nearby Savannah, The Last Song became the first movie to be both shot and set in Tybee Island.
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18, 2009 with much of it occurring on the island 's beach and pier.
The Last Song was originally scheduled for wide release on January 8, 2010, but was postponed to March 31, 2010.
लिखा Simlish
Simlish is a fictional language featured in EA Games ' Sim series of games.
It debuted in SimCopter, and has been especially prominent in The Sims, The Sims 2 and The Sims 3.
The Sims development team created the unique Simlish language by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian, French, Latin, फ़िनिश, अंग्रेज़ी, fijian, सेबुआनो, और Tagalog.
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4, SimCity समाजों और simcity 2013, but far less frequently.
Civilized Creatures in Spore can also be taught to speak Simlish.
it is भी प्रदर्शित to an extent in firaxis खेल ' सिड मायर 's simgolf.
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue in the game, but thought that using a real language would make it sound too repetitive and would also be too costly to hire translators for world languages.
Initially, inspired by the Native American code talkers of World War II, Sims creator Will Wright and language expert Marc Gimbel suggested experimenting with the Navajo language to create Simlish.
However, they ultimately decided that Simlish worked best as a `` language '' made up of gibberish words that could n't be translated, so that its meaning would be left open to the imagination of the player.
राइट बाद commented कि using `` बकवास भाषा '' turned आउट to be the सही विकास चुनाव, as लोगों यहूद सक्षम of imagining it अधिक realistically than a कंप्यूटर could सिमुलेट a रियल एक.
The actual ध्वनि of Simlish was created improvisationally by voice actors Stephen Kearin and Gerri Lawlor.
An example of Ultrasonic परीक्षण ( UT ) on blade roots of a V2500 IAE aircraft engine.
Step 1 : The UT probe is placed on the root of the blades to be inspected with the help of a special borescope tool ( video probe ).
Step 2 : यंत्र settings are input.
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over the blade root.
In this case, an indication ( peak in the data ) through the red line ( or gate ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the left of that range indicates a crack.
Principle of अल्ट्रासोनिक testing.
बाएँ : a जांच भेजना a ध्वनि वेव into a परीक्षण सामग्री.
There are two indications, one from the initial pulse of the probe, and the दूसरी due to the back wall echo.
RIGHT : A defect creates a third indication and simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is determined by the ratio D/E
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ), very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with center frequencies ranging from 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials.
A common example is ultrasonic thickness measurement, which tests the thickness of the test ऑब्जेक्ट, for example, to monitor pipework corrosion.
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on स्टील और other metals and alloys, though it can also be used on concrete, wood and composites, albeit with less resolution.
It is a रूप of non-destructive testing used in many industries including aerospace, automotive and other transportation sectors.
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), also called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ), is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation.
vascular ischemia of the toes with characteristic cyanosis.
In medicine, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; from Greek language ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- रूट denoting a प्रतिबंध or thinning or to मेक or grow thin/lean, haema blood ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues, causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ).
Ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood vessels, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue.
It also means local anemia in a given part of a body sometimes resulting from congestion ( such as vasoconstriction, thrombosis or embolism ).
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome, also known as trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21.
Down syndrome is the most common chromosome abnormality in humans.
It is typically associated with a delay in cognitive ability ( mental retardation, or mr ) और शारीरिक विकास, and a particular set of facial characteristics.
The average IQ of young adults with Down syndrome is around 50, whereas young adults without the condition typically have an IQ of 100.
( MR has historically महरूम defined as an IQ below 70. )
A large proportion of individuals with Down सिंड्रोम have a severe degree of intellectual disability.
Down syndrome is named after John langdon bas, the British physician who described the syndrome in 1866.
The condition was clinically described earlier by Jean Etienne Dominique Esquirol in 1838 and Edouard Seguin in 1844.
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959.
Down syndrome can be पहचाना in a baby at birth or before birth by prenatal screening.
Pregnancies with this निदान are often terminated.
The CDC estimates that about one of every 691 babies born in the United States each year is born with Down syndrome.
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in regular school classes while others require specialised educational facilities.
Some children graduate from high school, and, in the US, there are increasing opportunities for participating in post-secondary education.
Education and proper care has महरूम दिखाया to improve विशेषता of life significantly.
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to work at paid employment in the community, while others require a more sheltered work environment.
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes, or night sweats if they happen at night ) are a symptom which may have several other causes, but which is often caused by the changing hormone levels that are characteristic of menopause.
The Servicemen 's readjustment अधिनियम of 1944 ( p.l. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284m ), known informally as the G.I. Bill, was a law that provided a range of benefits for returning World War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
Benefits included low-cost mortgages, low-interest loans to start a business or farm, cash payments of tuition and living expenses to attend college, high school or vocational education, as well as one year of unemployment compensation.
It was उपलब्धियाँ to प्रत्येक दिग्गज who had been on active duty during the war years for at least ninety days and had not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required.
By the end of the program in 1956, roughly 2.2 million veterans had used the G.I. Bill education benefits in order to attend colleges or universities, and an additional 6.6 million used these benefits for some kind of training program.
Since the original 1944 law, the term has come to include अन्य दिग्गज लाभ कार्यक्रम created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service.
Historians and economists consider the G.I. Bill a major political success—especially in contrast to the उपचार of संसार युद्ध i veterans—and a प्रमुख योगदान to अमेरिका 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth.
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a result of the June 17, 1972 break-in at the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी मुख्यालय at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C., and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement.
The scandal eventually led to the resignation of Richard Nixon, the President of the United States, on August 9, 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President.
The कांड also resulted in the indictment, trial, conviction, and incarceration of forty-three persons, dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials.
The affair began with the arrest of five men for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) मुख्यालय at the Watergate complex on June 17, 1972.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the burglars to a slush fund used by the Committee for the re-election of the President, the official organization of Nixon 's campaign.
In July 1973, as evidence mounted against the president 's staff, including testimony provided by former staff members in an investigation conducted by the Senate Watergate Committee, it was revealed that President Nixon had a tape-recording system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations.
Recordings from these tapes implicated the president, revealing he had attempted to cover up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on that had taken place during his administration, both before and after the break-in.
After a protracted series of bitter court battles, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the president had to hand over the tapes to government investigators ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of Representatives and a strong possibility of a conviction in the सीनेट, निक्सन resigned the प्रेसिडेंसी on अगस्त 9, 1974.
His successor, Gerald घाट, then issued a pardon to him.
एलिज़ाबेथ imogene webber ( formerly Lansing and Spencer ) is a fictional character on the ABC Daytime soap opera General Hospital.
Elizabeth is the पोती of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John Beradino ), one of the originating core characters of the series.
Rebecca Herbst originated the character on August 1, 1997 and has been the only contract actress to play the role.
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings, Lucky Spencer and Elizabeth Webber और जेसन Morgan and Elizabeth Webber.
The United States presidency of Ronald Reagan, also known as the reagan administration, was a Republican administration headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20, 1981, to January 20, 1989.
Domestically, the administration favored reducing government programs and introduced the largest across-the-board tax cuts in अमरीकी history.
The economic policies enacted in 1981, known as `` Reaganomics ``, यहूद an example of supply-side economics.
Reagan aimed to encourage entrepreneurship and limit the growth of social spending, as well as the reduction of regulation and inflation.
Economic growth saw a strong recovery in the 1980s, helping Reagan to win a भूस्खलन re-election.
The national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding foreign नीति, the administration was steadfastly anti-communist, calling the Soviet Union an `` evil empire `` and ending 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by his predecessor, including an invasion of Grenada, the first major overseas action by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam War.
The `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to paramilitary forces seeking to overthrow कम्युनिस्ट सरकारें, particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan.
Reagan also promoted new technologies such as missile defense systems in order to confront the Soviets and their allies.
In diplomacy, Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime Minister मार्गरेट Thatcher, and he met with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four times, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '', or the Age of Reagan in मान्यता of the political realignment both within and beyond the U.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets.
The Reagan प्रशासन worked toward the collapse of Soviet Communism, and it did collapse just as he left office.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar world with the U.S. as the संसार 's sole superpower.
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term, Reagan himself left office with a 63 percent approval rating, one of the higher approval ratings of departing presidents.
After years of unstinting praise from the right, and unrelenting criticism from the left, historian David Henry finds that by 2009 a consensus had emerged among scholars that Reagan revived conservatism and turned the nation to the right by demonstrating a `` pragmatic कोसा '' कि प्रचारित ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system.
Furthermore, says Henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the presidency and अमरीकी self-confidence, and contributed critically to ending the Cold War.
Crude death रेट by country ( 2006 ).
Mortality rate is a measure of the number of deaths ( in general, or due to a specific cause ) in a population.
Scaled to the size of कि जनसांख्यिकी, per unit of time.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in units of deaths per 1000 individuals per year ; thus, a mortality rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population, or 0.95 % out of the total.
it is पृथक इससे morbidity रेट, जिससे refers to the क्रमांक of individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य दौरान a दिए समय काल ( the व्यापकता रेट ) or the क्रमांक of newly appearing मामले of the बीमारी प्रति ईकाई of समय ( incidence rate ).
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the number of deaths among a set of diagnosed hospital cases for a disease or injury, rather than for the general population of a country or ethnic group.
इस बीमारी mortality statistic is more precisely referred to as `` case fatality rate `` ( CFR ).
One distinguishes:
The crude death rate, the total number of deaths per year per 1000 people.
the crude death rate for the whole world is about 8.37 per 1000 per year according to the current CIA World Factbook.
The perinatal mortality rate, the sum of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births.
The मातृ मृत्यु ratio, the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in same time period.
The मातृ मृत्यु रेट, the क्रमांक of maternal deaths per 1,000 women of reproductive age in the population ( generally defined as 15–44 years of age ).
The infant mortality rate, the number of deaths of children less than 1 year old per 1000 live births.
The child मृत्यु rate, the number of deaths of children less than 5 years old per 1000 live births.
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional comparison to the numbers of deaths that would have been expected if the population had been of a मानक संयोजन in terms of age, gender, etc.
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) - इस refers to the total number of deaths per year per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g. age 62 last birthday ).
In regard to the or failure of चिकित्सा उपचार or procedures, one would also distinguish:
The early mortality rate, the total number of deaths in the early stages of an ongoing treatment, or in the period immediately following an treatment.
The late mortality rate, the total number of deaths in the लेट चरण of an ongoing treatment, or a significant length of time after an acute treatment.
Note that the crude death रेट as पारिभाषित ऊपर और applied to a whole population can give a misleading impression.
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and gender ) specific mortality rates and the age ( and gender ) वितरण of the population.
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for developed nations than in less-developed countries, despite life expectancy being higher in developed countries due to standards of health being better.
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely different population age distribution, with a much higher proportion of older people, due to both lower recent birth rates and lower mortality rates.
a अधिक पूरा चित्र of मृत्यु is दिए by a जीवन तालिका जिससे shows the मृत्यु रेट separately लिये each age.
A life table is necessary to give a good estimate of life expectancy.
An otoacoustic emission ( OAE ) is a sound जिससे is उत्पन्न from within the inner ear.
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948, its existence was first demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have चूंकि महरूम shown to arise by a number of different cellular mechanisms within the inner ear.
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been damaged, so OAEs are often used in the laboratory and the clinic as a measure of inner ear health.
Broadly speaking, वहीँ हैं दो प्रकार of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ), which can occur without external stimulation, and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ), which require an evoking stimulus.
hurricane Tomas was the nineteenth named storm and twelfth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season.
Tomas developed from a tropical wave east of the Windward Islands on October 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it moved through the Windward Islands and passed very near Saint Lucia.
बाद reaching श्रेणी 2 औकात on the saffir-simpson स्केल, टॉमस जल्दी weakened to a तीव्र तूफ़ान in the सेंट्रल caribbean समुद्र, due to दमदार हवा shear और शुष्क एयर.
Tomas later regained hurricane status as it reorganized near the Windward ड्योढ़ी.
Throughout the hurricane 's पाथ, 71 people are known to have been killed, 14 of whom were in Saint Lucia.
मौद्रिक losses throughout the Windward Islands were estimated at US $ 588 million, mainly in Saint Lucia.
In the wake of the storm in हैती, flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in December 2010, 55 लोगों यहूद killed in Cuba and Hispanola, though the distribution of these fatalities are unknown.
Overall damage from the storm was at least $ 741 million.
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an American comedian, actress, satirist, singer and internet blogger best known as a cast member of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न स्केच कॉमेडी श्रेणी शनिवार Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992.
She has received attention as a vocal critic of President Barack Obama, and is an active participant in the Tea Party movement.
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by heavy reliance on techniques like fragmentation, paradox, and questionable narrators, and is often ( though not exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era.
postmodern works हैं देखी as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध आत्मज्ञान सोच और modernist approaches to साहित्य.
Postmodern literature, like postmodernism as a whole, tends to resist definition or वर्गीकरण as a `` movement ''.
Indeed, the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory, particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches, and the subversions of the अव्यक्त अनुबंध between लेखक, टेक्स्ट और रीडर by जिससे इसके works हैं often characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold.
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics, scope, and importance of postmodern literature, as is often the case with artistic movements, postmodern literature is commonly defined in relation to a precursor.
For example, a postmodern literary work tends not to conclude with the neatly tied-up ending as is often found in modernist literature, but often parodies it.
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate chance over craft, and further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority.
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions between high and low culture through the use of pastiche, the combination of subjects and genres not previously deemed fit for literature.
पहेली is an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक musical project founded in Germany by Michael Cretu, David Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990.
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany, but based his recording studio A.R.T. Studios in Ibiza, Spain, from the early 1990s until May 2009, where he has recorded सब of पहेली 's studio releases to date.
Cretu is both the composer and the producer of the project.
His former wife, pop singer Sandra, often provided vocals on Enigma tracks.
Jens Gad co-arranged and played guitar on three of the Enigma albums.
Peter Cornelius also contributed to Enigma during the 1990s.
सात studio albums have been produced under the name of the project.
scooby-doo is an American animated cartoon franchise, comprising several animated television series produced from 1969 to the present day.
The असली series, Scooby-Doo, Where Are You !
, थी निर्मित लिये hanna-barbera प्रोडक्शन्स by लेखक जो माणिक्य और केन स्पीयर्स in 1969.
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones, Daphne Blake, Velma Dinkley, and Norville `` Shaggy '' रोजर्स — और उनके talking brown Great Dane dog named Scooby-Doo, who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps.
Following the success of the original series, Hanna-Barbera and its successor Warner Bros. Animation have produced numerous follow-up and spin-off animated series and several related works, including television specials and telefilms, a line of direct-to-video films, और दो warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films.
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different variations on the show 's अलौकिक theme, and include characters such as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters.
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on CBS from 1969 to 1976, when it moved to ABC.
ABC aired the show until canceling it in 1986, and presented a spin-off featuring the characters as children, A Pup Named Scooby-Doo, from 1988 until 1991.
Two new Scooby-Doo series, What 's नई, scooby-doo ?
और shaggy और scooby-doo मिलेंगी a a सुराग ! ] ], aired as भाग of बच्चे wb on the wb संजाल और इसके successor, the cw संजाल, इससे 2002 जबतक 2008.
The सबसे recent Scooby-Doo series, Scooby-Doo !
Mystery Incorporated, aired on Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on Cartoon Network and Boomerang in the United States and other countries.
Call of Duty is a first-person and third-person shooter computer/ video game franchise.
The series began on the pc, and later expanded to consoles and handhelds.
अनेक spin-off खेल have भी महरूम released.
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in संसार युद्ध II, this includes : Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2, and Call of Duty 3.
Beginning with Modern Warfare, which is set in आधुनिक times, the series has shifted focus away from World War II.
Call of Duty 4 : आधुनिक warfare ( released November 2007 ) was followed by Call of Duty : World at War and Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2.
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War, while Modern Warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
Black Ops 2 ( Released November 13, 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025.
The Call of Duty games are published and owned by Activision with Aspyr Media प्रकाशन it for Apple OS X.
While the studio Infinity Ward primarily still develops them, Treyarch has also developed several of the titles with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other.
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter Interactive, Spark Unlimited, Amaze Entertainment, n-Space, Rebellion Developments, Ideaworks Game Studio, Sledgehammer खेल और nstigate Games.
The games use a variety of इंजन, including the id Tech 3, the Treyarch NGL, and the IW 5.0.
Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by Plan-B Toys, a card game created by Upper Deck, और a comic book mini-series published by WildStorm.
As of November 11, 2011, the Call Of Duty series have sold over 100 million copies.
As of March 31, 2012 there are 40 million monthly active players across all of the Call of Duty titles, with 10 million Call of Duty : Elite users and 2 million paying annual members.
Over 1.6 अरब hours of online gameplay have been logged Modern Warfare 3 since its 2011 release.
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether such property is transferred via a will, according to the state laws of intestacy or otherwise made as an incident of the death of the owner, such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust, or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries.
the एस्टेट कर is एक भाग of the एकीकृत तोहफा और एस्टेट कर प्रणाली in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The other part of the system, the gift tax, imposes a tax on transfers of property during a person 's life ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate.
In addition to the federal government, many states also impose an estate tax, साथ the state version called either an estate tax or an inheritance tax.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of the एस्टेट कर कॉल it the `` मौत कर ''.
If an asset is left to a spouse or a Federally recognized charity, the tax usually does not apply.
In addition, up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an individual, before and/or upon their death, without incurring federal gift or estate taxes.
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी actor and musician, known as the lead singer and rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush.
Following Bush 's separation in 2002, जिससे lasted for eight years, he was the lead singer and guitarist for Institute, and later began a solo career.
When performing solo, गेविन plays गीतों from his extensive musical libraries.
Rossdale has been ranked in the Top 100 Heavy Metal vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ).
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or March 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), बेहतर ज्ञात simply as Raphael, was an Italian painter and architect of the High Renaissance.
His work is admired for its clarity of form and ease of composition and लिये इसके visual achievement of the Neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur.
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci, he forms the traditional ट्रिनिटी of ग्रेट मास्टर्स of that period.
Raphael was enormously productive, running an unusually large workshop, and despite his death at 37, a large body of his work remains.
Many of his works are found in the Vatican Palace, where the frescoed Raphael Rooms were the central, and the largest, work of उसके करियर.
The बेहतरीन ज्ञात work is The School of Athens in the Vatican Stanza della Segnatura.
After his early years in Rome much of his work was self-designed, but for the most part executed by the कार्यशाला इससे his drawings, with considerable loss of quality.
He was extremely influential in his lifetime, though outside Rome his work was mostly known from his collaborative printmaking.
बाद उसके मौत, the influence of उसके ग्रेट प्रतिद्वंद्वी michelangelo थी अधिक फैली जबतक the 18th और 19th सदियां, जब राफेल 's अधिक निर्मल और समन्वयात्मक qualities यहूद again regarded as the उच्चतम models.
His करियर जलप्रपात naturally into तीन phases and three styles, first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria, then a period of about four years ( from 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic traditions of Florence, followed by his last hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome, working for two Popes and their close associates.
Julia Fiona रॉबर्ट्स ( born October 28, 1967 ) is an American actress.
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the romantic comedy Pretty Woman ( 1990 ), which grossed $ 464 million worldwide.
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman, she won the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री for her performance in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ), My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ), Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting Hill ( 1999 ), Runaway Bride ( 1999 ), Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ), Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie Wilson 's War ( 2007 ), Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ), Eat Pray Love ( 2010 ), and Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion, making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts.
रॉबर्ट्स था become एक of the highest-paid actresses in the world, topping The Hollywood Reporters annual `` power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006.
उसके शुल्क लिये 1990 's pretty स्त्री थी $ 300,000 ; in 2003, वो थी सशुल्क an unprecedented $ 25 लाख लिये उसके भूमिका in mona लिसा मुस्कान ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, Roberts 's net worth was अनुमानित to be $ 140 million.
Roberts has been named one of People magazine 's `` 50 Most Beautiful People in the World '' eleven times, tied with Halle Berry.
in 2011, वो थी नामित एक of the `` 100 hottest महिलाओं of all-time '' by मेन 's स्वास्थ्य.
In 2001, Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the 11th most powerful woman in the संयुक्त राज्य.
चिह्नित इलियट zuckerberg ( born may 14, 1984 ) is an अमरीकी कंप्यूटर प्रोग्रामर और अंतरजाल उद्योगों.
He is best known as one of five co-founders of the social networking website Facebook.
As of April 2013, Zuckerberg is the chairman and chief कार्यपालिका of Facebook, Inc. and in 2013 his personal wealth was estimated to be US $ 13.3 billion.
Together with his college roommates and fellow हार्वर्ड University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes, Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms.
The group then introduced Facebook onto other campuses nationwide and moved to Palo Alto, California, United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three years, Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of Facebook and the number of Facebook users worldwide reached a total of one billion in 2012.
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that were initiated by others in the group, who claimed a share of the कम्पनी आधारित upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook.
Since 2010, Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest and most influential people in the world by Time magazine as a part of its Person of the Year accolade.
Zuckerberg was played by actor Jesse Eisenberg in the 2010 हॉलीवुड फिल्मी The Social Network in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed.
The Mayflower थी the जलयान कि in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims, including a core group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is one of travail and survival in a harsh New World environment.
framedthe
Committee of Ways and Means is the chief tax -writing कमेटी of the United States House of Representatives.
Members of the Ways and Means Committee हैं नहीं allowed to serve on any other House Committees unless they apply for a waiver from their party 's congressional leadership.
The कमेटी has jurisdiction over all taxation, tariffs and other revenue-raising measures, as well as a number of other programs including:
सोशल Security
बेरोजगारी benefits
medicare
Enforcement of child support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, a federal welfare कार्यक्रम
फोस्टर care and adoption programs
The U.S. संविधान requires कि सब bills regarding taxation must originate in the House of Representatives.
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this committee, the committee is very influential, as is its Senate counterpart, the u.S. Senate Committee on Finance.
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by Charlie Rangel, who had taken a leave of absence as chairman until House ethics violations were resolved.
However, his leave of absence as chairman was शासित to be a resignation.
Pete Stark resigned as acting chairman, so Sander Levin held that position until the start of the 112th Congress.
Dave Camp became the committee chair for the 112th Congress, after the Republicans won control of the House in the 2010 election.
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ).
At in length and or more in weight, it is the largest known animal to have ever existed.
Long और slender, the blue whale 's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat lighter underneath.
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific, B. m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean and B. m. brevicauda ( also known as the pygmy blue whale ) मिला in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean.
B. m. indica, found in the Indian Ocean, may be another subspecies.
As with other baleen whales, its diet consists almost exclusively of छोटी crustaceans ज्ञात as krill.
Blue whales were abundant in nearly all the oceans on Earth until the beginning of the बीसवीं सदी.
For over a सदी, वे यहूद hunted लगभग to extinction by whalers जबतक सुरक्षित by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय जातियाँ in 1966.
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales worldwide, located in at least five groups.
More recent research into the सानो subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest population was in the Antarctic, numbering approximately 239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ).
There remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) concentrations in each of the eastern North Pacific, अंटार्कटिक, and Indian Ocean groups.
There are two more groups in the North Atlantic, and at तनिक दो in the Southern Hemisphere.
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a variety of a species of thistle cultivated as a food.
the खाद्य पदार्थ is कलियों कि रूप भीतर the पुष्प heads पहले the पुष्प आइये into खिलते.
The buds go away or change to a coarse, barely edible form when the flower blooms.
The uncultivated or wild variety of the species is called a cardoon.
It is a बारहमासी plant native to the Mediterranean region.
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
U.S. statesman, inventor, and diplomat Benjamin Franklin is currently featured on the obverse of the bill.
On the reverse of the banknote is an image of Independence Hall.
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been printed since July 13, 1969, when the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were retired.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 100 bill in circulation is 90 months ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to wear and tear.
The बिल्स are also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '', in reference to the use of Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on the denomination, or `` C-Notes '', based on the Roman numeral for 100.
The bill is one of two denominations printed today that does not feature a President of the United States ; the other is the $ 10 विधेयक, featuring Alexander Hamilton.
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse, according to the U.S. Bureau of Engraving and Printing, shows approximately 4:10.
एक सौ hundred-dollar बिल्स हैं वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21, 2010, and was to be जारी to the public on February 11, 2011, but production was shut down in December 2010 because as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw.
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a blank space on the bill when खींचा out.
In their replacement, and continuing the high demand of this denomination, the Series 2006A was launched retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ).
On April 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve announced the new $ 100 bill would enter circulation on October 8, 2013.
King David in robes of a बीज़ान्टिन सम्राट.
miniature इससे the Paris Psalter.
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the Hebrew Bible, was the second king of the United Kingdom of Israel, and according to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE, his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE, and his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE.
The Books of Samuel, 1 Kings, and 1 Chronicles are the only sources of information on David, although the Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of David '', which most scholars take as confirmation of the existence in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of David.
He is depicted as a righteous king, although not without faults, as well as an acclaimed warrior, musician, and poet, traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms.
David is central to Jewish, Christian, and Islamic doctrine and संस्कृति.
Biblical tradition maintains that a direct descendant of David will be the Messiah.
In Islam he is considered to be a prophet and the king of a स्वदेश.
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the पूंजी and largest urban agglomerate of Nepal.
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu Metropolitan City at its core, and its sister cities Patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
It also includes the recently पहचाना urban areas of Shankhapur, Karyabinayak, and Champapur.
Banepa, Dhulikhel, and Panauti are satellite urban areas of Kathmandu located just outside the Kathmandu valley.
काठमांडू is भी ज्ञात informally as `` ktm '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, काठमांडू metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the agglomerate has a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants.
The metropolitan city area is and has a population घनत्व of 19,250 per km2.
The city stands at an elevation of approximately in the bowl-shaped काठमांडू Valley of central Nepal.
it is घिरी by चार प्रमुख kyu : shivapuri, phulchoki, nagarjun, और Chandragiri.
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu, Lalitpur, and Bhaktapur ), has the highest population density in the country, and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population.
During Rana and Shah eras, the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the Kathmandu घाटी ; it was what people who lived outside the valley called it.
During this period, British historians called the valley itself `` Nepal Proper ''.
Today, Kathmandu is not only the capital of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, but also the मुख्यालय of the सेंट्रल विकास Region of Nepal.
The Central Region comprises three zones : Bagmati, Narayani, and Janakpur.
काठमांडू is located in the Bagmati Zone.
Kathmandu is the गेटवे to tourism in Nepal.
It is also the nerve center of the country 's economy.
It has the सबसे advanced infrastructure of any urban area in Nepal, and its economy is focused on tourism, which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter during a period of political unrest, but since then has improved. )
The city has a rich history, spanning nearly 2000 years, as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley.
Religious and cultural festivities form a major part of the lives of people residing in Kathmandu.
सबसे of काठमांडू 's लोगों follow हिंदुत्व और अनेक अन्य follow buddhism.
There are people of other religious beliefs as well, giving Kathmandu a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन culture.
Nepali is the most commonly spoken language in the city.
Nepal Bhasa is the indigenous भाषा spoken by the Newar people.
Hindi is widely समझा and English is understood by Kathmandu 's educated residents.
The city 's literacy rate is 98 %.
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur हैं अभिन्न to काठमांडू 's cultural heritage, tourism industry, and economy ; therefore UNESCO 's World Heritage Site lists all three cities ' monuments and attractions together under one heading, `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site ``.
Field hockey, usually referred to simply as hockey, is a team sport of the hockey family which is played between two teams of eleven players with hockey sticks and a hard, solid plastic ball.
At the turn of the 21st century, the game is played globally, with particular popularity throughout Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America – in addition to being the national sport of Pakistan and India.
the term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada, the United States, and other regions of the world where the sport of ice hockey is more popular.
During play, goal keepers are the only players who are allowed to touch the ball with any part of their body ( with the exception of a player 's hand considered 'part of the stick ' ), with this only applying within the shooting circle ( also known as the D, or shooting arc, or just the circle ), while field players play the बॉल साथ the चपटा पक्ष of उनके stick.
The team that scores the most goals by the end of the match wins.
If the score is tied at the end of the game, either a draw is declared or the game goes into extra time and/or a penalty shootout, depending on the competition 's format.
The governing body of hockey is the International Hockey Federation ( FIH ), with men and women being represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games, Commonwealth games, Hockey World Cup, Champions Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup, with many countries running extensive junior, senior, and masters ' club competitions.
The fih is भी जिम्मेदार for organising the Hockey Rules Board and developing the rules for the sport.
A popular variant of फ़ील्ड हॉकी is indoor hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey.
अंदर हॉकी is a 6-a-side रूपांतर, साथ a फ़ील्ड जिससे is घटाया to लगभग 40m × 20m.
With many of the rules remaining the same, including obstruction and feet, there are several key विसंगतियाँ - Players may not raise the ball unless shooting on goal, players may not hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off.
Ethan `` Cane '' Ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from the American CBS soap opera The Young and the Restless.
He is portrayed by Australian actor Daniel Goddard, who originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the World Turns but was recommended for a role on The Young and the बेचैन बजाय.
The role was to be portrayed as an American, but Goddard 's Australian descent influenced the character 's background.
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the episode airing on January 12, 2007 as an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई bartender in search of his family, a debut that received a mixed response.
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the character 's background was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009, reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ).
Though characterized as `` mysterious '', Cane is `` loyal और समर्पित '', जबकि Goddard described the character as a `` typical Australian, working-class kind of guy ''.
He was the first member of the Atkinson family to appear on the श्रेणी, followed by his parents and identical twin brother.
Soon after his debut, he became a leading character, a decision praised by viewers and critics.
The character has been involved with Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ), Chloe Mitchell ( Elizabeth Hendrickson ) and most notably Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ), a रोमांस कि garnered significant प्रशंसक ध्यान.
In 2009, Cane and Lily were married ; Global BC would later call Lily the love of Cane 's life.
The जोड़ी था two children, Charlie and Mattie Ashby.
In 2011, the actor was fired, and Cane was shot to death onscreen.
However, Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return, revealing that Cane 's identical twin brother was in fact the man who died.
इस कुर्बान उसके marriage to Lily, but the couple were remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012.
Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News said that he portrays the character honestly, and is `` always dependable, on fire and exciting ''.
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an American actor, film producer, and musician.
He has won the Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild award for Best Actor.
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s television series 21 Jump Street, becoming a teen idol.
Dissatisfied with that status, Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office success in films such as Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ), Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ( 2005 ), Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ), Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ).
He has collaborated साथ director and friend Tim Burton in eight films ; the most recent being Dark Shadows ( 2012 ).
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco, Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, George Jung in Blow, and the bank robber John Dillinger in Michael Mann 's Public Enemies.
Films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 अरब at the United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide.
He has been nominated for top awards many times, जीतना the बेहतरीन Actor Awards from the Golden –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy for Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl.
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in American सिनेमा, being twice named as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009.
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of World Records as the highest paid actor, with $ 75 लाख.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly known as the web ), is a system of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web ब्राउजर, एक can दृश्य वेब पृष्ठों that may contain text, images, videos, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year.
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born November 11, 1986 ) is an American football क्वार्टरबैक लिये the New York Jets of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft as the fifth overall selection by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall.
He played कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल at the University of Southern California ( USC ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined and एथलेटिक परिवार.
In the eighth grade, he began to play football and learn the intricacies of the quarterback position, training with his father, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to Southern California following his successful high school career in which he led his team to a चैंपियनशिप title during his final season.
At USC, Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first three years though he rose to prominence due to his brief appearances on the फ़ील्ड in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty.
Sanchez also became लोकप्रिय within the community due to his Mexican-American heritage.
Named the starter in 2008, Sanchez led USC to a 12–1 record and won the Rose Bowl against Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense.
Although अनेक considered him too inexperienced, Sanchez announced his intention to enter the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up with the Cleveland Browns, and was named the starting quarterback prior to the start of the season.
Despite a subpar performance, Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC Championship Game, a losing effort to the Indianapolis Colts, becoming the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL history to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games.
In his second season, सांचेज़ जारी to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive AFC Championship Game where they narrowly lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers, 24–19.
With the जीत over the नई इंग्लैण्ड देशप्रेमी the सप्ताह prior, सांचेज़ tied चार अन्य quarterbacks लिये the दूसरी सबसे post-season सड़क victories by a क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास.
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships, Sanchez joined quarterback Ben Roethlisberger as the only two quarterbacks in NFL history to reach the conference championship in their first two seasons in the league.
The next two seasons would be a स्लोप for both the team and Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs.
Fans and media critics called for a struggling Sanchez to be benched.
He आखिरकार थी replaced towards the end of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy.
Paul एवेरी ( अप्रैल 2, 1934december 10, 2000 ) थी an अमरीकी पुलिस रिपोर्टर, बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके कहानियां on the infamous सीरियल कातिल ज्ञात as the zodiac, और बाद लिये उसके कार्य on the पेट्रीसिया hearst अपहरण.
A small submersible AC sump pump with a garden hose connector
A sump pump is a pump used to remove जल कि रै accumulated in a water collecting sump basin, commonly found in the basement of homes.
The water may enter via the घेरा नालों of a basement waterproofing system, funneling into the basin or because of rain or natural ground water, if the basement is below the water table level.
Sump पंपों हैं प्रयुक्त जहाँ तहखाने बाढ़ happens regularly and to remedy dampness where the water table is above the foundation of a home.
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place where it is no longer problematic, such as a municipal storm drain or a dry well.
पंपों may निर्वहन to the sanitary सीवर in पुरानी संस्थापना.
Once considered acceptable, this practice may now violate the plumbing code or municipal bylaws, because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system.
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect and reroute sump pump discharge away from sanitary sewers.
Fines may be imposed for noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited their sump pump configurations and do not realize that the pump discharges to the sewer.
If the discharge is fed to a laundry sink in the basement, it 's likely going to the sewer.
Usually hardwired into a घर 's electrical system, sump pumps may have a battery backup.
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps, eliminating the need for electricity at the expense of using potable water, potentially making them more expensive to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem.
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped, a backup system is important for cases when the main power is out for prolonged periods of time, as during a severe storm.
वहीँ हैं generally दो प्रकार of sump पंपों — pedestal और submersible.
the pedestal pump 's motor is mounted above the sump, where it is more easily serviced, but is also more conspicuous.
The pump impeller is driven by a long, vertical extension shaft and the impeller is in a स्क्रॉल आवास in the base of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely mounted inside the sump, and is specially sealed to prevent electrical short circuits.
Sump pump systems are also utilized in औद्योगिक और commercial applications to control water table -related problems in surface soil.
An artesian aquifer or periodic high water तालिका situation can cause the ground to become unstable due to water saturation.
As long as the pump कृत्यों, the surface soil will remain stable.
These sumps are typically ten feet in depth or more ; lined with corrugated metal pipe that contains perforations or drain holes throughout.
They may include electronic control systems with visual and audible alarms and are usually covered to prevent debris and animals from falling in.
bleeding कान्सास, खूनी कान्सास or the Border War, was a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and pro-slavery `` Border Ruffian `` elements, that took place in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861.
At the heart of the conflict थी the सवाल of whether Kansas would enter the Union as a free state or slave state.
As such, Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between Northerners and Southerners over the issue of slavery in the United राज्य.
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by होरेस greeley of the नई यॉर्क Tribune ; the events it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War.
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery forces.
The events बाद known as Bleeding Kansas were set into motion by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854, which nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty.
An ostensibly democratic idea, popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of प्रत्येक territory or राज्य should decide whether it would be a free or slave state ; however, this resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides.
At one point, Kansas had दो separate governments, each with its own constitution, although only one was federally recognized.
On January 29, 1861, Kansas was admitted to the Union as a free state, less than three महीने पहले the बैटल of Fort Sumter which began the Civil War.
बेंजीन is an सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक साथ the आणविक सूत्र c6 h|hydrogen|h6.
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom.
Because its molecules contain तभी कार्बन और हाइड्रोजन atoms, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil, and is one of the most basic petrochemicals.
बेंजीन is an खुशबूदार हाइड्रोकार्बन and the second [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a cyclic hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H. Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable liquid साथ a sweet smell.
It is mainly used as a precursor to heavy chemicals, ऐसे as ethylbenzene and cumene, which are produced on a billion kilogram scale.
Because it has a high octane number, it is an important component of gasoline, composing a few प्रतिशत of its mass.
Most non-industrial अनुप्रयोग have been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an इतालवी astronomer and science historian.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's Wii game console to run software that has not been authorized by Nintendo.
It achieves this by defeating the Wii 's copy protection and code signing measures.
In more general terms, Wii Homebrew refers to the use of the Wii 's hardware, accessories and software for purposes outside those intended by the manufacturer.
असली प्रयत्न focused on using the Wii Remote as a pointing device on other operating systems, or running web-based games in the built-in web browser.
Subsequent developments in games exploits, such as the `` Twilight hack ``, `` Bannerbomb '' and its later incarnation `` LetterBomb '', `` Smash Stack '', `` Indiana Pwns '', `` yu-gi-owned '', `` bathaxx '', and `` Return of the Jodi '', made installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible.
Hadley ( right ) discussing the 2006 israel-lebanon संकट साथ Bush and Rice.
Stephen John हैडली ( born फ़रवरी 13, 1947 ) थी the 21st u.S. सहायक to the अध्यक्ष लिये नेशनल सुरक्षा अफेयर्स ( commonly referred as नेशनल सुरक्षा सलाहकार ), सेवारत अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश.
Take identical growing plants and give fertilizer to हाफ of them.
If there are differences between the fertilized plant group and the unfertilized `` control '' group, these differences may be due to the fertilizer.
A वैज्ञानिक कंट्रोल is an प्रयोग or अवलोकन designed to minimize the प्रभाव of परिवर्तनीय अन्य than the सिंगल स्वतंत्र परिवर्तनीय.
This increases the reliability of the results, प्रायः through a तुलना between control measurements and the other measurements.
वैज्ञानिक controls are a part of the scientific method.
लिये उदाहरण, दौरान ड्रग परीक्षण, वैज्ञानिकों होगा कोशिश to कंट्रोल दो समूह to रखना उन्हें as एकसमान as संभावित, तब allow एक समूह to कोशिश the ड्रग.
another उदाहरण might be परीक्षण संयंत्र उर्वरक by giving it to तभी हाफ the पौधे in a गार्डन : the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक हैं the कंट्रोल समूह, क्युकी वे स्थापित the बेसलाइन स्तर of विकास कि the fertilizer-treated पौधे होगा be compared विरूद्ध.
Without a control group, the experiment can not determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow more than they would have if untreated.
Ideally, all variables in an experiment will be नियंत्रित ( accounted for by the control measurements ) and none will be uncontrolled.
In such an experiment, if all the controls work as expected, it is possible to conclude that the experiment is working as intended and that the results of the experiment are due to the effect of the परिवर्तनीय being tested.
That is, scientific controls allow an investigator to make a claim like `` Two situations were identical until factor X occurred.
Since factor X is the only difference between the two situations, the new outcome was caused by factor x. ''
< < रासायनिक elements data references
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States.
an अमरीकी founding पिता, he थी a statesman, राजनयिक, और a अग्रणी एडवोकेट of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन.
Well educated, he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of the American क्रान्ति.
A lawyer and public figure in Boston, as a delegate from Massachusetts to the Continental कॉंग्रेस, he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, and was its primary advocate in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain, and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts संविधान in 1780, जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on Government, influenced American political thought.
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian Republicans, as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` quasi-war `` ) साथ France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his presidency was his peaceful रेज़ोल्यूशन of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
In 1800, Adams was defeated लिये re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts.
he बाद resumed उसके दोस्ती साथ जेफरसन.
He and his wife, Abigail Adams, founded an accomplished family line of राजनेता, राजनयिकों, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams was the पिता of John Quincy Adams, the sixth President of the United States.
His achievements have received greater मान्यता in modern times, though his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the building that आखिरकार became ज्ञात as the White House.
A वाट steam engine.
The steam engine, fuelled primarily by coal, propelled the Industrial Revolution in Great Britain and the world.
The Industrial Revolution was the transition to new manufacturing प्रक्रियाओं that occurred in the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840.
This परिवर्तन शामिल going from hand production methods to machines, new chemical manufacturing and iron production processes, improved efficiency of water power, the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools.
The transition also included the change from wood और other bio-fuels to coal.
The Industrial क्रान्ति began in Britain and within a few decades spread to Western Europe and the United States.
The Industrial Revolution marks a major turning point in history ; लगभग every aspect of daily life was influenced in some way.
Most notably, average income and population began to exhibit unprecedented sustained विकास.
In the words of नोबेल पुरस्कार विजेता रॉबर्ट E. Lucas, Jr., `` For the first time in history, the living standards of the masses of ordinary people have begun to undergo sustained growth... Nothing remotely like this economic behavior is mentioned by the classical economists, even as a theoretical possibility. ''
William Bell स्कॉट Iron and Coal, 1855-60
The period of time covered by the Industrial Revolution varies with different historians.
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s and was not fully felt until the 1830s or 1840s, while T. S. Ashton held that it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued that the process of economic and social change took place gradually and the term revolution is a misnomer.
इस is still a subject of debate among historians.
GDP per capita was broadly stable before the Industrial क्रान्ति and the emergence of the modern capitalist economy.
The औद्योगिक क्रान्ति began an era of per-capita आर्थिक विकास in पूंजीवादी economies.
Economic historians are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important event in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants.
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870, when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of steam-powered boats, ships and railways, the large scale manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of steam powered factories.
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born September 27, 1969 ), is an American television news reporter, currently appearing on Fox News Channel.
This list ranks u.S. cities by land area ( not including bodies of water ).
Total areas ( including water ) are also given, but note that, when क्रमित by total area, a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San Francisco is an extreme example ; water makes up nearly 80 % of its total area of 232 वर्गाकार मील ( 601 km2 ).
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily because its municipal government has merged with the government of the surrounding county.
In some cases the county no longer exists, while in others the arrangement has formed a Consolidated city–county ( or city- borough in Alaska, or city- parish in Louisiana ).
These are shown in bold in the list below ( but not all examples may be indicated ).
** These are independent cities, meaning they are नहीं a part of any county.
The large intestine ( or bowel, कोलन ) is the last part of the digestive system in vertebrate animals.
Its function is to absorb water from the remaining indigestible food matter, and तब to pass व्यर्थ बर्बाद सामग्री from the body.
This article is primarily about the human gut, though the information about its processes are directly applicable to most mammals.
The विशाल आंत consists of the cecum, rectum and anal canal.
It starts in the right iliac region of the pelvis, बस at or नीचे the right waist, where it is joined to the bottom end of the small intestine.
From here it continues up the abdomen, then across the width of the abdominal cavity, and then it turns down, continuing to its endpoint at the anus.
The large intestine is about long, which is about one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal canal.
In terminologia anatomica the large intestine includes the cecum, colon, rectum, and anal canal.
however, some sources exclude the anal canal.
The Green Bay Packers are an American football team based in Green Bay, विस्कॉन्सिन.
They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, having been organized and playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned प्रमुख league professional sports team in the United States.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
संस्थापित in 1919 by अर्ल `` घुंघराले '' lambeau ( hence the नाम lambeau फ़ील्ड on जिससे the टोली plays ) और जार्ज व्हिटनी calhoun, the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional टीमों in ग्रीन खाड़ी डेटिंग वापस to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the पैकर्स competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base and media extends into आसपास Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ), including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super Bowl II ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents, the Chicago Bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The bears-packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized valley located in the Los Angeles metropolitan area of southern California, United States, defined by the mountains of the अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ घूमना it.
Home to 1.76 million people, it lies north of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin.
Nearly two तिहाई of the घाटी 's land area is part of the City of Los Angeles.
The other incorporated cities in the valley are Glendale, burbank, San Fernando, Hidden Hills and Calabasas.
San Fernando घाटी, Los Angeles
The exterior of the current World of Coca-Cola at Pemberton Place.
The World of Coca-Cola, is a permanent exhibition featuring the history of The Coca-Cola Company.
Its well-known advertising as well as a host of entertainment areas and attractions, and is located in Atlanta, Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton, the inventor of Coca-Cola ).
as part of Georgia 's संग्रहालय.
the complex located across Baker Street from Centennial Olympic Park कि is घर to the जॉर्जिया एक्वेरियम और future Center for Civil & Human Rights.
It opened to the public on may 24, 2007, relocating from and replacing the original exhibit.
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction novel and the second book of the Uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld.
It is set in a future dystopian world in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by चरम कॉस्मेटिक surgery upon reaching age 16.
It tells the story of teenager Tally Youngblood who rebels against society 's enforced conformity.
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26, 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to life in prison for murdering her children.
Born in Union, South Carolina, and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union, she was convicted on July 22, 1995 for murdering her two sons, 3-year-old Michael Daniel Smith, born October 10, 1991, and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith, born August 5, 1993.
The case gained worldwide attention shortly after it developed, due to her claiming that a black man stole her car and kidnapped her sons.
She later claimed that she suffered from mental health issues that impaired her निर्णय.
According to the South Carolina Department of Corrections, Smith will be eligible for parole on नवम्बर 4, 2024, after serving a minimum of thirty years.
वो is incarcerated at South Carolina 's Leath Correctional Institution, near Greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the इनुइट koyukon athabaskan language meaning `` The Great One '' ) is the highest mountain peak in the United States and in North America with a summit elevation of above sea level.
At कुछ, the base to peak rise is considered the largest of any mountain situated entirely above sea level.
Measured by topographic prominence, it is the third most prominent peak after Mount Everest and Aconcagua.
Located in the Alaska Range in the आंतरिक of us state of Alaska, it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve.
The पहला यूरोपीय to दस्तावेज़ sighting the mountain was George Vancouver in 1794.
in 1903, जेम्स wickersham अंकित the पहला attempt at चढ़ाई mckinley जिससे थी unsuccessful.
In 1906, फ्रेडरिक Cook claimed the first ascent which was later proven to be false.
The first verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit was achieved on June 7, 1913 by climbers Hudson Stuck, हैरी karstens, वाल्टर हार्पर, and Robert Tatum.
In 1951, Bradford Washburn pioneered the West Buttress route considered to be the safest and easiest route and therefore the most popular currently in use.
the होंडा S600 is an automobile manufactured by Honda.
It was शुभारम्भ in March 1964.
Available as a roadster – bearing strong resemblance to the Honda S500 – and as a fastback coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the S600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels.
During its production run up to 1966, the model styling would remain pretty much the same, with the most notable changes coming to the front grille, बम्पर, और headlights.
Powered by a DOHC, water-cooled, four-cylinder inline engine with four carburetors, the engine capacity was increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc.
The engine produced at 8,500 rpm and had a top speed of.
With the convertible weighing in at mere, the अतिरिक्त चादर मेटल of the coupe only added to the overall weight.
Suspension was independent with sealed roller chain drive to each rear व्हील.
The S600 was the first mass marketed Honda car.
First offered only in right-hand drive, it जल्द became available in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets.
There were a few pre-production S500s manufactured in left hand drive, two or three even being shown in some early sales brochures.
दोनो the s600 roadster और coupé यहूद उपलब्धियाँ in मानक trim and a special, upgraded package called the SM600 which included, among other items, special paint colors, exclusive badging, a standard radio and speaker, a special antenna in the passenger side sun visor, standard reversing lights, a standard cigarette lighter, a standard heater, better cushioned seats, and a detachable seat track for quick removal of the passenger seat.
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964, with production climbing to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965.
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the S800 ) with only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800 coupes for the 3 year span.
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom that depicts the teenage experiences of comedian Chris Rock ( who is also the narrator ) while growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York.
The show is set between 1983 और 1987 ; however, Rock himself was a teenager between 1978 and 1983.
Rock grew up with a boy named केनी montero, whom he has often referred to as the inspiration for a lot of the episodes.
In many interviews, Rock has described Kenny as the reason he got into comedy in the first place.
The दिखाएँ 's title parodies the CBS sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond.
Rock stated : `` Everybody Loves Raymond but Everybody Hates Chris ! ``.
The show 's lead actors हैं टायलर जेम्स Williams, Terry Crews, Tichina Arnold, Tequan Richmond, Imani Hakim, and Vincent Martella.
In Fall 2008, the The CW moved Everybody Hates क्रिस and The Game to the Friday night death slot.
The fourth season of the श्रेणी premiered Friday, October 3, 2008, at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central.
On May 21, 2009, The CW announced कि it had cancelled Everybody Hates Chris.
Prior to this, executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4 matched up with his own past—dropping out of ऊँची स्कूल to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show.
Pleural उत्सर्ग is excess fluid that accumulates between the two pleural layers, the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs.
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the expansion of the lungs during ventilation.
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old English heroic epic poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines, set in Scandinavia, commonly cited as one of the सबसे important works of Anglo-Saxon literature.
It survives in a single manuscript known as the Nowell Codex.
Its composition by an anonymous Anglo-Saxon poet is dated between the 8th and the early 11th century.
In 1731, the manuscript was badly damaged by a fire that swept through a building housing a collection of Medieval manuscripts assembled by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton.
The poem fell into obscurity for decades, and its existence did not become widely known again until it was printed in 1815 in an edition prepared by the Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin.
In the poem, Beowulf, a hero of the Geats in scandinavia, आता to the help of Hroðgar, the king of the Danes, whose mead hall ( in Heorot ) has been under attack by a monster known as Grendel.
After Beowulf slays him, grendel 's mother attacks the hall and is then also defeated.
Victorious, बियोवुल्फ़ goes घर to geatland in Sweden and later becomes king of the Geats.
After a period of fifty years has passed, Beowulf defeats a dragon, but is fatally wounded in the battle.
After his death, उसके सेवकों दफनाने him in a tumulus, a burial mound, in Geatland.
Shem Ham और Japheth by James Tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም, Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) was one of the बेटे of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic literature.
He is most popularly regarded as the eldest son, though some traditions regard him as the second son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to relative ages of Shem and his brother Japheth, लकिन साथ sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations.
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born. ``.
However, the New American Standard Bible gives, `` Also to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, and the older brother of Japheth, children were born. ''
उत्पत्ति 11:10 रिकॉर्ड कि shem थी स्टिल 100 सालो बूढ़ा at the जनम of arphaxad, ( लकिन nearly 101 - देखिए कालक्रम नोट, ) दो सालो बाद the बाढ़, बनाना उसे मुश्किल 99 at the समय the बाढ़ began ; और कि he जिया लिये another 500 सालो बाद इस, बनाना उसके age at death 600 years.
The children of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram, in addition to बेटियां.
Abraham, the patriarch of the Hebrews and Arabs, was one of the वंशजों of Arphaxad.
इस्लामी साहित्य describes Shem as one of the believing sons of Noah.
Some स्त्रोत भी पहचानो Shem as a prophet in his own right and that he was the next prophet after his father.
in एक Muslim legend, Shem was one of the people that God made Jesus resurrect as a sign to the Children of Israel.
The 1st century historian Flavius Josephus, among many others, recounted the tradition that these five sons were the progenitors of the राष्ट्र of ईलम, assyria, Chaldea, Lydia, and Syria, respectively.
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages, as a subset of the Afro-Asiatic languages, denoting the common linguistic heritage of Arabic, Aramaic, Akkadian, Ethiopic, Hebrew and Phoenician languages.
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis rabbah 56:10 ; leviticus rabbah 25:6 ; संख्याएँ rabbah 4:8. ), Shem is believed to have been Melchizedek, King of Salem whom Abraham is recorded to have met after the battle of the four kings.
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources that describe उसे, Shem is also credited with killing Nimrod, son of Cush.
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4.
Geographic identifications of flavius josephus, c. 100 AD ; Japheth 's sons shown in red, Ham 's sons in blue, Shem 's sons in green.
go पापा or go पापा समूह inc. is a privately आयोजित कम्पनी कि is primarily an अंतरजाल डोमेन रजिस्ट्रार और वेब होस्टिंग कम्पनी.
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006, but later canceled it, due to `` market uncertainties ''.
In addition to domain registration and hosting Go Daddy also sells e-business related software and services.
On June 24, 2011, The Wall Street Journal reported कि private-equity firms KKR and Silver Lake Partners, along with a third investor, were nearing a deal to buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR, चांदी झील साझेदार and Technology Crossover Ventures had closed the deal.
Although the purchase price was not officially announced it was reported to be $ 2.25 billion, for 65 % of the company.
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to वारेन Adelman, who had been with the company for about 10 years.
The Andorran coat of arms at the Andorran पार्लियामेंट.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of Andorra ( ), also called the Principality of the Valleys of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe, located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France.
It is the sixth smallest nation in Europe, having an area of and an estimated population of 85,000 in 2012.
Its पूंजी, अंडोरा la Vella, is the highest capital city in Europe, at an elevation of above sea level.
The official language is Catalan, हालांकि Spanish, Portuguese, and French are also commonly spoken.
Created under a charter in 988, the present Principality was formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a साम्राज्य headed by two co-princes – the Bishop of Urgell and the President of France.
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly because of its tourism industry, which services an estimated 10.2 million visitors annually, and also because of its status as a tax haven.
It is not a member of the European Union, but the euro is the de facto करेंसी.
The people of Andorra have the 4th highest human life expectancy in the world — 82 years at जनम.
The George Washington University ( GW, GWU, or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, Bachelor degrees, Masters degrees, and PhDs across अनेक दर्जन disciplines.
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9, 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born October 21, 1980 ) is an American socialite, television personality and occasional actress.
In 2007, she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a court awarding her $ 5 million ; later in that same year, she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series keeping up with the Kardashians, and its subsequent spin-offs, including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
In 2010, Kardashian was the highest-earning reality star, with estimated earnings of $ 6 million.
With sisters Kourtney and Khloé, Kardashian co-owns the fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H.
She has been involved in the production of several lines of clothing and सुगंध.
In August 2011, Kardashian married basketball player Kris Humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
That October, कार्दशियन filed for divorce following 72 days of marriage.
The move garnered significant backlash from the मीडिया, who labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
After 536 days, Kardashian and Humphries reached an undisclosed settlement at the Los Angeles Superior Court, finalizing the divorce in April 2013.
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways and highways, 3D computer-generated image
fly-around दौरे of the द्वीप
Oahu ( ) or Oahu, known as `` The Gathering Place '', is the third largest of the Hawaiian Islands and the most populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii.
The state capital, Honolulu, is on oahu 's southeast coast.
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the आइलैंड्स in Kaneohe Bay and off the eastern ( windward ) coast, it has a total land area of, making it the 20th largest island in the United States.
In the greatest dimension, this volcanic island is long and across.
The length of the shoreline is.
The द्वीप is the परिणाम of दो पृथक शील्ड ज्वालामुखी : waianae और koolau, साथ a व्यापक `` घाटी '' or काठी ( the सेंट्रल oahu मैदान ) between उन्हें.
The highest point is Mt. Ka'ala in the Waianae Range, rising to ऊपर समुद्र स्तर.
The base currency of the United राज्य is the u.S. डालर, और is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
At one time, however, U.S. currency शामिल five larger denominations.
टीप in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, और $ 10,000 यहूद मुद्रित लिये सामान्य उपयोग, और a $ 100,000 नोट थी मुद्रित लिये निश्चित आतंरिक transactions.
British होंडुरास थी a अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश in सेंट्रल अमेरिका.
In 1981, the उपनिवेश gained full independence, and is now the independent nation of Belize.
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th century, the territory on the east coast of Central America, south of Mexico, became a अंग्रेजों crown colony in 1862.
In 1964, it became a self-governing उपनिवेश.
Belize became fully independent from the United Kingdom in 1981.
Belize was the last continental possession of the United Kingdom in the Americas.
Spelt, also known as dinkel wheat, or hulled गेहूं, is an ancient species of wheat from the fifth millennium BC.
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze Age to medieval times ; it now survives as a relict crop in Central Europe and northern Spain and has found a new market as a health food.
Spelt is sometimes considered a subspecies of the closely related species common wheat ( T. aestivum ), in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
It is a hexaploid wheat, which means it has six sets of chromosomes.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional जासूस निर्मित by author and physician Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
A London-based `` consulting detective '' जिनकी abilities border on the fantastic, Holmes is famous for his astute logical reasoning, his ability to adopt almost any disguise, and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases.
Holmes, who first appeared in publication in 1887, was featured in four novels and 56 short stories.
The first अनोखा, a पढ़ाई in स्कारलेट, appeared in beeton 's क्रिसमस सालाना in 1887 और the दूसरी, the चिह्न of the चार, in lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका in 1890.
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of short stories in The Strand Magazine, beginning साथ a कांड in बोहेमिया in 1891 ; further श्रेणी of short stories and two novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927.
The stories cover a period इससे around 1880 up to 1914.
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer, Dr. John H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` and `` The Lion 's Mane `` ) and two others are written in the तीसरा व्यक्ति ( `` the mazarin स्टोन `` and `` His Last Bow `` ).
In two stories ( `` The musgrave अनुष्ठान `` और `` the ग्लोरिया स्कॉट `` ), holmes tells वाटसन the प्रमुख स्टोरी इससे उसके यादें, जबकि वाटसन becomes the narrator of the फ़्रेम स्टोरी.
The first and fourth novels, A Study in Scarlet and The Valley of Fear, each include a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson.
The United States House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is frequently referred to as the House.
the other house is the Senate.
The composition and powers of the House are स्थापित in Article One of the United States Constitution.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further सहमत to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, and to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at least one representative.
The most populous state, California, currently has 53 representatives.
The total number of मतदान प्रतिनिधि is fixed by law at 435.
Each representative serves for a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the House, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the south wing of the United States Capitol.
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft Foods for a number of gelatin desserts, including fruit gels, puddings and no-bake cream pies.
The brand 's popularity has led to it being used as a generic term for gelatin dessert across the u.S. और Canada.
Kennywood is an amusement park located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Pittsburgh.
The park first opened in 1898 as a `` trolley park '' attraction at the end of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway.
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew McSwigan and thus began the Kennywood Entertainment company that has remained a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार for over 100 years.
This परंपरागत मनोरंजन park still has structures and rides dating back to its opening and the early 1900s.
Along with Rye Playland Park, it is one of only two amusement parks listed in the National Register of Historic Places.
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood Entertainment Company, which until December 2007 was a closely held family कारोबार स्वामित्व by the Henninger and McSwigan families.
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based Palace Entertainment, a subsidiary of Parques Reunidos, an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मनोरंजन पार्क कम्पनी based in Madrid, Spain.
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover Investments, an निवेश निधि based in the UK.
A Social Security card issued by the Railroad Retirement Board in 1943 to a now deceased person.
In the United States, a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and temporary ( working ) निवासियों अंतर्गत खण्ड 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act, codified as.
The number is issued to an individual by the Social Security प्रशासन, an independent agency of the United States government.
Its primary purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes.
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying on Form SS-5, `` Application for A Social Security Number Card ''.
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art and design, especially visual art and music, where the work is set out to expose the essence or identity of a subject through eliminating all non-essential forms, features or concepts.
Minimalism is any डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल in which the simplest and fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect.
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments in post–world युद्ध ii पश्चिमी आर्ट, सबसे strongly with American visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s.
Prominent artists associated with this movement include Donald Judd, John mccracken, agnes मार्टिन, Dan Flavin, Robert Morris, Anne Truitt, and Frank Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism, and is प्रायः interpreted as a reaction against Abstract expressionism and a bridge to Postminimal art practices.
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in music which features repetition and iteration, as in the compositions of La Monte Young, Terry Riley, Steve Reich, Philip Glass, and John Adams.
Minimalist compositions are sometimes known as systems music.
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything कि is spare or stripped to its essentials.
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett, the films of Robert Bresson, the stories of Raymond Carver, and even the automobile designs of Colin Chapman.
The word was first used in English in the early 20th century to describe the Mensheviks.
In chemistry and physics, Dalton 's law ( also called Dalton 's law of partial pressures ) राज्य कि the कुल दबाव exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases.
This empirical law was observed by John Dalton in 1801 and is related to the ideal gas laws.
Mathematically, the pressure of a mixture of gases can be defined as the summation
or
where represent the partial pressure of each component.
it is assumed that the gases do not react with each other
where is the mole भिन्न of the i-th component in the total mixture of n components.
The relationship below provides a way to determine the volume based concentration of any individual gaseous component
where is the concentration of the i-th component expressed in ppm.
Dalton 's law is नहीं exactly followed by real gases.
Those deviations are considerably large at high pressures.
In such conditions, the volume occupied by the molecules can become significant compared to the फ़्री space between them.
In particular, the छोटी औसत दूरियाँ between molecules raises the intensity of intermolecular forces between gas molecules enough to substantially change the pressure exerted by them.
neither of those effects are considered by the ideal gas model.
This is a list of the largest संयुक्त राज्य कॉलेजों और universities by enrollment for colleges and universities in the United States.
कया इस सूची शामिलs:
Colleges and universities within the United States
University systems if the प्रणाली is चलाएं अंतर्गत a single administration
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate and graduate students
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated post-secondary Education System within the U.S. Department of Education.
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the number of अद्वितीय विद्यार्थी जो attended the विश्वविद्यालयों during the year.
What this list does not include:
कोई indication of कैसा अनेक of the नामांकित विद्यार्थी हैं पूरा or भाग समय ( e.g., कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों may have a ऊँची नामांकन, लकिन have सबसे विद्यार्थी नामांकित in तभी a सिंगल class )
For other lists that measure university नामांकन, देखिए the See Also section below.
`` Right Round '' is a song performed by American rapper Flo Rida, released as the सीसे सिंगल from his second studio album, R.O.O.T.S. ( 2009 ).
The song सुविधाएँ guest vocals from Kesha.
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was digitally released on 10 February by Poe Boy Entertainment and Atlantic Records.
The song lyrically बोलती of flo rida 's जाल बॉल रेफरी enthusiasm, while adapting the chorus of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook.
According to one of the song 's writers, the chorus refers to मौखिक sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, but in the United States, दौरान the चलाएं atop the chart, Kesha was uncredited.
the सोंग प्राप्त ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, जो claimed it थी kitsch और misogynistic.
However, it was a commercial success, reaching the top ten of the charts in nineteen countries worldwide.
In the United States, it became Flo Rida 's second number-one single and broke the record for first-week sales when it was released to डिजिटल रिटेलर.
The single 's accompanying music video was directed by Malcolm Jones and nominated for an MTV Video Music Award.
the सोंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in अनेक फिल्मों, ऐसे as the hangover, the भद्दा सच्चाई और the तेलुगु फिल्म pilla zamindar.
in the फिल्म पिच पूर्ण, the सोंग is performed by the a cappella समूह the treblemakers.
The Chief Justice of the United States is the head of the United States federal court system ( the judicial branch of the federal government of the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United राज्य.
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States.
From 1789 until 1866, the office was known as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer in the country, and acts as a मुख्य प्रशासनिक officer for the federal courts and as head of the Judicial Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
The Chief Justice also serves as a spokesperson for the judicial branch.
The Chief इंसाफ leads the business of the Supreme Court.
He presides over oral arguments before the court.
When the court renders an opinion, the Chief justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the court 's opinion.
The Chief Justice also has significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings.
in the मामला of an महाभियोग of a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, जिससे रै occurred twice, the मुख्य इंसाफ presides over the विचारण in the Senate.
In modern tradition, the Chief Justice has the ceremonial duty of administering the oath of office of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य.
The first Chief Justice was John Jay.
the 17th और वर्तमान मुख्य इंसाफ is जॉन G. रॉबर्ट्स, jr.
Caribou near prudhoe Bay, 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a विशाल oil field on Alaska 's North Slope.
It is the largest oil field in both the संयुक्त States and in North America, covering and originally containing approximately of oil.
The amount of recoverable oil in the field is more than double that of the next largest फ़ील्ड in the United States, the East Texas oil field.
The field is operated by BP ; partners are exxonmobil और conocophillips Alaska.
Labor unions are legally recognized as representatives of workers in many industries in the United States.
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages, benefits, and working conditions for their membership, and on representing their members in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions.
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying activities and electioneering at the state and federal level.
Most unions in America are aligned with one of two larger umbrella organizations : the AFL-CIO created in 1955, and the Change to Win Federation which split from the afl-cio in 2005.
Both advocate policies and legislation on behalf of workers in the United States and Canada, and take an active role in politics.
The AFL-CIO is especially concerned with global trade issues.
In 2010, the percentage of workers belonging to a union in the United States ( or total labor union `` density '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in जर्मनी, 27.5 % in Canada, and 70 % in Finland.
Union membership in the private सेक्टर has fallen under 7 % — levels not seen since 1932.
Unions allege that employer-incited opposition has contributed to this decline in membership.
the most prominent unions are among public sector employees such as teachers and police.
Members of unions are disproportionately पुरानी, पुरूष and residents of the Northeast, the Midwest, and California.
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in America after controlling for individual, job, and labor मार्केट विशेषताएँ.
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s, American unions remain a prominent political factor, both through mobilization of their own memberships and through coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around issues such as immigrant rights, trade policy, health care, and living wage campaigns.
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs, unions are currently वकालत नई `` कार्ड जाँच `` संघीय विधान that would require employers to bargain with a union if more than 50 % of workers signed forms, or `` cards, '' stating they wish to be represented by that union.
The current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 days for a federally पर्यवेक्षित secret-ballot कर्मचारी referendum on the subject.
The अर्थशास्त्री जोसेफ stiglitz रै asserted that, `` Strong unions have helped to reduce inequality, whereas weaker unions have made it easier for CEOs, sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape, to increase it. ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in the United States has been associated with a pronounced rise in income and wealth असमानता.
A ईसाई Lacroix fashion boutique
A boutique is a small खरीदारी outlet, especially one that specializes in elite and fashionable items such as clothing and jewelry.
The word is French for `` shop '', via Latin from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The term entered into everyday English use in the late 1960s when, for a brief period, London was the centre of the fashion trade.
Carnaby Street and the Kings Road were the focus of much media attention as घर to the most fashionable boutiques of the era.
Now the East of London has been regenerated and more Boutiques pop up in fashionable areas, such as Tower Bridge Road.
It can also refer to a specialised firm such as a boutique निवेश bank or boutique law firm.
The word is often used to describe a property in the स्वतंत्र खण्ड of the होटल मार्केट ( such as The Rockwell in London ) in order to distinguish themselves from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ).
In such cases the establishments aim to convey the idea that the आपरेशन is elite and highly specialised.
In the strictest sense of the word, boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but more generally speaking, some chains can be referred to as boutiques if they specialize in particular styles.
Recently, the term `` boutique '' रै started being applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or produced in intentionally small numbers at very high prices.
This may be referred to as boutique manufacturing.
For example, before the रिलीज of the वी, a समय पत्रिका आलेख सुझाया कि निन्टेंडो could become a `` boutique video-game company '', producing games for niche audiences, rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony.
In the traditional luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International is considered as the precursor in निर्माण and sale of bespoke watches.
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique manufacturing site, which allows producing small श्रेणी or even unique timepieces.
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and other truly one-of-a-kind items, others simply produce t-shirts, stickers, and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices.
In the early 1990s Selena started manufacturing her own line of women 's clothing.
खोलने दो boutiques labeled as `` Selena Etc. Boutique & Salon '' One located in Corpus Christi and one located in San Antonio, Texas.
One was due to open in Monterrey, Mexico, in 1995 but due to her death it was not opened.
Around 1999 the सैन अंतोनियो location closed and the Corpus Christi location was closed in 2009.
In late 1990s some European retail traders developed the idea of tailoring a shop towards a lifestyle theme, in the form of `` concept stores '', जिससे specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments.
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso como in मिलान, Italy followed by Colette in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin.
Several well-known American जंजीरों ऐसे as शहरी outfitters, D-A-S-H, and The Gap, Australian chain Billabong and, though less common, Lord & Taylor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000.
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a credit संघ headquartered in Vienna, Virginia, chartered and regulated under the authority of the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government.
Navy Federal is the largest natural member ( or retail ) credit union in the world, both in asset size and in membership.
As of September 2012, Navy Federal had over $ 50 billion USD in assets, and over 4 million members.
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13, 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ), known by his stage name Stevie Wonder, is an American singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, a child prodigy who developed into one of the most creative musical figures of the late 20th century.
Blind since shortly after birth, अचरज हस्ताक्षरित with Motown 's Tamla label at the age of eleven, and continues to perform and record for Motown to this day.
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` Superstition ``, `` Sir Duke ``, `` You Are the Sunshine of My Life `` and `` I Just Called to Say I Love You ``.
Well known albums also include Talking Book, Innervisions and Songs in the Key of Life.
He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top ten hits and received twenty-two Grammy Awards, the most ever awarded to a male solo artist.
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for राजनैतिक causes, including his 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther King, Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United States.
In 2009, Wonder was नामित a United Nations Messenger of Peace.
In 2008, Billboard पत्रिका released a सूची of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the US singles chart 's fiftieth anniversary, with Wonder at number five.
By popular vote, Stevie was inducted into The SoulMusic Hall of कीर्ति at soulmusic.com in December 2012.
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '', for mind/soul, and -ωσις `` -osis '', for abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal कंडीशन of the mind, and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving a `` loss of contact with reality ``.
People कष्ट from psychosis are described as psychotic.
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder, during which hallucinations and delusions, gross excitement or stupor and impaired insight may occur.
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can mean anything from relatively normal aberrant अनुभवों through to the जटिल और catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder.
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases, from both external substances and internal physiologic illness, can produce symptoms of मनस्ताप.
This led many professionals to say that psychosis is not specific enough as a diagnostic term.
Despite this, `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( negative signs ) and more commonly to diverse types of hallucinations or delusional beliefs ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas one exhibiting very subtle signs could be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of psychosis, especially those of schizophrenia.
This is thought to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience of पर्यावरणीय stimuli.
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trials of these drugs, however, show either no significant difference between drug and placebo, or a very small effect size, suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system.
People experiencing psychosis may exhibit some personality परिवर्तन and thought disorder.
Depending on its गंभीरता, इस may be accompanied by unusual or bizarre behavior, as well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities.
सामान्य grievous is a fictional character in the Star Wars universe.
A recurring antagonist, he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a political faction of ग्रहीय systems waging war on the Galactic Republic.
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by Count Dooku, he is a ruthless and powerful warrior devoted to जेडी 's विनाश दौरान the Clone Wars.
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi body count would prompt the galaxy to give him the nickname the knightslayer.
Though the notorious जेडी slayer थी the होने in the आकाशगंगा दौरान the क्लोन युद्धों जो था मारे the सबसे जेडी in सिंगल कॉम्बैट, he किया नहीं संकोच to भागो इससे लड़ाइयों he knew he होता खोना.
Statistics play an महत्वपूर्ण role in summarizing baseball performance and evaluating players in the sport.
Since the flow of a बेसबॉल game has natural breaks to it, and normally players act individually rather than performing in clusters, the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics.
Statistics have been kept for professional baseball since the creation of the National League and American League, now part of Major League Baseball.
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major League Baseball, from leagues such as the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players and the Negro Leagues.
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute pea pickers in California, centering on Florence Owens Thompson, age 32, a mother of seven children, in Nipomo, California, March 1936.
USA annual real जीडीपी इससे 1910–60, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The unemployment रेट in the US 1910–1960, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The ग्रेट अवसाद थी a severe worldwide economic depression in the decade preceding World War II.
The timing of the Great Depression varied across nations, but in most countries it started in 1930 and lasted until the late 1930s or middle 1940s.
It was the longest, most widespread, and deepest depression of the 20th century.
In the 21st century, the Great अवसाद is commonly used as an example of how far the world 's economy can decline.
The depression originated in the U.S., after the fall in stock prices that began around September 4, 1929, and became worldwide news with the stock market crash of अक्तूबर 29, 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ).
The Great Depression had विनाशकारी effects in countries rich and poor.
Personal आय, कर आय, profits and prices dropped, while international trade plunged by more than 50 %.
Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25 %, and in some countries rose as high as 33 %.
Cities all around the world were hit hard, especially those dependent on heavy industry.
Construction was virtually halted in many देशों.
Farming and rural areas suffered as crop prices गिरी by approximately 60 %.
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate sources of jobs, areas dependent on primary sector industries such as cash cropping, mining and logging suffered the most.
Some economies प्रारंभ to recover by the mid-1930s.
In many countries, the negative effects of the Great Depression lasted until the end of संसार युद्ध ii.
A असामयिक ventricular संकुचन ( पीवीसी ), भी ज्ञात as a असामयिक ventricular जटिल, ventricular असामयिक संकुचन ( or जटिल or देवालय ) ( vpc ), ventricular असामयिक ताल ( vpb ), or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ), is a अपेक्षाकृत आम इवेंट जहाँ the धड़कन is initiated by purkinje मछली in the ventricles बल्कि than by the sinoatrial नोड, the सामान्य धड़कन initiator.
the विद्युत कार्यक्रम of the दिल detected by the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily विशिष्ट इससे a सामान्य दिल ताल.
A PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped beat `` or felt as palpitations in the chest.
In a normal heartbeat, the ventricles contract after the atria have helped to fill them by contracting ; in this way the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles contract first and before the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with blood, which means that circulation is inefficient.
However, single beat PVC arrhythmias do not usually pose a danger and can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William Gary Busey ( born June 29, 1944 ), better known as Gary Busey, is an American film और stage actor, and artist.
He has appeared in a variety of films, including Lethal Weapon, Point Break, and Under Siege, as well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke, वाकर, टेक्सास रेंजर, Law & Order, and Entourage.
He was nominated लिये an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ), is a बहुराष्ट्रीय सन्धि लिये the purpose of establishing अंतरराष्ट्रीय standards for intellectual property rights enforcement.
The agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods, generic medicines and copyright infringement on the Internet, and would create a new governing body outside existing forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the World बौद्धिक Property Organization, or the United Nations.
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by Australia, Canada, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, and the United States.
in 2012, मैक्सिको, the यूरोपीय Union and 22 countries which are member states of the European Union signed as well.
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement, which would come into force in countries that ratified it after ratification by six countries.
Supporters have वर्णित the agreement as a response to `` the increase in global trade of counterfeit goods and pirated copyright protected works ''.
Trades Unions representing workers in the music, film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based organizations such as the Motion Picture Association of America and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America were active in the treaty 's development.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों say the convention adversely affects fundamental rights including freedom of expression and privacy.
ACTA has also been criticised by Doctors Without Borders for endangering access to medicines in developing countries.
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups, developing countries and the general public from the agreement 's negotiation process and it has been described as policy laundering by critics सहित the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association.
The signature of the EU और अनेक of इसके सदस्य राज्य resulted in the resignation in protest of the European Parliament 's appointed chief investigator, rapporteur Kader Arif, as well as widespread protests across Europe.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, British MEP David Martin, recommended against the treaty, stating : `` The intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European Parliament rejected the agreement in plenary session, with 478 voting विरूद्ध the treaty, 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining.
FAW semi-trailer truck in China
ट्रैक्टर साथ पक्ष डम्प ट्रेलर semi-trailer
A tractor साथ an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer truck with स्लीपर behind the cab.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated vehicle that consists of a towing engine, known as a tractor in the United States and truck in many other places, attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight.
It is also known as a transport in Canada, prime mover in Australia, semi, tractor-trailer, truck and trailer, transfer truck, 18-wheeler, mack ट्रक, बिग रिग in the संयुक्त States, or artic, short for articulated lorry, in Britain and Ireland.
A semi-trailer does not trail completely behind the towing vehicle, but is attached at a point that is just forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit.
This is done so that a fraction of the weight of the trailer is carried by the प्रधान mover.
This arrangement means that both tractor and semi-trailer will have a distinctly different डिज़ाइन than a rigid truck and trailer.
The Pittsburgh Steelers are a पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल team based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the अमरीकी Football Conference ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Founded in, the Steelers are the oldest franchise in the afc.
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl शीर्षक ( छह ), जीती अधिक afc चैंपियनशिप Games ( eight ) and played in ( fifteen ) and hosted more ( eleven ) conference championship games than any other AFC or NFC team.
The Steelers share the record for most Super Bowl appearances with the Dallas Cowboys ( eight ).
The Steelers won their most recent championship, Super Bowl xliii, on फ़रवरी 1, 2009.
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8, 1933, by Art Rooney, taking its original name from the baseball team of the same name, as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time.
The ownership of the Steelers has remained भीतर the Rooney family since its founding.
The current owner is Art 's son, Dan Rooney, who has given much control of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II.
Long one of the NFL 's flagship टीमों, the Steelers enjoy a large, widespread fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation.
The Steelers currently play their home games at Heinz फ़ील्ड on पिट्सबर्ग 's North Side in the North Shore neighborhood, which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers.
Built in 2001, the stadium replaced Three Rivers Stadium which hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons.
Prior to Three Rivers, the Steelers had played their games in Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field.
तीन अलग kinds of wheat and rye flour
Flour is a powder which is made by grinding cereal grains, or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ).
It is the main संघटक of bread, which is a staple food for many cultures, making the availability of adequate supplies of flour a major economic and political issue at various times throughout history.
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in European, North American, Middle Eastern, Indian and North अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों, और is the धमक ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries.
While wheat is the most common base for flour, corn flour has been important in Mesoamerican cuisine since ancient times, and remains a staple throughout the Americas.
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of central Europe, और राइस can also be used in flour, though this is relatively uncommon.
Heart rate is the number of heartbeats per unit of time, typically expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ).
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide changes, such as during physical exercise, sleep, illness, or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system stimulants such as amphetamines increase heart rate.
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the heart rate ( apart from some particularly strange ones with equally strange effects, such as ketamine which can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ).
There हैं अनेक ways in which the heart rate speeds up or slows down.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the brain, many of which are those that are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion and processing of drugs.
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume, one of the physiological ways to deliver more oxygen to an अंग is to बढ़ाएँ दिल rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often.
सामान्य resting दिल दरों दायरा इससे 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is defined as a resting heart rate below 60 bpm.
However, heart rates from 50 to 60 bpm are common among healthy people और do नहीं necessarily require special attention.
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm, though persistent rest rates between 80-100 bpm, mainly if they are present during sleep, may be लक्षण of हाइपरथाइरॉयडिज़्म or रक्ताल्पता ( see below ).
Catherine II 's carved, painted and gilded राजतिलक Coach ( Hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people, usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) and sedan chairs are excluded, since they are wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is especially designed for private passenger use and for comfort or elegance, though some are also used to transport goods.
it may be लाइट, smart और तेज़ or भारी, विशाल और आरामदायक.
Carriages normally have suspension using leaf springs, elliptical springs ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping.
A public passenger vehicle would not प्रायः be पुकारा a carriage – terms for such include stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) कार्ट share महत्वपूर्ण parts of the history of the carriage, as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) chariot.
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 UTC on Sunday, 26 December 2004, with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.
The quake itself is known by the scientific community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake.
The resulting tsunami was given various names, सहित the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, South Asian tsunami, Indonesian tsunami, and the Boxing Day tsunami.
The earthquake was caused by subduction और triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean, killing over 230,000 people in fourteen countries, and inundating coastal communities with waves up to high.
It was one of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history.
Indonesia was the hardest-hit country, followed by Sri लंका, India, and Thailand.
With a magnitude of Mw 9.1–9.3, it is the third largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph.
the भूकंप था the longest अवधि of faulting कभी observed, between 8.3 और 10 मिनट्स.
It caused the entire planet to vibrate as much as और triggered other earthquakes as far away as Alaska.
इसके epicentre was between Simeulue and mainland Indonesia.
The plight of the affected people and countries prompted a worldwide humanitarian जवाब.
in सब, the विश्वव्यापी जातियाँ दान अधिक than $ 14 अरब ( 2004 us $ ) in humanitarian सहायता.
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is थर्मल उर्जा generated and stored in the Earth.
Thermal energy is the उर्जा कि determines the temperature of matter.
the geothermal उर्जा of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय of खनिज ( 80 % ).
the geothermal अनुपात, जिससे is the अंतर in तापमान between the कोर of the ग्रह और इसके सतह, ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल उर्जा in the रूप of ऊष्मा इससे the कोर to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), अर्थ earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding cooler rock.
The high temperature and pressure कारण कुछ चट्टान to melt, creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats rock and water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since paleolithic टाइम्स और for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
विश्वव्यापी, परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal शक्ति is ऑनलाइन in 24 देशों.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating क्षमता is संस्थापित for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, sustainable, and environmentally friendly, but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
हाल technological अग्रिम have dramatically विस्तारित the दायरा और आकार of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर हीटिंग, खोलने a संभावित लिये फैली शोषण.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth, but these emissions are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a result, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity 's energy needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and खोजी for deep resources is very expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology, energy prices, subsidies, और ब्याज rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience, the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy लागत between two and ten cents per kwh.
The term cubic foot is an Imperial and US customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume, used in the United States and the संयुक्त Kingdom.
It is defined as the volume of a cube with sides of one foot ( 0.3048 m ) in लंबाई.
To calculate cubic feet multiply length X width X height.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation :, Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn Ái Quốc, was a Vietnamese communist revolutionary leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ).
He was a key figure in the foundation of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945, as well as the People’s Army of Vietnam ( PAVN ) और the việt cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War.
He led the Việt Minh independence movement इससे 1941 onward, establishing the communist -ruled Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ.
He officially stepped down from power in 1955 due to health problems, but remained a highly visible figurehead and inspiration for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united, communist Vietnam—until his death.
After the war, Saigon, capital of the Republic of वियतनाम, was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City.
All Roads Lead घर is a feature film released on September 26, 2008.
निर्देशित by डेनिस fallon, it stars Peter Boyle, Patton Oswalt, Jason London, Vivien Cardone, Vanessa Branch, Peter Coyote, Stephen Milton, and Allan Kayser.
The movie was फिल्माया in and around Kansas City, Missouri.
The movie made its World Premiere January 27 at the Santa Barbara अंतरराष्ट्रीय Film Festival.
The film has also recently been in several film festivals, and has received bad reviews.
Peter बॉयल died before the movie 's release.
It was the last movie he appeared in.
Sales taxes in the United States are taxes placed on the sale or lease of goods and services in the United States.
While no national general sales tax exists, the federal government levies several national selective बिक्री कर on the sale or lease of particular goods and services.
Furthermore, forty-five states, the District of Columbia, and Guam impose general sales taxes that apply to the sale or lease of most goods and some services, and states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services.
States may also delegate to local governments the authority to impose additional general or selective sales taxes.
Sales tax is calculated by multiplying the purchase price by the applicable tax rate.
Tax rates vary widely by jurisdiction and range from less than 1 % to over 10 %.
बिक्री कर is एकत्रित by the seller at the time of sale.
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who has not paid sales कर on a taxable purchase.
Unlike the मान added tax, a sales tax is imposed only once, at the retail level.
However, in cases where items are sold at retail more than once, such as used cars, the sales tax can be charged on the same item indefinitely.
The definition of retail sales and what goods and services are taxable vary among the states.
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous categories of goods and services that are exempt from sales tax, or taxed at reduced rates.
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or for resale is uniformly exempt from sales tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt food sold in grocery stores, prescription medications, and many agricultural supplies.
Sales taxes, including those imposed by local governments, हैं generally administered at the state level.
States imposing sales tax require retail sellers to collect tax from customers, file returns, and remit the कर to the राज्य.
Procedural नियम vary widely.
विक्रेता generally must collect tax from in-state purchasers unless the purchaser provides an exemption certificate.
Most states allow or require electronic remittance.
A central processing unit ( CPU ), also referred to as a central processor unit, is the hardware within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical, logical, and input/output परिचालन of the system.
The term has been in use in the computer industry at तनिक since the early 1960s.
The form, design, and implementation of CPUs have changed over the course of their history, but their fundamental operation remains much the same.
a कंप्यूटर can have more than one CPU ; this is called multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain multiple cpu on a single chip ; those ICs are called multi-core processors.
Two ठेठ components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ), which performs arithmetic and logical operations, and the control unit ( CU ), which extracts instructions from memory and decodes and executes them, calling on the ALU when necessary.
नहीं all computational systems rely on a central processing unit.
An array processor or वेक्टर प्रोसेसर रै multiple parallel computing elements, with no one unit considered the `` center ''.
In the distributed computing model, problems हैं हल by a distributed interconnected set of processors.
RFID चिप next to a grain of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in consumer products, and implanted in pets, for identification उद्देश्य.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data, for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically stored सूचना.
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via चुम्बकीय fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM फ़ील्ड, और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at सैंकड़ों of meters.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be within line of sight of the reader, and may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked object.
rfid tags are used in many industries.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track its progress through the assembly line.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
पशुधन and pets may have tags injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the possibility of reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns.
Overtime is the amount of time someone works परे normal working hours.
Normal घंटों may be determined in several ways:
by custom ( what is considered healthy or उचित by society ),
by practices of a दिए व्यापार or profession,
by legislation,
by agreement between employers and workers or their प्रतिनिधि.
सबसे राष्ट्र have ओवरटाइम मजदूर कानून designed to dissuade or prevent नियोक्ता इससे forcing उनके कर्मचारी to कार्य excessively long घंटों.
These laws may take into account other considerations than the humanitarian, such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy.
One common approach to regulating overtime is to require employers to pay workers at a higher hourly rate for ओवरटाइम कार्य.
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged to do so by law, particularly if they believe that they face a backward bending supply curve of labour.
Overtime pay rates can cause workers to work longer hours than they होता at a चपटा hourly rate.
Overtime laws, attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly from country to country and between different economic sectors.
कल्पना of कड़ी between पृष्ठों on a विक using a force-directed लेआउट.
force-directed आलेख आरेखण algorithms हैं a क्लास of algorithms लिये आरेखण रेखाचित्र in an aesthetically pleasing रास्ता.
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing edges as possible, by assigning forces among the set of edges and the set of nodes, based on their relative positions, and then using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy.
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem, force-directed algorithms, being physical simulations, usually require no special knowledge about graph theory such as planarity.
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted for महंगाई ) is the amount of goods or services that can be purchased with a unit of currency.
For example, if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s, you would have been able to buy a greater number of items than you would today, indicating that you would have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a कमोडिटी money, like gold or silver, or fiat currency, or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars.
As Adam Smith noted, having money gives one the ability to `` command '' others ' labor, so purchasing power to some extent is power over other people, to the extent that वे हैं willing to व्यापार उनके मजदूर or goods लिये धन or currency.
If one 's monetary income stays the वही, but the price level increases, the purchasing power of that income falls.
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's money income since it may rise faster than the price level.
A higher real income means a higher purchasing power since real income refers to the income समायोजित लिये महंगाई.
For a price index, its value in the base year is usually सामान्यीकृत to a value of 100.
The purchasing power of a unit of currency, say a dollar, in a given year, expressed in dollars of the base year, is 100/P, where P is the price index in that year.
So, by definition the खरीदना power of a dollar decreases as the price level rises.
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount C of money, t सालो into the भविष्य, can be computed with the formula for the present value :
where in this case i is an assumed future annual महंगाई rate.
Education in South Korea is viewed as being crucial for कामयाबी और प्रतियोगिता is consequently very heated and fierce.
A सेंट्रल प्रशासन oversees the प्रक्रम लिये the शिक्षा of children इससे किंडरगार्टन to the तीसरा और फाइनल साल of ऊँची स्कूल.
गणित, विज्ञान, कोरियाई, अंग्रेज़ी, और सोशल अध्ययन हैं generally माना to be the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण subjects.
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised, by the generally academic elitist South Korean populace, as education and therefore many schools lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics.
South Korea was the first country in the world to provide high-speed internet access to all primary, junior, and high स्कूलों.
Although South Korean students often rank highly on अंतरराष्ट्रीय comparative assessments when compared to students of most Western education systems, the South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The South Korean education system is rather notably strict and overly structured as compared to its counterparts in most Western societies.
Also, the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ), which too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in students are criticised as a major social problem.
The My Lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 and 504 unarmed civilians in South Vietnam on March 16, 1968, by United States Army soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment, 11th Brigade of the Americal Division.
Victims included महिलाओं, men, children, and infants.
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later found to be mutilated and many women were allegedly raped prior to the killings.
जबकि 26 U.S. soldiers were initially charged with criminal offenses for their actions at Mỹ Lai, only Second Lieutenant William Calley, a platoon leader in Charlie Company, was convicted.
Found guilty of killing 22 villagers, he was originally given a life sentence, but only served three and a half years under house arrest.
The नरसंहार took place in the hamlets of My Lai and My Khe of Son My village.
the event is also known as the Son My Massacre, especially in the Vietnamese state media.
The U.S. military codeword for the `` Viet Cong stronghold '' was `` pinkville ''.
The incident prompted global outrage when it became public knowledge in 1969.
The massacre also increased domestic opposition to the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War.
Three U.S. servicemen who had आजमाया to halt the massacre and protect the wounded were initially denounced by several U.S. Congressmen as traitors.
They received hate mail and death threats and मिला mutilated animals on their doorsteps.
The three were later widely praised and decorated by the फौज लिये उनके वीर actions.
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks were 19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda, and 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia.
Others were from मिश्र, लेबनान, and the UAE.
The hijackers यहूद व्यवस्थित into four teams, each led by a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' who were trained to help subdue the pilots, passengers, and crew.
The first hijackers to arrive in the संयुक्त राज्य यहूद Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi, who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000.
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots, Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi, and Ziad Jarrah जल्दी in the summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, Hani Hanjour, arrived in San Diego in December 2000.
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the spring and early summer of 2001, just months before the September 11 attacks.
abū al-qāsim muḥammad इब्न ʿabd allāh इब्न ʿabd al-muṭṭalib इब्न hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), थी a धार्मिक, राजनैतिक, और सैन्य नेता इससे मक्का जो एकीकृत अरब into a सिंगल धार्मिक polity अंतर्गत islam.
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to be a messenger and नबी of God.
मुहम्मद is लगभग universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी भेजा by परमेश्वर लिये mankind.
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the arabian नगर of मक्का, he थी orphaned at an early age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib.
He later worked mostly as a व्यापारी, as well as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the आदत of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
तीन सालो बाद इस इवेंट मुहम्मद started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly.
To escape persecution, Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the जनजातियों अंतर्गत the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes, his followers, who by then had grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers out to destroy all of the बाकी pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few महीने after returning to Medina from The Farewell Pilgrimage, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam, and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity.
The revelations ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and परंपराओं ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and other नबियों of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of मुहम्मद in मध्यकालीन christendom और premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest people in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body that specifically deals in longevity research, such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 दिनों.
वो met Vincent van Gogh when she was 12 or 13.
This led to news media attention in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation लिये calment 's आयु, beyond any reasonable question, in the records of her native city, Arles, France.
अधिक प्रमाण of calment 's जीवनकाल रै महरूम उत्पादित than लिये कोई अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the आयु of the संसार 's oldest लोगों.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura, who currently lives in Japan and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 December 2012, किमुरा, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year बूढ़ा koto okubo of जापानी on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest जीना स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa, भी इससे जापानी, born on 5 कूच 1898.
This is a timeline of the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
The Civil Rights movement was a freedom struggle by African अमेरिकी in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality.
The goals of the movement were freedom from discrimination, equal अवसर in employment, education and housing, the right to vote and equal access to public facilities.
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock music that developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s, largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic rock, the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick, massive sound, characterized by highly amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are generally associated with masculinity and machismo.
The first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath attracted large audiences, though they were often derided by critics, a status common throughout the history of the genre.
In the mid-1970s Judas पुजारी helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of its blues influence ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed.
Bands in the New Wave of British Heavy Metal such as Iron Maiden followed in a similar vein.
Before the end of the decade, heavy metal fans became known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam metal became a commercial force with समूह जैसे mötley crüe और Poison.
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme, aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the mainstream with bands such as Metallica, Megadeth, Slayer, and Anthrax, while other styles of the सबसे चरम subgenres of मेटल जैसे मौत metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
Since the mid-1990s, popular styles such as nu metal, which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip हॉप ; and metalcore, which blends extreme metal with hardcore punk, have further expanded the definition of the genre.
The far-right ( also known as the extreme right ) refers to the highest उपाधि of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society, and supports supremacy of certain individuals or groups deemed to be innately superior or preferable who are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is based on what its adherents perceive as innate विशेषताएँ of people that can not be changed.
This stands as a point of difference with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours, such as laziness or decadence, as the primary sources of social inequalities.
The centre right—unlike the far right—claims that people can end their behavioural inferiority through changing their habits and choices.
The original far right, which emerged in France after the French Revolution, refused to accept the French Republic and समर्थित a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy.
The far right is commonly associated with व्यक्तियों or groups who hold extreme nationalist, xenophobic, racist, religious fundamentalist or reactionary views.
the most extreme-right movements have pursued oppression and genocide against groups of people on the basis of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 अप्रैल 1588 – 4 दिसम्बर 1679 ), in some older texts Thomas Hobbs of Malmsbury, was an English philosopher, best known today for his work on political philosophy.
His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for most of Western political philosophy from the परिप्रेक्ष्य of social contract theory.
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state ) ; the view that all legitimate political power must be `` representative '' and based on the consent of the people ; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.
He was one of the founders of modern political philosophy.
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion, obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion, remains influential ; and his account of human nature as self-interested cooperation, and of political communities as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains one of the major topics of political philosophy.
In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a diverse array of अन्य फ़ील्ड, including history, geometry, the physics of gases, theology, ethics, and general philosophy.
emotional प्रज्ञा ( ei ) is the क्षमता to पहचानो, assess, और कंट्रोल the भाव of oneself, of अन्य, और of समूह.
It can be divided into ability EI and trait EI.
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger relationships with traditional intelligence, whereas trait EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality.
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real intelligence and whether it has incremental validity over IQ and the Big Five personality traits.
Heredity is the passing of traits to offspring from its parents or ancestor.
This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its parent कोशिका or सजीव.
through आनुवंशिकता, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause some species to evolve.
The study of heredity in biology is called आनुवंशिकी, जिससे includes the field of epigenetics.
लिये संयुक्त राज्य व्यक्तिगत आय कर, समायोजित सकल आय ( agi ) is कुल सकल आय ऋण विशिष्ट reductions.
Taxable income is adjusted gross income minus allowances for personal exemptions and itemized deductions.
For most individual tax purposes, agi is more relevant than gross income.
Gross income is sales price of goods or property, minus cost of the property sold, plus other income.
It includes wages, interest, dividends, business income, rental income, और all other types of income.
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a business or rental activity and 21 other specific items.
Several deductions ( e.g. medical expenses and miscellaneous itemized deductions ) are limited based on a प्रतिशत of agi.
Certain phase outs, including those of lower tax rates and itemized deductions, are based on levels of AGI.
Many states base state income tax on agi साथ certain deductions.
`` Lazy Eye '' is the third single from Silversun pickups ' डेब्यू एल्बम Carnavas.
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Later With Jools Holland, and Last Call with Carson Daly.
The song is a playable track on Rock Band 2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour.
An alternate version of the song, with a length of 7:27, was played on XMU before the shorter version was played on FM and other XM channels.
This version was featured on their demo CD ( which featured early versions of four tracks ).
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone number ; in the North American Numbering Plan countries ( country code 1 ), it is the पहला तीन अंक of a seven-digit phone number.
In other देशों both the prefix and the number may have different lengths.
It shows which exchange the remaining numbers refer to.
A full telephone number is usually made up of country कोड ( जरूरी लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय काल्स तभी ), area code ( required for calls between telephone areas ), prefix, and subscriber number.
Some places restrict certain prefixes to fax numbers or cell phones only ; in अन्य स्थान such dedicated prefixes are not used.
As telephone technology advanced, the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many places ; 485 in London, UK, was once the GULliver exchange, but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of many number blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
Metformin ( BP, pronounced, ; originally sold as Glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, in particular, in overweight and obese people and those with normal kidney function.
Its use in गर्भकालीन diabetes has been limited by safety concerns.
It is also प्रयुक्त in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, and has been investigated for other diseases where insulin resistance may be an important factor.
Metformin works by suppressing glucose production by the liver.
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug that has been conclusively shown to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes.
It helps reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride स्तर, और is नहीं associated with weight gain.
, metformin is one of only two oral antidiabetics in the World Health Organization Model List of Essential Medicines ( the other being glibenclamide ).
When prescribed appropriately, metformin causes few adverse effects ( the most common is gastrointestinal upset ) and is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a serious concern in overdose and when it is prescribed to people with contraindications, but otherwise, there is no significant risk.
First synthesized and found to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin was forgotten for the next two decades as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs.
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could reduce blood sugar levels in people, and in 1957, French physician Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for diabetes.
It was introduced to the United Kingdom in 1958, Canada in 1972, and the United States in 1995.
Metformin is now believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United States alone, more than 48 million prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its generic formulations.
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore near Keystone, South Dakota, in the United States.
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son, Lincoln Borglum, Mount Rushmore features sculptures of the heads of four United States presidents : George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln.
the entire memorial covers and is above sea level.
the tallest mountain in the region is Harney Peak ( ).
South Dakota historian Doane Robinson is credited with conceiving the idea of carving the likenesses of famous people into the Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region.
Robinson 's initial idea was to sculpt the Needles ; however, Gutzon Borglum rejected the Needles site because of the poor quality of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups.
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location, which also रै the advantage of facing southeast for maximum sun exposure.
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark, Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill Cody but Borglum decided the sculpture should have a more national focus, and chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
After securing federal funding, construction on the memorial began in 1927, and the presidents ' faces were completed between 1934 और 1939.
Upon gutzon borglum 's death in March 1941, his son Lincoln Borglum took over construction.
Although the initial concept called for each president to be depicted from head to waist, lack of funding forced construction to end in late October 1941.
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the memorial in 1933, while it was still under construction, and has managed the memorial to the present day.
It attracts nearly तीन million people annually.
Charvet dress shirt from the 1930s, Norsk folkemuseum, Oslo.
A shirt, dress shirt, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up shirt is a garment with a collar, a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the hem, and sleeves with cuffs.
Shirts are predominantly used by men, since women usually wear blouses.
The front opening is fastened using buttons or studs, and the cuffs close साथ बटन or cuff links.
Shirts are normally made from woven cloth, and are often accompanied by a jacket and tie, for example with a suit or formalwear, लकिन शर्ट are also worn more casually.
In British English, dress shirt means specifically the more formal evening garment worn with black- or white- tie, also discussed below.
Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and detachable छल्लों संलग्न with collar studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in error to apply to all shirts ( with or without buttoned down collars ), being used as a synonym for `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also ज्ञात as secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In North America, it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is celebrated on the पहला Friday in May
धमाकेदार can be:
अक्खड़ blasting
Blast भट्टी
Rock धमाकेदार
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the classical French Baroque style, although he spent most of his working life in Rome.
His work is characterized by clarity, logic, and order, and favors line over color.
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration for ऐसे classically oriented artists as Jacques-Louis David, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne.
he worked in रोम लिये a वृत्त of अग्रणी collectors वहीँ और elsewhere, मगर लिये a छोटी काल जब कार्डिनल रिचलू ordered उसे वापस to फ़्रांस to serve as पहला चित्रकार to the किंग.
Most of his works are history paintings of religious or mythological subjects that very often have a विशाल landscape element.
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1, 1954Stambler, Irwin, and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : The Encyclopedia. - New York : St. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary. - New York : Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music. - New York : Stockton Press - P.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - The Tombstone Tourist : Musicians. - New York : Pocket Books. - p.395. - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks, Jack. - `` Singer Keith Whitley 's Memory Alive Through Songs, Love in Home Town ''. - The Kentucky Post. - September 25, 1991.— '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33 ''. - Lexington Herald-Leader. - May 10, 1989.——Hurst, Jack. - `` Whitley 's Last Days ''. - Chicago Tribune. - May 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley ''. - United Press International. - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ). - May 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as Keith Whitley, was an American country music singer.
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music lasted from 1984 until his death in 1989, but he continues to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters.
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts, including five consecutive Number Ones : `` Do n't Close Your Eyes ``, `` When You Say Nothing at All ``, `` I 'm No Stranger to the Rain ``, `` I Wonder Do You Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ).
Statute of Grand Duchy of Lithuania, written in Polish
A statute is a formal written enactment of a legislative authority that governs a state, city, or काउंटी.
Typically, statutes command or prohibit something, or declare policy.
The word is often used to फर्क विधि बना by विधान लाशें from case law, decided by courts, and regulations issued by government agencies.
Statutes are sometimes referred to as legislation or `` black letter law. ''
As a source of law, statutes are considered primary authority ( as opposed to secondary प्राधिकार ).
Ideally all statutes must be in harmony with the fundamental law of the land ( संवैधानिक ).
This word is used in contradistinction to the common law.
Statutes acquire their force from the time of their passage, however unless otherwise provided.
Statutes are of several kinds ; namely, Public or private.
Declaratory or remedial.
अस्थाई or perpetual.
A temporary statute is one which is limited in its duration at the समय of its enactment.
It continues in force until the time of its limitation रै समाप्त, unless sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is one for the continuance of which there is no limited time, although it may नहीं be expressly declared to be so.
If, however, a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another which is temporary only, the former will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter.
पहले a statute becomes विधि in कुछ देशों, it जरूर be सहमत upon by the उच्चतम कार्यपालिका in the सरकारी, और आखिरकार प्रकाशित as भाग of a कोड.
In many countries, statutes are organized in topical arrangements ( or `` codified '' ) भीतर publications called codes, such as the United States Code.
In many nations statutory law is distinguished from and subordinate to constitutional law.
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate off the common iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis.
They proceed anterior and inferior along the medial border of the psoas major muscles.
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the inguinal स्नायु परिचय एक तीसरा laterally इससे the insertion point of the inguinal ligament on the pubic tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries.
The external iliac artery is usually the artery used to attach the renal artery to the recipient of a गुर्दा प्रत्यारोपण.
Steam is a digital distribution, digital rights प्रबन्धन, multiplayer and communications platform developed by Valve Corporation.
It is used to वितरित games and related media online, from small independent developers to larger software houses ; in October 2012, Valve expanded the service to include non-gaming software.
Steam provides the user with installation and automatic management of तन्त्र आरपार अनेक computers, community features such as friends lists and groups, cloud saving, and in-game voice and chat functionality.
The software provides a freely available application programming interface, Steamworks, that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of Steam 's functions within their software products, including copy protection, networking and matchmaking, in-game achievements and micro-transactions, and support लिये user-created content through Steam Workshop.
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft Windows, the client has expanded to include OS X and लिनक्स संस्करण, और क्लाइंट साथ सीमित functionality on the PlayStation 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices.
In addition to being a central hub for gaming software, Valve has created a version of Steam with altered functionality to be used in schools for educational software, including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 games available through Steam, and 54 million active user accounts.
As of January 2013, Steam has seen over 6.6 लाख concurrent players.
Steam has an estimated 50–70 % share of the digital distribution market for video खेल.
The भाप logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank and rod from the Walschaerts valve gear of a steam locomotive.
Jerry लुईस ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an American comedian, actor, singer, film producer, screenwriter and film director.
he is ज्ञात लिये उसके slapstick ह्यूमर in फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, स्टेज और रेडियो.
He was originally paired up with Dean Martin in 1946, forming the famed comedy team of मार्टिन और लुईस.
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work, they starred in a successful series of comedy films for Paramount तस्वीरें.
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as national chairman for the Muscular Dystrophy संघ ( MDA ).
Lewis has won several awards for lifetime achievements इससे the अमरीकी Comedy Awards, Los Angeles Film Critics Association, and Venice Film Festival, and he has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
In 2005, he received the Governors Award of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Board of Governors, which is the highest Emmy Award presented.
On February 22, 2009, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award.
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany and eventually flows into the North Sea coast in the Netherlands and is the twelfth longest river in Europe, at about, with an average discharge of more than.
The Rhine and the Danube formed most of the northern inland frontier of the Roman Empire and, since those days, the Rhine has been a vital and navigable जलमार्ग carrying trade and goods deep inland.
It has also served as a defensive feature and has been the basis for regional and international borders.
The many castles and prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine testify to its importance as a जलमार्ग.
River traffic could be stopped at these locations, usually for the purpose of collecting tolls, by the state that नियंत्रित that portion of the river.
श्री ( Sinhala )
श्री ( देवनागरी : श्री, iast ; śrī ), भी transliterated as sree or shri or श्री is a शब्द of संस्कृत उत्पत्ति, प्रयुक्त in the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप as विनम्र रूप of पता समतुल्य to the अंग्रेज़ी `` mr. '' in लिखा और बोला भाषा, or as a शीर्षक of veneration लिये deities ( प्रायः अनूदित as `` Holy '' ).
Design of जटिल structures like the International Space Station needs in-depth understanding of Structural Analysis.
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, construction, and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment, including works like roads, bridges, canals, dams, and buildings.
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after military engineering, and it was defined to distinguish non-military engineering from military engineering.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, geophysics, geodesy, control engineering, structural engineering, biomechanics, nanotechnology, transportation engineering, earth science, atmospheric sciences, forensic engineering, municipal or urban engineering, water resources engineering, materials engineering, coastal engineering, surveying, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the पब्लिक सेक्टर from municipal through to national governments, and in the private sector from individual homeowners through to international companies.
कैथरीन Dunham in Tropical Revue
Katherine dunham in Studio
Katherine Dunham in Tropical Review Tropical Review, मार्टिन Beck Theatre
Katherine Dunham wearing dance वेशभूषा
कैथरीन Dunham in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22, 1909 – May 21, 2006 ) was an American dancer, choreographer, author, educator, and social activist.
Dunham had one of the सबसे successful dance careers in American and European theater of the 20th century, and directed her own dance company for many years.
She has been called the `` matriarch और महारानी mother of black dance ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s, Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and Latin America and was widely popular in the United States, where the Washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great ''.
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance कम्पनी, the तभी self-supported American black dance troupe at that time, and over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances.
dunham थी an innovator in african-american आधुनिक नृत्य as खूब as a नेता in the फ़ील्ड of नृत्य मानवशास्त्र, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses, commonly called peat moss due to its व्यापकता in गीला habitats where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
Sphagnum accumulations can store water, since both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside their cells ; plants may hold from 16-26 times as much जल as their dry weight depending on the species.
The empty cells सहायता retain water in drier conditions.
Hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can slowly spread into drier conditions, forming larger peatlands, both उठाया bogs and blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland plants, including sedges and ericaceous shrubs, as well as orchids and carnivorous plants.
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily because of the phenolic यौगिकों अंतःस्थापित in the मॉस 's cell walls.
In addition, bogs, like all wetlands, develop anaerobic soil conditions, which produces slower anaerobic decay rather than aerobic microbial action.
Peat moss can also acidify its surroundings by taking up cations, such as calcium and magnesium, and releasing hydrogen ions.
Under the right शर्तें, peat can accumulate to a depth of many meters.
Different species of Sphagnum have different tolerance limits for flooding and pH, so any one peatland may have a number of different Sphagnum species.
Individual peat moss plants consist of a main stem, with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles usually consisting of two or three spreading branches and two to four hanging branches.
The top of the plant, or capitulum, has compact clusters of young branches.
Along the stem are बिखरे पत्ते of various shapes, named stem leaves ; the shape varies according to species.
The leaves consist of two kinds of cells ; small, green, living cells ( chlorophyllose cells ), and large, clear, structural, dead cells ( hyaline cells ).
The latter have the विशाल water-holding capacity.
The earliest version of the Network Card, issued manually rather than through an APTIS machine.
The first APTIS संस्करण of the Network Card.
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into the 1990s, as stocks had to be प्रयुक्त up despite the introduction of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991.
The introduction of the weekday minimum fare condition in 2002 resulted in a minor change : the red `` R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard.
इस version is still in use as of 2007.
The Network Railcard is a छूट कार्ड introduced in 1986 by British Rail, upon the creation of their Network SouthEast area around London, England.
the कार्ड is intended to प्रोत्साहित अवकाश सफर by रेल by offering छूट लिये वयस्कों और accompanying children on a चौड़ी दायरा of off-peak किराए.
The range of छूट उपलब्धियाँ, and the price of the card, have varied since that time, but the card has always been valid for a year 's unlimited use.
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent, by completing an application form - no photographic identification or other दस्तावेज़ीकरण is needed to buy or use the card.
It is one of a number of concessionary किराया योजनाएं उपलब्धियाँ on the British railway system.
The United Nations ( UN ; French : Organisation des Nations Unies, ONU ) is the world 's largest, foremost, and most prominent international organization.
The stated aims of the United Nations include promoting and facilitating cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights, civil rights, civil liberties, political freedoms, democracy, and the achievement of lasting world peace.
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League of Nations, to stop wars between countries, and to provide a platform for dialogue.
It contains multiple subsidiary संगठन to carry out its missions.
At its founding, the UN had 51 सदस्य राज्य ; as of 2011, there are 193.
From its offices around the world, the UN and its specialized agencies decide on substantive and administrative issues in regular meetings held throughout the year.
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in promoting international economic and social cooperation and development ) ; the सचिवालय ( लिये providing अध्ययन, सूचना, और सुविधाएं needed by the un ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary judicial organ ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ).
Other prominent UN System agencies include the World Health Organization ( WHO ), the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's निधि ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office of Secretary-General which has been held by Ban ki-moon of South Korea since 2007.
The United Nations Headquarters resides in international territory in New York City, with further main offices at Geneva, Nairobi, and Vienna.
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary contributions from its member states, and has six official languages : Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.
South Beach, also nicknamed SoBe, is a neighborhood in the city of Miami Beach, Florida, United States, located due east of Miami city proper between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean.
The area encompasses all of the barrier islands of Miami Beach south of Indian Creek.
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed, starting in the 1910s, thanks to the development efforts of Carl G. फिशर, the Lummus Brothers, and John S. Collins, the latter whose construction of the Collins Bridge provided the first vital land link between mainland Miami and the beaches.
The area has gone through numerous artificial and natural changes over the years, including a booming क्षेत्रीय अर्थव्यवस्था, increased tourism, and the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
As of 2010, about 39,186 residents live in South बीच.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election, held on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon, while the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी मनोनीत John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in which all fifty of the वर्तमान United States participated.
A number of factors explain why the election थी so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent Republican, and he had the advantage of 17 million more पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight, and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states बजाय of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded campaign संगठन to win the nomination, secure endorsements, and, with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to थाम the South and used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president, a phenomenon that has been repeated once, by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
A poster for a c. 1884 American उत्पादन of Macbeth, starring Thomas W. Keene.
Depicted, counter clockwise from top-left, are : Macbeth and Banquo meet the witches ; just बाद the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth.
Macbeth is a play written by William Shakespeare.
It is माना एक of उसके darkest and most powerful tragedies.
Set in Scotland, the play dramatizes the corroding psychological और राजनैतिक प्रभाव produced when its protagonist, the Scottish lord Macbeth, chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power.
He commits regicide to become king and then furthers his moral descent with a reign of murderous आतंक to stay in power, eventually plunging the country into civil war.
In the end, he loses everything that gives meaning and purpose to his life before losing his life itself.
The play is believed to have been written between 1603 and 1607, and is सबसे commonly दिनाँक 1606.
The earliest account of a performance of what was probably Shakespeare 's play is April 1611, when Simon Forman recorded seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre.
It was first published in the Folio of 1623, possibly from a prompt book.
It was most likely written during the reign of James I, who had been James VI of Scotland before he succeeded to the English सिंहासन in 1603.
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company, and of all the plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s reign, Macbeth सबसे clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship with the sovereign.
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy, and tells the story of a brave Scottish general named Macbeth who receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland.
Consumed by ambition and spurred to action by his बीवी, Macbeth murders King Duncan and takes the throne for himself.
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia, and he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to कमिट अधिक और अधिक हत्याएं to protect himself from enmity and suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and Lady Macbeth into realms of arrogance, madness, and death.
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of Scotland, Macduff, and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ), a history of England, Scotland and Ireland familiar to Shakespeare and his contemporaries, although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the बैकस्टेज संसार of theatre, some believe that the play is cursed, and will not mention its title aloud, referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play ``.
Over the course of many centuries, the play has attracted some of the most renowned actors to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.
It has been adapted to film, television, opera, novels, comic books, and other media.
The Milton Hershey School is a private परोपकारी ( pre-k through 12 ) boarding school in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School, the institution was founded and funded by chocolate industrialist Milton Snavely Hershey and his wife, Catherine Sweeney Hershey.
The school was originally established for impoverished, healthy, Caucasian, male orphans, while today it serves students of various backgrounds.
The Milton Hershey School Trust, which funds the school, owns controlling interest in The Hershey Company and owns the Hershey Entertainment and Resorts Company ( HERCO ) which oversees many of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark.
With over six billion dollars in assets, the Milton Hershey School is one of the wealthiest स्कूलों in the world.
The स्कूल is overseen by a Board of Managers.
The school currently serves 1,818 students, and plans to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
A member of CORE : Coalition for Residential Education, it is the largest residential education program in the US.
Epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free and खोलें e-book standard
Electronic article, articles in scholarly journals or magazines that can be accessed via electronic transmission
the नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम ( सीएसए ) थी enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक ड्रग गाली रोकथाम और कंट्रोल Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The विधान निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be शामिल in प्रत्येक.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
Second-language acquisition or second-language सीखना is the process by which people learn a second language.
second-language अधिग्रहण ( प्रायः abbreviated to sla ) भी refers to the वैज्ञानिक अनुशासन devoted to अध्ययन कि प्रक्रम.
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a person 's first भाषा ; हालांकि the अवधारणा is named second-language acquisition, it can also incorporate the learning of third, fourth, or subsequent languages.
Second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it करता not refer to practices in language teaching.
The academic discipline of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of लागू linguistics.
It is broad-based and relatively new.
As well as the various branches of linguistics, second-language acquisition is also closely related to psychology, संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान, और शिक्षा.
To separate the academic discipline इससे the सीखना प्रक्रम itself, the terms second-language acquisition research, second-language studies, and second-language acquisition studies are also used.
sla शोध began as an interdisciplinary फ़ील्ड, और क्युकी of इस it is मुश्किल to पहचानो a precise starting तिथि.
However, it does appear to have developed a great deal since the mid-1960s.
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize the subconscious nature of the learning process, but in recent years learning and अधिग्रहण have become largely synonymous.
Second-language acquisition can incorporate heritage language learning, but it does not usually incorporate bilingualism.
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of learning a language, not the process itself, and see the term as referring to native-like fluency.
Writers in fields such as education and psychology, however, often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism.
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language ; rather, the learning of second languages and the learning of foreign languages involve the same fundamental processes in different situations..
There has been much debate about exactly how language is learned, and अनेक मुद्दे हैं स्टिल unresolved.
There are many theories of second-language acquisition, but none are accepted as a पूरा स्पष्टीकरण by all SLA researchers.
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field of second-language acquisition, this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future.
Forbes list of billionaires is an annual ranking of the world 's wealthiest people, compiled and published by Forbes, an American national business पत्रिका.
The total net worth of each individual on the list is estimated, in United States dollars, based on उनके assets and accounting for debt.
The list तभी represents प्रत्येक व्यक्ति 's valuation on a सिंगल दिन, due to रोज़ fluctuations among एक्सचेंज दरों और भण्डार valuations.
The United States Secret Service is a U.S. federal law enforcement agency that is part of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
The sworn members are divided among the Special Agents and the Uniformed प्रभाग.
Until March 1, 2003, the Service was part of the United States Department of the Treasury.
The U.S. Secret Service has two distinct areas of responsibility:
वित्तीय अपराधों, covering missions such as prevention and investigation of counterfeiting of U.S. currency and U.S. treasury securities, and investigation of major fraud.
Protection, which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families, such as the President, past presidents, वाइस राष्ट्रपतियों, अध्यक्षीय candidates, visiting heads of state, and foreign embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ), etc. )
The Secret Service 's initial responsibility was to investigate counterfeiting of U.S. currency, which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War.
The agency then evolved into the United States ' first domestic intelligence and counterintelligence agency.
Many of the एजेंसी 's मिशन were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives ( ATF ), Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ), and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` Me and Bobby McGee '' is a song written by Kris kristofferson and Fred Foster, originally performed by Roger Miller.
Others performed the song later, including Kristofferson himself, and Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after her death, making the song the second posthumous number-one single in U.S. chart history after `` ( Sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd President of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932, as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं Here Again `` as his campaign theme, FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद और activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his पैकिंग the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, except for the regulation of Wall Street by the प्रतिभूति और Exchange Commission, which still exists.
साथ साथ अनेक छोटी कार्यक्रम, प्रमुख surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम, जिससे थी निर्मित in 1933, और सोशल सुरक्षा, जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese invasion of China and the आक्रामकता of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would supply munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional approval, provided lend-lease सहायता to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` date which will live in infamy ``.
He पर्यवेक्षित the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the संसार 's पहला अणु बमबारी.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve years of his presidency, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता कि निर्मित the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions, big city machines, white ethnics, African Americans and rural white Southerners.
He also influenced the later creation of the United Nations and Bretton वुड्स.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents, along साथ Abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a little left of center. ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, Mara, and MS-13 ) is a transnational criminal gang that originated in Los Angeles and has spread to other parts of the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America.
The majority of the gang is ethnically composed of Central Americans and active in urban and suburban areas.
In the U.S., the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas of Fairfax County, Virginia, Montgomery County, Maryland, and Prince George 's County, Maryland ; Long Island, New York ; the Boston, Massachusetts area ; Charlotte, North Carolina ; and Houston, Texas.
There is also a presence of MS-13 in टोरंटो, Ontario, Canada.
Members of MS distinguish themselves by टैटू covering the देह and also often the face, as well as the use of their own sign language.
They are notorious for their use of हिंसा और a subcultural moral code that predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions.
This cruelty of the distinguished members of the `` Maras '' or `` Mareros '' अर्जित उन्हें a पाथ to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the United States border.
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who have initiated wide-scale raids against known and suspected gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the country.
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on the Fox संजाल in the संयुक्त राज्य on September 13, 2005.
the दिखाएँ is आधारित on forensic मानवशास्त्र और forensic पुरातत्व, साथ प्रत्येक एपीसोड focusing on an एफबीआई मामला संचिका concerning the रहस्य पीछे इंसान remains brought by एफबीआई खास एजेंट seeley बूथ ( दाउद boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist dr. temperance `` हड्डियों '' ब्रेनन ( एमिली deschanel ).
The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin, T. J. Thyne, Eric Millegan, Tamara Taylor, Jonathan Adams, and John Francis Daley.
Created by Hart Hanson, the series is very loosely based on the जीवन और कृतियाँ of उपन्यासकार and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs, who also produces the show.
Its title character, Temperance Brennan, is named बाद the protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel series.
Conversely, Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based around a fictional ( in the Bones universe ) forensic anthropologist named Kathy Reichs.
Bones is a joint production by Josephson Entertainment, Far Field Productions and 20th Century Fox Television.
the श्रेणी has completed airing its eighth season and has been renewed for a ninth season.
Super Bowl XXV was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion New York Giants to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season.
The Giants defeated the Bills by the score of 20–19, winning their second ever Super Bowl.
It is the only Super Bowl decided by one point.
The game was held at Tampa Stadium in Tampa, Florida, on January 27, 1991, during the height of the Gulf War.
It was thus played under much patriotic fervor.
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` by Whitney ह्यूस्टन दौरान the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super Bowl appearance after finishing the regular season with a 13-3 record, and leading the league in total points scored with 428.
In advancing to their second Super Bowl, the Giants also posted a 13-3 regular season record, but with a ball-control offense and a defense that allowed a league low 211 points.
The game is best remembered for Bills placekicker Scott Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which went wide right of the uprights, leading to a Giants विजय, and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills.
The Giants set a Super कटोरी record holding possession of the ball for 40 minutes and 33 seconds.
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, and made a 75-yard touchdown drive that consumed a Super Bowl रिकार्ड 9:29 बंद the clock.
Giants running back Ottis Anderson, who carried the ball 21 times for 102 yards and one touchdown, was named Super Bowl MVP.
He was the first awardee to receive the newly named `` Pete Rozelle Trophy '' ( named for the former commissioner ).
Anderson also recorded one reception for सात yards.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an african-american मुस्लिम मंत्री and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans.
detractors accused him of preaching racism, black supremacy, and violence.
He रै been called one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he was यंग, और at least one of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, his mother was placed in a mental hospital, and he was placed in a series of foster homes.
In 1946, at age 20, he गई to prison for breaking and entering.
in थाना, मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952, he जल्दी रोज़ to become एक of इसके नेताओ.
लिये a दर्जन सालो, मैल्कम x थी the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह, लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of islam सिर इलियास मुहम्मद led उसे to छोड़ the स्वदेश in कूच 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, he returned to the United States, where he founded Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam, he was assassinated by three members of the group.
मैल्कम X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time.
As a प्रवक्ता लिये the स्वदेश of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated विरह of ब्लैक और श्वेत अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट to the सिविल अधिकारों गति 's जोर on संयोजन.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it, `` I did many things as a [ Black ] मुस्लिम कि i 'm sorry लिये now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work साथ सिविल अधिकारों leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
The third season of 90210, an American टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, premiered on Monday September 13, 2010.
The CW officially renewed the show for a third season on February 16, 2010.
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule, they announced their decision to move 90210 to Monday nights at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to Gossip लड़की.
It premiered on September 13, 2010 and was met with generally positive reviews from critics.
The season picks up at the समाप्त of summer and focuses on the students senior year of high school.
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame, a new relationship between Silver and Navid and a confused Teddy who decides to reveal to his family and friends he is gay.
It also deals with the aftermath of Naomi Clark 's assault.
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes, Tristan Wilds, AnnaLynne McCord, Ryan Eggold, Jessica Stroup, Michael Steger, Jessica Lowndes, Matt lanter, गिलियन zinser, ट्रेवर Donovan and Lori Loughlin.
Rebecca Sinclair continued her role as executive producer लिये the ऋतु.
The season premiered to 1.96 million दर्शक और a 0.9 rating in the adults 18–49 demographic.
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness '', hit season highs in all key demos with 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
it थी also the most watched episode in over a year with 2.2 million viewers tuning in.
The season finale aired on May 16, 2011.
The season averaged 1.75 million live viewers and a 0.9 adults 18–49 दरजा.
It was released on DVD in the United States on August 30, 2011.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories and dependencies, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and, in some of her realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in London and educated privately at घर.
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, इससे जिससे समय she was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom she has four children : Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.
उसके राजतिलक सेवा took प्लेस in 1953 और थी the पहला to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings शामिल a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major संवैधानिक परिवर्तन in her realms, such as devolution in the United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of her grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in उत्तरी आयरलैंड, the Falklands War, wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press आलोचना of the royal परिवार and republican sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
The 2010 United States Senate election in Florida took प्लेस on नवम्बर 2, 2010 साथ with other elections to the United States Senate in other states as well as all elections to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections.
Republican Marco Rubio, former Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives, defeated independent Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek in a three-way race.
एक पद सीनेटर mel मार्टिनेज थी निर्वाचित in a बहुत बंद रेस विरूद्ध डेमोक्रेट बेट्टी अरंडी in 2004 साथ 49 % of the vote.
Martinez announced on December 2, 2008 that he would not seek re-election to the Senate, and would resign prior to the end of his term.
In August 2009, राज्यपाल Charlie Crist announced that he would appoint his former Chief of Staff, George LeMieux, a Republican, to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez.
Governor Crist publicly announced he was running for the seat in mid-2009.
At the time he received many Republican endorsements, such as the National Republican senatorial कमेटी, Martinez, and the 2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain.
His support of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives, and candidate Marco Rubio surged.
In April 2010 Crist announced he would drop out of the Republican प्राथमिक और चलाएं as an independent.
The National Republican Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement of Crist and demanded a refund of its campaign funds कि it provided for the Crist campaign.
Congressman Kendrick Meek was the first Democrat to घोषित उसके intention to run.
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the Libertarian Party on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history.
उपग्रह view of Doha
Doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the state of Qatar.
Located on the coast of the Persian गल्फ,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008, and is also one of the municipalities of क़तर.
Doha is Qatar 's largest city, with over 60 % of the nation 's population residing in Doha or its surrounding suburbs, and is also the economic centre of the country.
Doha also serves as the seat of government of Qatar, which is ruled by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani.
दोहा is home to the Education City, an area devoted to research and education.
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level बैठक of the Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations.
The city of Doha held the 2006 एशियाई Games, which was the largest Asian Games ever held.
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and most of the games at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup.
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 और होगा मेजबान a large number of the venues for the 2022 FIFA World Cup.
The World पेट्रोलियम Council held the 20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011.
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ), above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ), between the eyes ( ethmoid sinuses ), and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ).
The sinuses are named for the फेशियल bones in which they are located.
Lean manufacturing, lean enterprise, or lean production, often simply, `` Lean, '' is a production practice that considers the expenditure of resources for any goal other than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful, and thus a target for elimination.
Working from the perspective of the customer who consumes a product or service, `` value '' is defined as कोई कार्रवाई or प्रक्रम that a customer would be willing to pay for.
Essentially, lean is केन्द्रित on preserving value with less work.
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System ( TPS ) ( hence the पद toyotism is also prevalent ) and identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s.
TPS is renowned for its focus on reduction of the original Toyota seven wastes to improve overall customer value, but there are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved.
The steady growth of Toyota, from a small company to the संसार 's largest automaker, has focused attention on how it has achieved this success.
icarly logo
iCarly is an अमरीकी sitcom that airs on Nickelodeon, which premiered on September 8, 2007.
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far such as `` iDo '', `` iHire an Idiot '', `` iPity the Nevel '', `` iDate Sam & Freddie '', etc. as specials, despite their being regular episodes.
Every episode title begins with a निम्नतर case i which represents the internet, as in `` iCarly ''.
The show was nominated for an Emmy award for Outstanding Children 's Program in 2009.
The series starring मिरांडा Cosgrove as Carly Shay, a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star.
The series ended on November 23, 2012 with the one-hour special episode `` igoodbye ''.
A total of 7 seasons and 109 episodes were broadcast.
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 million viewers, with the special episode `` iSaved Your Life '' premiered in January 2010.
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy best friend Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) अधिनियम मजेदार at a school talent show audition, tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without telling them.
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter, the online audience clamors for more and the iCarly webcast is born.
While grappling with typical issues of किशोरावस्था, कार्ली, sam, और फ्रेडी ढूँढें आउट कि वे have also become online celebrities as their show – which features talent contests, recipes, problem-solving, and random dancing – garners international accolades.
Carly lives in Seattle, Washington with her 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the show in a makeshift third-floor studio मचान in their apartment.
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned, but their father, Steven Shay ( David Chisum ), is a U.S. Air Force officer temporarily stationed on a submarine, and is often mentioned but is only seen in person during the series finale episode, `` iGoodbye ''.
westlife were an Irish boy band which formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012.
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and प्रबंधित by लुई Walsh, the group 's final line-up consisted of Nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily and Shane Filan.
Brian McFadden was a सदस्य from 1998 until his departure in 2004.
westlife बेची over 50 million records worldwide, a total that included studio albums, singles, video releases, and compilation albums.
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in UK history ), tying with Cliff Richard and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley.
वे हासिल a कुल of 26 शीर्ष टेन singles over उनके 14-year करियर.
By 2010, Westlife was listed in the Guinness World Records, as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century.
They also won The Record of the Year ( the only music award based on public votes in the UK ) a record-breaking चार टाइम्स and in 2012, the Official Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history.
Despite their European and Asian success, Westlife never managed to break into the U.S. market, achieving only one hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It Again ``.
In October 2011, Westlife announced their इरादे to विभाजित in 2012, following their Greatest Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest Hits album.
The boyband 's final concerts were held on 22 and 23 June 2012 at Croke Park Stadium in Dublin.
The first farewell concert, offering 85,000 tickets, sold आउट in a record-breaking 5 minutes and the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide.
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally असंतृप्त hydrocarbons, which include retinol, retinal, retinoic acid and several provitamin A carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the most important.
Vitamin A has multiple functions, it is important for विकास और development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule, that is necessary for both low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision.
Vitamin A also functions in a very different role as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic acid, which is an important hormone-like growth factor लिये epithelial और other cells.
In foods of animal origin, the major form of vitamin A is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, which is converted to retinol ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine.
The retinol form functions as a storage form of the विटामिन, and can be converted to and from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal.
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ), a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized from vitamin A, has only partial vitamin A activity, and does not function in the retina लिये the विज़ुअल साईकिल.
Retinoic acid is used for growth and सेल्यूलर differentiation.
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid chain is attached, पुकारा a retinyl group.
Both संरचनात्मक सुविधाएँ हैं अनिवार्य लिये विटामिन कार्यकलाप.
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as two connected retinyl groups, which are used in the body to contribute to vitamin A levels.
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also have a single retinyl group, which give them some vitamin activity.
None of the other carotenes have vitamin activity.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and has vitamin activity in humans.
Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in foods :
Retinol, the form of vitamin a अवशोषित when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance.
Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the विटामिन is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially produced and administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ), but no other carotenoids, function as provitamin A in herbivores and omnivore पशु, जिससे possess the एंजाइम ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, and pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and can not convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for these species ).
Selena Marie Gomez ( born July 22, 1992 ) is an American singer and actress.
She made her debut as a child actress in बार्नी & Friends.
In 2007, Gomez came to prominence as a starring cast member in the television series Wizards of Waverly Place.
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year, and became the संस्थापक and lead singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene.
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ), a साल Without Rain ( 2010 ), and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and have spawned Platinum-certified singles `` Naturally ``, `` Who Says ``, and `` Love You like a Love Song ``.
बाद the रिलीज of टेलीविज़न films और उनके accompanying soundtracks, गोमेज़ बना उसके नाट्य फिल्मी डेब्यू in ramona और beezus in 2010 और स्ट्रक्चर in मोंटे कार्लो in 2011.
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place and the hiatus of Selena Gomez & the Scene in 2012, she focused on her film career, serving as a voice actress in Hotel Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year.
Her डेब्यू सोलो एल्बम is tentatively अनुसूचित to be released in गर्मियाँ 2013, और is preceded by इसके सीसे सिंगल `` आइये & मिलेंगी it ``.
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry, Gomez is involved in philanthropic activities through charity work and various social and environmental causes.
Tracie monique स्पेंसर ( born जुलाई 12, 1976 ) is an American R & B and pop singer-songwriter, actress, and model.
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California and the seat of government of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the northern portion of California 's expansive Central Valley.
With an estimated 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area, San Francisco Bay Area, and the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
sacramento थी cited by समय magazine as America 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter, Sr., his son John Sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's Fort, जिससे was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento was a major distribution point, a commercial and agricultural center, and a terminus for wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, Sacramento, more commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State, is the largest local university.
it is एक of the twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों system.
drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर, sacramento.
विश्वविद्यालयों of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In addition, the University of California, Davis is located in nearby Davis, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned शोध hospital, is located in the city of Sacramento.
Memorial Day is a United States federal holiday which occurs every year on the final Monday of May.
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving in the United States Armed Forces.
Formerly known as Decoration Day, it originated after the American Civil War to commemorate the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the सिविल युद्ध.
By the 20th century Memorial Day had been extended to honor all Americans who have died in all wars.
It typically marks the start of the summer vacation season, while Labor Day marks इसके समाप्त.
Many people विज़िट cemeteries and memorials, particularly to honor those who have died in military service.
Many volunteers place an American flag on each grave in national cemeteries.
By the early 20th century, मेमोरियल दिन थी an अवसर लिये more general expressions of memory, as people visited the graves of their deceased relatives in church cemeteries, whether they had served in the military or not.
It also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to shopping, family gatherings, fireworks, trips to the beach, और नेशनल मीडिया events.
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries are held on a Sunday in लेट वसन्त or early summer in some rural areas of the American South, notably in the mountains.
In cases involving a family graveyard where remote ancestors as well as those who were deceased more recently are buried, this may take on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people सफर सैंकड़ों of miles.
लोगों एकत्रित on the designated दिन और put पुष्प on क़ब्रों और नवीनीकृत सम्पर्क साथ kinfolk और अन्य.
There often is a religious service and a `` dinner on the ground, '' the traditional term for a potluck meal in which people used to spread the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass.
it is believed कि इस अभ्यास began पहले the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और यूँ may प्रतिबिंबित the रियल उत्पत्ति of the `` मेमोरियल दिन '' idea.
Memorial Day is not to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving, while Veterans Day celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans, living or dead.
Mt. Zion Church state history marker near फिलाडेल्फिया, Mississippi.
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) was a campaign in the United States launched in June 1964 to attempt to पंजीकरण as अनेक African American voters as possible in Mississippi, which had historically excluded most blacks from voting.
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools, Freedom Houses, and जातियाँ centers in small towns throughout Mississippi to aid the local black population.
The project was organized by the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ), a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the four major civil rights organizations ( SNCC, CORE, NAACP and SCLC ).
Most of the impetus, नेतृत्व, और financing for the Summer Project came from the SNCC.
Robert Parris Moses, SNCC field secretary and co-director of cofo, directed the summer project.
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music genre that originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep South `` of the United States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads.
The blues form, ubiquitous in jazz, rhythm and blues, and rock and roll is characterized by specific chord progressions, of which the twelve-bar blues chord progression is the सबसे common.
The blue notes that, for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened or gradually bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in relation to the pitch of the major scale, are also an important भाग of the sound.
The blues genre is based on the blues form but possesses other characteristics such as specific lyrics, bass lines, and instruments.
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from country to urban blues that were more or less popular दौरान अलग periods of the 20th century.
Best known are the डेल्टा, piedmont, Jump, and Chicago blues styles.
World War II marked the transition from acoustic to electric blues and the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience, especially white listeners.
in the 1960s और 1970s, a hybrid form called blues-rock evolved.
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` ब्लू शैतानों '', meaning melancholy and sadness ; an early use of the term in this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ).
Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be older, it has been attested to since 1912, when Hart Wand 's `` Dallas Blues `` became the first copyrighted blues composition.
In lyrics the phrase is often used to describe a depressed mood.
A quarter dollar, commonly shortened to quarter, is a coin worth 1⁄4 of a संयुक्त States dollar or 25 cents.
the quarter has been produced since 1796.
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ which is more common in other parts of the world, originated with the practice of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars into आठ कील तराशा खण्ड ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ).
At one time `` two bits ``, i.e. two wedges, each wedge an eighth, thus a quarter of the Spanish real, was a common nickname for a quarter.
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout Mexico and around the world in other cultures.
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family and friends to pray for and remember friends and family members who have died.
It is particularly celebrated in Mexico, where it is a national holiday, and all banks are closed.
The celebration takes place on November 1 and 2, in connection with the Catholic holidays of All Saints ' Day and All Souls ' Day.
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the deceased using sugar skulls, marigolds, and the favorite foods and beverages of the departed and visiting graves with these as gifts.
वे also leave possessions of the deceased.
Scholars trace the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to स्वदेशी observances डेटिंग back hundreds of years and to an Aztec festival dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
The holiday has spread throughout the world : In ब्राज़ील, dia de finados is a public holiday that many Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches.
In Spain, there are festivals and parades, and, at the end of the day, people gather at cemeteries and pray for their मुर्दे loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe, and similarly themed celebrations appear in many Asian and African cultures.
ANITA mk VIII.
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the world 's first all- इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डेस्कटॉप calculators.
designed और निर्मित by the घंटी पंच co.
in Britain, and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer division, they used vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in their logic circuits and nixie tubes for their numerical displays.
वे यहूद the पहला of a श्रेणी of डेस्कटॉप और hand-held इलेक्ट्रॉनिक calculators कि the कम्पनी थी to develop और बेचें अंतर्गत the अनीता नाम into the mid-1970s.
George Washington ( –, 1799 ) was the first President of the United States ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
He presided over the convention that drafted the Constitution, which replaced the Articles of Confederation and established the position of President.
Washington was elected President as the unanimous choice of the 69 electors in 1788, and he served two terms in office.
He oversaw the creation of a strong, well-financed national सरकारी कि कायम neutrality in the wars raging in Europe, suppressed rebellion, and won acceptance among Americans of all types.
His leadership style established many forms and rituals of government that have been used since, such as using a कैबिनेट system and delivering an inaugural address.
Further, the peaceful transition from his presidency to the presidency of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st century.
Washington was hailed as `` father of his country `` even during his आजीवन.
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of Colonial Virginia ; his wealthy planter family owned tobacco plantations और स्लेव.
After both his father and older brother died when he was young, Washington became personally and professionally attached to the powerful William Fairfax, who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier.
Washington quickly became a senior officer in the colonial forces during the first stages of the French and Indian War.
Chosen by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the Continental Army in the American Revolution, Washington managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776, but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City.
After crossing the Delaware River in the मुर्दे of शीत, he defeated the British in two battles, retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause.
Because of his strategy, Revolutionary forces captured two major British armies at Saratoga in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781.
Historians laud Washington for his selection and supervision of his generals, encouragement of morale and ability to hold together the army, coordination with the state governors and state militia units, relations with Congress and attention to supplies, logistics, and training.
In battle, however, Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by British generals with larger armies.
बाद विजय था महरूम finalized in 1783, Washington resigned as Commander-in-chief rather than seize power, proving his opposition to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism.
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation, in 1787 Washington presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution.
Elected unanimously as the first President of the संयुक्त States in 1789, he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the nation.
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to pay off all state and national debt, to implement an effective tax system and to create a national bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ).
Washington proclaimed the United States neutral in the wars raging in Europe after 1793.
He avoided war with Great Britain और गारंटी a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the Jay Treaty in 1795, despite intense opposition from the Jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the Federalist Party, he supported its programs.
Washington 's Farewell Address was an influential primer on republican virtue and a warning against partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign wars.
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and लौटे to his home, Mount Vernon, and his domestic life where he managed a variety of enterprises.
He freed सब उसके स्लेव by उसके फाइनल होगा.
Washington had a vision of a ग्रेट and powerful nation that would be built on republican lines using federal power.
He sought to use the national government to preserve liberty, improve infrastructure, open the western lands, promote कॉमर्स, मिला a permanent capital, reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism.
at उसके मौत, वॉशिंगटन थी eulogized as `` पहला in युद्ध, पहला in सलाम, और पहला in the दिल of उसके देशवासियों '' by हेनरी Lee.
The Federalists made him the symbol of उनके party but for many years, the Jeffersonians continued to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument.
As the leader of the first successful revolution against a colonial empire in world history, Washington became an international icon for liberation and nationalism, especially in France और लैटिन अमेरिका.
Fiscal Year 2012 u.S. Federal Spending – Cash or Budget Basis.
Fiscal साल 2012 U.S. Federal Receipts.
The Budget of the United States Government often begins as the President 's proposal to the U.S. Congress which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1.
However, Congress is the body required by law to pass a budget annually and to submit the बजट passed by दोनो घरों to the President for signature.
Congressional decisions are governed by rules and legislation regarding the federal budget process.
Budget committees set spending limits for the House and Senate committees and for Appropriations subcommittees, which then approve individual appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs.
if कॉंग्रेस fails to pass an सालाना बजट ( as रै महरूम the मामला चूंकि 2009 ), a श्रेणी of appropriations बिल्स जरूर be passed as `` रोकें गैप '' measures.
After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the President, who may sign it into law, or may veto it ( as he would a budget when passed by the Congress ).
A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress, which can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority in each chamber.
Congress may also combine all or कुछ appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
In addition, the president may request and the Congress may pass supplemental appropriations bills or emergency supplemental appropriations bills.
Several government agencies provide budget data and विश्लेषण.
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ), Congressional Budget Office, the Office of Management and Budget ( omb ) and the U.S. Treasury Department.
These agencies have reported that the federal government is facing a series of important financing challenges.
In the short-run, tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy choices, while expenditures have विस्तारित for wars, unemployment insurance and other safety net spending.
In the long-run, expenditures सम्बन्धित to healthcare कार्यक्रम ऐसे as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures.
New Guinea ( also, Tok Pisin : Niugini, Dutch : Nieuw Guinea, and ; historically : Papua ) is the world 's second largest island, after Greenland, covering a जमीन क्षेत्रफल of 786,000 km2.
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean, it lies geographically to the east of the Malay Archipelago, with which it is sometimes शामिल as भाग of a वृहद Indo-Australian Archipelago.
Geologically it is a part of the same tectonic plate as Australia.
When world sea levels were low, the two shared shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 metres below sea level ), combining with lands now inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul, also known as Greater Australia.
The two landmasses became separated when the area now ज्ञात as the Torres Strait flooded after the end of the last glacial period.
anthropologically, नई Guinea is considered part of Melanesia.
नीतियां, the पश्चिमी half of the island comprises two Indonesian provinces : Papua and West Papua.
The eastern half forms the mainland of the country of Papua New Guinea.
The island has a population of about 7.5 million, साथ a very low population density of only 8 inh/km2.
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier, flatter, and less fertile southern counterpart, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, by इसके much higher rainfall and its active volcanic geology, with its highest point, Puncak Jaya, reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal fauna, with marsupials, including wallabies and possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
Other than bats and some two dozen indigenous rodent genera, वहीँ हैं no pre-human indigenous placental mammals.
Pigs, several अतिरिक्त प्रजाति of rats, and the ancestor of the New Guinea Singing Dog were introduced with human colonization.
The human presence on the island dates back at least 40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out of Africa.
Research indicates that the highlands were an early and independent center of agriculture, with प्रमाण of irrigation going back at least 10,000 years.
Because of the time depth of its inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape, an unusually high number of languages are spoken on the island, with some 1,000 languages ( a figure higher than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects.
Most are classified as Papuan languages, a generally accepted geographical term which a minority of authors hold to be a genetic one.
A क्रमांक of Austronesian languages are spoken on the coast and on offshore islands.
In the 16th सदी स्पेनी explorers खोजा the द्वीप और पुकारा it नुएवा गिनी.
In recent history western New गिनी was included in the Dutch East Indies colony.
The Germans annexed the northern coast of the पूर्वी half of the island as German New Guinea in their pre–World War I effort to establish themselves as a colonial power, whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain.
Following the Treaty of Versailles, the German portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already governing the British अर्जी, named the Territory of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate.
The eastern half of the island थी granted independence from Australia as Papua New Guinea in 1975.
The western half gained independence from the Dutch in 1961, but became part of इंडोनेशिया soon afterwards in controversial circumstances.
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode of the sitcom Seinfeld, and name of a fictional New York street gang.
Their sign is crossing the hands, with one हाथ with all the fingers 'up ' and spread out.
The other hand has all but the अंगूठा and pointer finger up, for a total of eight ( 8 ).
The gang is नामित लिये the 8th अध्यक्ष of the United States, Martin Van Buren ( who was the first president from New York ).
This was the 14th एपीसोड for the 8th season.
It aired on फ़रवरी 6, 1997.
bevo sign
bevo was a non-alcoholic malt beverage, or near beer, brewed in the United States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century.
bevo enjoyed इसके महानतम कामयाबी दौरान the समय of निषेध, जब बियर, वाइन और आसुत liquors, यहूद बना illegal लिये तेरह सालो.
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic beverages were prohibited in 1916 by the United States armed forces.
Production rose greatly with नेशनल prohibition in 1919, and Bevo was by far the most popular of the many `` cereal beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time.
At the peak of its popularity in the early 1920s, more than five million cases of Bevo were sold annually.
Renard with a mug of bevo, चित्रित in terra cotta on the interior walls of the Bevo building, St. Louis
लेबल्स on the बोतलों billed it as `` bevo the पेय ''.
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` beverage '' and the स्लावी भाषा word for beer `` pivo '', and was pronounced `` Bee-vo ''.
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` Renard the Fox `` ( आधारित on the protagonist of a medieval French folk-tale ), and promotional mugs with this character were manufactured.
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied cars in its St. Louis shops पुकारा the `` Bevo Boats '' which were used for promotion.
Seven are believed to have been built on Pierce-Arrow 8-cylinder chassis while one surviving उदाहरण was based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8.
Billboard advertising Bevo in Trenton, New Jersey, 1917
A contemporary advertisement read `` Cooling and invigorating, Bevo the पेय.
Order by the case from your पंसारी, druggist, or dealer. ''
The पेपर लेबल on the back of the bottle read `` The All-Year-Round Soft Drink.
Appetizing - Healthful - पौष्टिक - Refreshing.
Milk or जल may contain bacteria.
bevo never does. ''
Bevo became part of the popular संस्कृति of the समय, and is mentioned in various popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to secondary slang uses of the word ; for example, in American सैन्य कठबोली a young and inexperienced officer was called a `` Bevo ''.
The University of Texas named its mascot `` Bevo '', a name which has stuck to this day.
इरविंग Berlin included a paean to the drink, `` You Ca n't Stay Up on Bevo '', in his 1917 army revue, Yip Yip Yaphank.
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg beer and liquor as well as `` homebrew ``, cut into Bevo 's marketshare.
With sales flattening to 100,000 cases by 1929, Anheuser-Busch stopped production.
The Bevo Mill, St. लुई, in 2008
The Bevo building, with the Renard character prominently displayed at the corners, still operates as a bottling सुविधा at उनके main brewery in St. Louis, Missouri.
The landmark Bevo मिल, constructed by August Anheuser Busch, Sr. in 1917.
It थी closed in 2009, but it reopened in October 2009 under new owners.
Bevo is also mentioned in the short स्टोरी `` The Killers `` by Ernest Hemingway ; as well as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis.
Mylanta is an over the काउंटर दवा प्रयुक्त लिये the उपचार of एसिड reflux, heartburn, और gastroesophageal reflux बीमारी ( भी ज्ञात as गर्ड ).
Foremilk और hindmilk samples of human breast milk
A glass of pasteurized गाय milk
Milk is a white liquid produced by the mammary glands of mammals.
It is the प्राथमिक source of nutrition for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food.
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the mother 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the risk of many diseases in the baby.
It भी contains अनेक other nutrients.
As an agricultural product, milk is extracted from mammals and used as food for humans.
Worldwide, dairy farms produced about 730 million tonnes of मिल्क in 2011.
India is the world 's largest producer and consumer of milk, yet neither exports nor imports milk.
New Zealand, the European Union 's 27 सदस्य राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, and the United States are the world 's largest exporters of milk and milk products.
China and Russia are the world 's largest importers of milk and मिल्क products.
Throughout the world, there हैं अधिक than 6 billion consumers of milk and milk products.
Over 750 million people live within दुग्ध farming households.
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition and food सुरक्षा विशेषकर in developing countries.
Improvements in livestock and dairy technology offer significant promise in reducing poverty and malnutrition in the world.
Motorcycle speedway, usually referred to as speedway, is a motorcycle sport involving four and sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit.
स्पीडवे मोटरसाइकिल उपयोग तभी एक गियर and have no brakes and racing takes place on a flat oval track usually consisting of dirt or loosely packed shale.
Competitors use this surface to slide their machines sideways, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the straight sections of the track the मोटरसाइकिल reach speeds of up.
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a type of speedway racing being practised in the USA before the First World War and in Australia in the late 1910s and early 1920s.
There are now both domestic and international competitions in a number of countries including the Speedway World Cup whilst the highest overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion.
स्पीडवे is popular in central and northern Europe and to a lesser extent in Australia and North America.
A variant of track racing, speedway is administered internationally by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ).
घरेलू स्पीडवे events are regulated by FIM affiliated national motor sport federations.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार for intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate.
in इंसानो, the सबसे important related compounds of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3.
cholecalciferol ( विटामिन D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) जब सूर्य एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin, it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in उनके आहार. )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called vitamins, in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid बीमारी due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the diet, and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight, no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference intakes लिये vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the blood, regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, such as the proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence for other health प्रभाव of विटामिन D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
the बेहतरीन प्रमाण of लाभ is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in मृत्यु in बुजुर्ग महिलाओं.
The Duramax is a General Motors diesel engine family for light- and medium duty trucks, designed by Isuzu.
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by DMAX, a joint venture between GM and Isuzu in Moraine, Ohio.
इस इंजन थी initially संस्थापित in 2001 मॉडल साल चेवी और जीएमसी ट्रक और रै महरूम an विकल्प चूंकि तब in pickups, वैन, और medium-duty ट्रक.
In 2006, उत्पादन at Moraine was reportedly limited to approximately 200,000 engines per year.
On May 9, 2007, DMAX announced the production of the 1,000,000th Duramax V-8 diesel at its Moraine facility.
duramax lml
balto.
is also a परंपरागत written abbreviation for Baltimore, Maryland.
Statue of Balto in Central Park ( New York City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14, 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome, in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported from Anchorage, Alaska, to Nenana, Alaska, by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease.
The run is commemorated by the annual Iditarod Trail sled Dog Race.
Balto was named after the Sami एक्सप्लोरर Samuel Balto.
balto died at the आयु of 14.
Professor Stephen Hawking, known for being a theoretical physicist, has appeared in many works of लोकप्रिय culture.
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level लक्ज़री car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in जुलाई 1976 as the डैटसन 810, an upscale six-cylinder version of the Bluebird, and was spun into its own line in 1981, having been made continuously since then.
The `` उच्चिष्ट '' नाम थी लागू धीरे, शुरूआत in 1981.
Most pre-2004 Maximas were निर्मित in oppama, जापानी, जबतक the current North American Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna, Tennessee.
The `` उच्चिष्ट '' has also been applied to Cefiros and Laurels in various markets.
propolis as hive sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that honey bees collect from tree buds, sap flows, or अन्य botanical sources.
It is used as a sealant for unwanted open spaces in the hive.
Propolis is used for small gaps ( approximately or less ), while larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax.
Its color varies depending on its botanical source, the most common being dark brown.
propolis is स्टिकी at और ऊपर रूम तापमान,.
at निम्नतर temperatures, it becomes मुश्किल और बहुत भंगुर.
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26, 1948 ) is an American singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, best known as the frontman and lead singer of the Boston -based rock band Aerosmith, in जिससे he भी plays the harmonica, and occasional piano and percussion.
He is known as the `` Demon of Screamin ' '' due to his high screams and his wide vocal range.
He is भी known for his on-stage acrobatics.
During his high-energy performances, he usually dresses in bright, colorful outfits with his trademark स्कार्फ hanging from his microphone stand.
In the 1970s, Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith, which released such milestone hard rock albums as Toys in the Attic and Rocks.
In the late 1970s and जल्दी 1980s, टायलर था a heavy drug and alcohol addiction, and the band 's popularity waned.
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently maintained sobriety for over 20 years, but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s, for which he successfully received treatment in 2009.
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and early 1990s with the albums Permanent Vacation, Pump, and Get a Grip, Tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon.
As a result, he has since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest appearances on other artists ' music, film and TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ), authoring a bestselling किताब, और solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ).
However, he has continued to record म्यूज़िक और perform with Aerosmith, after more than 43 years in the band.
The band 's latest album, Music इससे another Dimension !
, was released on November 6, 2012.
Tyler is included among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest Singers.
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit parader 's Top 100 Metal Vocalists of All Time.
In 2001 he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame with Aerosmith, and he was the presenter when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be recipients of the ASCAP Founders Award and will also be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
The liver produces urea in the urea cycle as a waste product of the digestion of प्रोटीन.
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of urea नाइट्रोजन प्रति 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood.
Individual laboratories may have different सन्दर्भ ranges, and this is because the procedure may vary.
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a former American football coach and college and professional फ़ुटबॉल player who was the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996.
His 67 wins and 71 losses are each the most for a head coach in team history.
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ), also known as the Jewish people, are a nation and an ethnoreligious group, originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient Near East.
The Jewish ethnicity, nationality, and religion are strongly interrelated, as Judaism is the traditional faith of the Jewish nation.
Converts to Judaism, whose status as Jews within the Jewish ethnos is बराबर to those born into it, have been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia.
In Jewish tradition, Jewish ancestry is traced to the Biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE.
The modern State of Israel was established as a Jewish nation-state, और defines itself as such in its Basic Laws.
Its Law of Return grants the right of citizenship to any Jew who requests it.
Israel is the only country जहाँ यहूदियों हैं a majority of the population.
Jews also enjoyed political स्वायत्तता twice before in ancient history.
The first of these periods lasted from 1350 to 586 BCE, and encompassed the periods of the Judges, the United Monarchy, and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah, ending with the destruction of the First Temple.
The second was the period of the hasmonean किंगडम spanning from 140 to 37 BCE.
Since the destruction of the First टेम्पल, सबसे यहूदियों have lived in diaspora.
A minority in every country in which they live ( except Israel ), they have frequently experienced persecution throughout history, resulting in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries.
The world यहूदी population reached a peak of 15 million prior to the Second World War, but six million Jews were killed in the Holocaust.
Since then the population has risen again and, was estimated at 13.4 million by the North American Jewish Data Bank, or less than 0.2 % of the total world population ( roughly one in every 514 people ).
According to this report, about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ), and 39.3 % in the United States ( 5.3 million ), with most of the remainder living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ).
These numbers include all those who consider themselves Jews, whether or not they are affiliated with a Jewish organization.
The total world Jewish जनसांख्यिकी, however, is difficult to measure.
In addition to issues with census methodology, वहीँ हैं halakhic disputes regarding who is a Jew and secular, political, and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure considerably.
Corpus christi procession.
Oil on canvas by Carl Emil doepler.
कॉर्पस domini redirects here.
For other uses see Corpus Domini ( बहुविकल्पी )
The Feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin for Body of Christ ), also known as Corpus Domini, is a Latin Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the परंपरा और विश्वास in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist.
It emphasizes the joy of the संस्था of the eucharist, जिससे was observed on Holy Thursday in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday.
In the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of The Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ.
It is also celebrated in some Anglican, Lutheran, and Old कैथोलिक Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence.
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday or, `` जहाँ the solemnity of the सबसे Holy Body and Blood of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation, it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day ''.
At the end of Holy Mass, there is often a procession of the Blessed Sacrament, generally displayed in a monstrance.
The बारात is followed by Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each year in Rome, जहाँ it begins at the archbasilica of St. John Lateran and makes its way to the Basilica of Saint Mary Major, where it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood, the levels of which rise in response to inflammation ( i.e. C-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of dead or dying cells ( and some types of bacteria ) in order to activate the complement system via the C1Q complex.
CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to factors released by macrophages and fat cells ( adipocytes ).
It is a member of the pentraxin family of proteins.
It is not related to C-peptide or protein C.
C-reactive protein was the first pattern recognition receptor ( PRR ) to be पहचाना.
The start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas is typically dated to 1492, when a Spanish expedition headed by Christopher Columbus sailed for India to open व्यापार but inadvertently discovered the Americas.
यूरोपीय conquest, large-scale खोजी और colonization जल्द followed.
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied with many internal wars and was slowly recovering from the many deaths that the bubonic plague caused, the rapid expansion at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
The first रिझाने occurred along the Caribbean coasts on the islands of Hispaniola, Puerto Rico and Cuba, and after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America.
In 1497, sailing from the north on निमित्त of इंग्लैण्ड, जॉन cabot landed on the North American coast, and a year later, Columbus 's third voyage reached the South American coast.
France founded colonies in much of eastern North America, on a number of Caribbean islands, and in South America.
पुर्तगाल colonized Brazil.
Eventually, the entire Western Hemisphere came under the control of European governments, leading to profound changes to इसके लैंडस्केप, जनसांख्यिकी, and plant and animal life.
In the 19th century अलोन over 50 million people left Europe for the Americas.
The post-1492 era is known as the period of the Columbian Exchange.
Keith Richards ( born 18 दिसम्बर 1943 ) is an English musician, singer-songwriter and founder member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones.
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards had created `` rock 's greatest single body of riffs '', ranking him 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists.
Fourteen songs Richards लिखा साथ the रोलिंग Stones ' lead vocalist Mick Jagger are listed among Rolling Stone magazine 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time ``.
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding his addiction to and eventual abstinence from heroin.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen group and is found in mammals, reptiles, birds, and other vertebrates.
In mammals, testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the ovaries of females, although small amounts हैं भी स्रावित by the adrenal glands.
It is the principal male sex हार्मोन और an anabolic steroid.
in मेन, टेस्टोस्टेरोन plays a कुंजी भूमिका in the विकास of पुरूष reproductive ऊतकों ऐसे as the testis और प्रोस्टेट as खूब as promoting द्वितीयक यौन विशेषताएँ ऐसे as increased मांसपेशी, अस्थि द्रव्यमान, और the विकास of देह hair.
In addition, testosterone is essential for health and well-being as well as the prevention of osteoporosis.
On average, in adult human males, the प्लाज्मा विशेषज्ञता of टेस्टोस्टेरोन is about 7–8 times as great as the concentration in adult human females ' plasma, but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men.
Females also are more संवेदनशील to the hormone.
Testosterone is observed in most vertebrates.
Fish make a slightly different form called 11-ketotestosterone.
Its बंटवारा in insects is ecdysone.
These ubiquitous steroids suggest that sex hormones have an ancient evolutionary history.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used जब `` प्राकृतिक '' but relatively homogeneous groupings are evident in a statistical population.
It is often used in विपणन research.
In this technique, the total जनसांख्यिकी is विभाजित into these groups ( or clusters ) and a simple random sample of the groups is selected.
Then the required information is collected from a simple random नमूना of the elements within each selected group.
This may be done for every element in these groups or a subsample of elements may be selected within each of these groups.
A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the total number of interviews and costs given the desired accuracy.
Assuming a fixed sample size, the technique gives more accurate results when most of the variation in the population is within the groups, not between them.
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County, North Carolina, United States, and is a suburb of the nearby cities of Greensboro and High Point.
The population was 3,382 at the 2010 census.
नताली पोर्टमैन ( born Natalie Hershlag ; ; June 9, 1981 ) is an actress and model with dual American and Israeli citizenship.
Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action film, but mainstream success came when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, she enrolled at Harvard University to study psychology while still working as an अभिनेत्री.
She समाप्त her bachelor 's degree in 2003.
In 2001, पोर्टमैन opened in New York City 's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull.
In 2005, Portman received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer.
She won a Constellation Award for Best Female Performance and a Saturn Award for बेहतरीन Actress for her starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ).
She played अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in the historical dramas Goya 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and The Other Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ).
In May 2008, she served as the youngest member of the 61st Annual Cannes Film Festival jury.
Portman 's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th Venice अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स competition in 2008.
Portman directed a segment of the collective film New York, I Love You.
In 2011, Portman won the Academy Award, the Golden Globe Award, the BAFTA Award, the Screen Actors Guild Award, and the Independent Spirit Award for her lead प्रदर्शन as नीना sayers in ब्लैक Swan.
Copper is a chemical element with the symbol Cu ( from ) and atomic number 29.
It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity.
Pure copper is soft and malleable ; a freshly exposed surface has a reddish-orange color.
It is used as a conductor of heat and electricity, a भवन सामग्री, और a constituent of various metal alloys.
The metal and its alloys have been used for हज़ारों of years.
In the Roman era, copper was principally mined on Cyprus, hence the origin of the name of the metal as сyprium ( metal of Cyprus ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts, which often impart blue or green colors to minerals such as azurite and turquoise and have been widely प्रयुक्त historically as pigments.
Architectural structures built with copper corrode to give green verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative art prominently features copper, both by itself and as भाग of pigments.
Copper is essential to all living organisms as a trace dietary खनिज because it is a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin, which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates.
The main areas where copper is found in vertebrates are liver, muscle and bone.
In sufficient concentration, copper compounds are जहरीला to higher organisms and are used as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and wood preservatives.
The major professional sports leagues, or simply major leagues, in the United States and Canada are the highest professional competitions of team sports in the दो देशों.
Although individual sports such as golf, tennis, and auto racing are also very popular, the term is usually limited to team sports.
The term `` प्रमुख लीग '' was first used in 1921 in reference to Major League Baseball ( MLB ), the top level of professional American baseball.
Today, the major northern North America professional team sports leagues are Major League Baseball ( MLB ), the National Basketball संघ ( एनबीए ), the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ), and the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Other notable leagues include Major League Soccer ( MLS ), the Canadian Football League ( CFL ), the Arena Football League, Major League Lacrosse, the नेशनल lacrosse लीग और the महिलाओं 's National Basketball Association.
The NFL, MLB, NBA, और एनएचएल हैं commonly referred to as the Big Four.
Each of these is the richest professional club competition in its sport worldwide.
The best players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the world, because the leagues enjoy a significant place in popular culture in the US and Canada.
The एनएफएल रै 32 teams, and the others have 30 each.
The vast majority of major league teams are concentrated in the सबसे populous metropolitan areas of the United States.
बेसबॉल, फ़ुटबॉल, हॉकी, and soccer have had professional leagues for over 100 years ; early leagues such as the National Association, Ohio League, and National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB, NFL and NHL respectively.
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894, but leagues suffered greatly from lack of sustainability and seldom lasted more than a decade.
Soccer 's greatest successes were in the form of the American Soccer League ( 1921-1933 ), the original North American Soccer League ( 1968-1984 ), the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) और, फिलहाल, प्रमुख League Soccer ( 1996-present ).
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA evolved from the National Basketball League and its splinter group the Basketball Association of America, taking on its current form in 1949.
Every प्रमुख league averages 15,000 fans in attendance per game or higher as of 2011.
मध्याह्न Altitude is an astronomical navigation method of calculating an observer 's latitude.
Earned value management ( EVM ), or Earned value project/performance management ( EVPM ) is a project management technique for measuring प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन और प्रगति in an objective manner.
Because EVM has the क्षमता to combine measurements of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
and cost,
in a single integrated system, Earned Value Management is able to provide accurate forecasts of project performance problems, which is an important contribution for project management.
Early EVM research दिखाया कि the क्षेत्रों of नियोजन और कंट्रोल हैं significantly impacted by इसके उपयोग ; और similarly, using the methodology improves दोनो पैमाना परिभाषा as खूब as the विश्लेषण of overall प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन.
More recent research studies have shown that the principles of EVM are positive predictors of project success.
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond government contracting, in which sector its importance continues to rise ( e.g., recent new DFAR rules ), in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes.
Colorful spring गार्डन flowers
Spring is one of the four conventional temperate seasons, following winter and preceding summer.
There are various technical definitions of spring, but local usage of the term varies according to local climate, cultures and customs.
When it is spring in the northern hemisphere, it will be autumn in the southern hemisphere.
At the spring equinox, days are close to 12 hours long with day length increasing as the season progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, and also to ideas of rebirth, rejuvenation, renewal, resurrection, और regrowth, with festivals such as Carnival, Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time.
Jamestown was a settlement in the उपनिवेश of Virginia, the first permanent English settlement in the Americas.
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14, 1607 ( O.S., May 24, 1607 N.S. ), it followed several earlier failed attempts, including the Lost Colony of Roanoke.
Jamestown served as the capital of the colony for 83 सालो, from 1616 until 1699.
The settlement was located within the territory of a political entity known as Tsenacommacah, the state of the Powhatan Confederacy, with around 14,000 native inhabitants, and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe.
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing, feasting and tobacco ceremonies, and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists, who were not agriculturally inclined, although relations with the newcomers also soured fairly early on, leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years.
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding, the Virginia Company brought पॉलिश और डच colonists to help improve the settlement.
In 1619, the first documented africans यहूद brought to Jamestown, though the modern conception of slavery in the future United States did not begin in Virginia until 1660.
When the colony was subdivided into the असली आठ shires of Virginia in 1634, the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire.
The London Company 's second settlement, Bermuda, claims to be the site of the oldest town in the English New World, as St. George 's, Bermuda was officially established ( as New London ) in 1612, whereas James Fort, in Virginia, was not to be converted into James towne until 1619, and further did not survive into the present day.
In 1699, the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg, after which Jamestown ceased to exist as a settlement, existing today only as an archaeological site.
Today, Jamestown is one of three locations comprising the Historic त्रिभुज of Colonial Virginia, along with Williamsburg and Yorktown, with two primary heritage sites.
Historic Jamestowne, the archaeological site on Jamestown Island, is a cooperative effort by Jamestown National Historic Site ( part of Colonial National Historical Park ), and Preservation Virginia.
The Jamestown Settlement, a living history interpretive site, is operated by the Jamestown Yorktown Foundation in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia.
James Christopher Frey ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी writer.
His books A Million Little Pieces ( 2003 ) and My Friend Leonard ( 2005 ), as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ), were bestsellers.
He was the subject of a scandal when investigators discovered that prison time and the extent of certain चोटों यहूद exaggerated in A Million Little Pieces, a purportedly autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction.
Deere & Company, most commonly known by its name John Deere, is an American corporation based in moline, Illinois, and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world.
In 2012, it was listed as 97th in the Fortune 500 America 's ranking and 190th in the Fortune 500 Global ranking.
Deere and Company agricultural products, sold under the John Deere name, include tractors, combine हार्वेस्टर, कपास हार्वेस्टर, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and UTVs.
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment, as well as a प्रदायक of diesel engines and drivetrains ( axles, transmissions, gearboxes ) used in heavy equipment.
Additionally, John Deere manufactures equipment used in lawn, grounds, and turf care, such as walk-behind lawn mowers, zero-turn lawn mowers, lawn tractors, and snowthrowers.
To support the core businesses, John Deere also provides financial services and अन्य related activities.
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping deer as a logo, a word play pun on `` nothing runs like a deer ''.
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` Nothing Runs Like a deere '' लिये a marketing campaign to sell snowmobiles.
The company 's products are also identifiable by its distinctive shade of green paint, usually augmented by yellow trim.
The संयुक्त States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first u.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse.
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills.
The अन्य is बेंजामिन Franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was नहीं born in the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; जार्ज meade, स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In जोड, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter. )
All $ 10 bills issued today are Federal Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 bill in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of all us banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are delivered by Federal आरक्षित Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper करेंसी in परिसंचरण in जिससे the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
Andy Samuel Griffith ( June 1, 1926 – July 3, 2012 ) was an American actor, television producer, Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer, and writer.
He was a Tony Award nominee for two roles, and gained prominence in the starring role in director Elia Kazan 's film A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before he became better known for उसके television roles, playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock.
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin, ( née Raines ; born July 20, 1964 ) is an Australian -based, American -born naturalist, author, the widow of Australian naturalist Steve इरविन and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia.
वो co-starred साथ उसके husband on the मगरमच्छ शिकारी, उनके unconventional टेलीविज़न प्रकृति वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी साथ साथ इसके spin-off श्रेणी, क्रोक फाइलें और the मगरमच्छ शिकारी डायरीज़.
She has lived in ऑस्ट्रेलिया since 1992, when she married Steve Irwin.
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the Copernican system, from the Harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the Earth and planets revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the center of the Solar System.
The word comes from the Greek ( helios `` sun '' and kentron `` center '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, which placed the Earth at the center.
The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos, but Aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted little attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it.
लुसियो russo, however, argues कि इस is a भ्रामक छाप resulting इससे the घाटा of वैज्ञानिक works of the hellenistic Era.
Using indirect evidence he argues that a heliocentric view was expounded in Hipparchus 's कार्य on gravity.
It was not until the 16th century that a fully predictive mathematical model of a heliocentric प्रणाली थी प्रस्तुत, by the पुनर्जागरण mathematician, astronomer, and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland, leading to the Copernican Revolution.
In the following century, योहानेस कॅप्लर elaborated upon and expanded this model to include elliptical orbits, and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of William Herschel, Friedrich Bessel, and others, astronomers realized that the sun was not the center of the universe and by the 1920s Edwin Hubble था दिखाया कि it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions.
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar ; March 30, 1979 ) is an American singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
She is the daughter of Indian sitar player Ravi शंकर और Sue Jones.
She is also anoushka Shankar 's half-sister.
In 2002, she launched her solo music career with the release of the commercially successful and critically acclaimed album Come Away with Me, a fusion of country music and pop with तत्व of जैज़ जिससे was certified diamond album, selling over 26 million copies.
the रिकार्ड अर्जित जोन्स पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, सहित the एल्बम of the साल, रिकार्ड of the साल, और बेहतरीन नई कलाकार.
Her subsequent studio albums, Feels Like Home, released in 2004, Not Too Late, released in 2007, the same year she made her film debut in My Blueberry Nights, and her 2009 release The Fall all gained Platinum status, selling over a million copies and were generally well received by critics.
Jones ' fifth studio album, Little Broken दिल, थी released on April 27, 2012.
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards and was 60th on Billboard magazine 's artists of the 2000–2009 decade chart.
Throughout her career, Jones has won numerous awards and has sold more than 50 million albums worldwide.
Billboard named her the top jazz artist of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be confused with आयाम of a physical quantity.
For other उपयोग, see Dimension ( disambiguation ).
From left to right, the square, the cube, and the tesseract.
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional lines, the cube by 2-dimensional areas, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
A projection of the घन is given since it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
The same applies to the tesseract, जिससे additionally can only be shown as a projection even in three-dimensional space.
A diagram showing the first चार spatial dimensions.
In physics and mathematics, the dimension of a space or object is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify any point within it.
Thus a line has a dimension of one because only one coordinate is needed to बताएँ a point on it ( for example, the point at 5 on a number line ).
A surface such as a प्लेन or the सतह of a बेलन or गोला रै a आयाम of दो क्युकी दो निर्देशांक हैं needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( लिये उदाहरण, to locate a पाइंट on the सतह of a गोला तुम need दोनो इसके अक्षांश और इसके देशांतर ).
The inside of a cube, a बेलन or a गोला is three-dimensional because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces.
In physical terms, dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ), as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle and field conceptions, interact according to relative properties of mass —and are fundamentally mathematical in description.
These, or other axes, may be referenced to uniquely पहचानो a point or structure in its attitude and relationship to other objects and occurrences.
Physical theories that incorporate time, such as general relativity, are said to work in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( defined as a Minkowski space ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' including quantum field and string theories.
The state-space of quantum mechanics is an infinite-dimensional function space.
The concept of dimension is not restricted to physical वस्तुएँ.
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences लिये अनेक कारण, अक्सर as configuration spaces such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian mechanics ; these are abstract spaces, independent of the physical space we live in.
Fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 निवासियों in San Bernardino County, California.
Founded in 1913, it remained essentially rural until World War II, when उद्योगों Henry J. Kaiser built a large steel mill in the area.
it is अभी a क्षेत्रीय हब of the trucking उद्योग, साथ अंतरराज्यीय 10 और राज्य रूट 210 transecting the नगर इससे ईस्ट to वेस्ट, और अंतरराज्यीय 15 गुजर diagonally through इसके northwestern quadrant.
It is home to the largest of the San Bernardino County system libraries, a renovated ऐतिहासिक theater, a municipal park, and the Auto Club Speedway on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill.
Fontana also होस्ट the Fontana Days Half Marathon and 5K run.
This race is the fastest half-marathon कोर्स in the world.
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana 's population was 200,762 in 2012, making it the second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state.
Cowboys Stadium is a stadium with a retractable roof in Arlington, Texas.
It serves as the home of the National Football League 's Dallas Cowboys.
It replaced the partially covered टेक्सास Stadium, which opened in 1971, and served as the Cowboys ' home through the 2008 season.
It was completed on May 27, 2009.
The स्टेडियम seats 85,000, making it the third largest stadium in the NFL by seating capacity.
the maximum capacity of the stadium, including standing room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are behind seats in each end zone and on a series of six elevated platforms connected by stairways.
it रै the संसार 's largest column-free आंतरिक और the चौथी largest ऊँची परिभाषा वीडियो स्क्रीन, जिससे hangs इससे 20 यार्ड लकीर to 20 यार्ड लकीर.
The facility can also be used for a variety of other activities outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) such as concerts, basketball games, boxing matches, college football and high school football contests, soccer matches, and motocross races.
Canadian historians until the 1980s tended to focus on economic history, including labour history.
In part this is because Canada has था दूर कम political or military conflicts than other societies.
This was especially true in the first half of the twentieth century when economic history was overwhelmingly dominant.
अनेक of the सबसे prominent English Canadian historians from this period were economic historians, such as Harold Innis, Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the traditions that developed in Europe and the United States, but frameworks that worked well elsewhere प्रायः failed in Canada.
The heavily मार्क्सवादी बहकावे आर्थिक इतिहास कि dominates यूरोपीय रै छोटी प्रासंगिकता to सबसे of कनाडाई इतिहास.
A focus on class, urban areas, and industry fails to address Canada 's rural and resource आधारित अर्थव्यवस्था.
similarly, the monetarist स्कूल कि is प्रबल in the संयुक्त राज्य भी रै महरूम मुश्किल to ट्रांसफ़र उत्तर of the किनारा.
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on economic भूगोल, और लिये अनेक सालो the dominant school of thought has been the staples thesis.
This school of thought bases the study of the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था on the पढ़ाई of natural resources.
This approach has since also become used outside of Canada in Australia and in many developing nations.
पहले the आगमन of Europeans, the First Nations of what would become Canada had a large and vibrant trade network.
Furs, tools, decorative items, and other goods were often transported thousands of kilometres, mostly by कैनो throughout the अनेक rivers and lakes of the region.
The early European history of the Canadian economy is usually studied through the staples thesis which argues the Canadian economy developed through the exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to यूरोपीय.
Carbon-14, 14C, or radiocarbon, is a radioactive isotope of carbon with a nucleus containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its presence in organic materials is the basis of the radiocarbon dating method pioneered by Willard Libby and colleagues ( 1949 ) to date archaeological, geological and hydrogeological samples.
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940, by Martin Kamen and Sam Ruben at the University of California Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley, although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934.
वहीँ हैं तीन naturally occurring isotopes of कार्बन on धरती : 99 % of the कार्बन is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, और carbon-14 occurs in ट्रेस amounts, i.e., बनाना up परिचय 1 भाग प्रति खरब ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years.
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta decay.
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on धरती is लौकिक ray action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere, and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide.
However, open-air नाभिकीय testing between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool.
The different isotopes of carbon do not differ appreciably in their chemical properties.
This is used in chemical and biological research, in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to replace nonradioactive carbon, in order to trace chemical and biochemical reactions involving carbon atoms from any given organic compound.
Lightning is a highly visible form of उर्जा ट्रांसफ़र
बिजली हमलों हैं विद्युत discharges on a विशाल स्केल between the माहौल और an earth-bound object.
They mostly originate in thunderclouds and terminate on the ground, पुकारा बादल to Ground ( CG ) lightning.
However, they may also be initiated from a very लम्बा grounded object and reach into the clouds.
Although `` a lightning strike '' is commonly used to describe all lightning, it is rather erroneous and a misnomer, as only about 25 % of all lightning events worldwide are CG, the large bulk of lightning events are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to बादल ( cc ), जहाँ निर्वहन तभी occurs ऊँची in the माहौल.
The scientific name for the complete process of a single lightning event is a and it is a very complex, अनेक stepped बातचीत, जिससे is not completely understood.
Most CG flashes only `` strike '' one physical location, referred to as a termination.
The primary conducting channel, the bright coursing light you may see and call a `` strike '', is only about 1 inch in diameter, although to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are miles long, upwards of tens of miles.
And the entire flash, lasts only a few fractions of a second, most of which is not visible to human eyes.
थंडर is always produced by lightning.
Just like lightning, that deceives our eyes, usually looking larger or closer than it really is, the earth 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the outside world, ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not.
बिजली can नहीं happen in a वैक्यूम विहीन of ions, nor can थंडर occur बगैर अणुओं to हिलना.
थंडर is a physical absolute for every single flash of lightning.
Contrary to popular belief, a lightning strike itself is usually not responsible लिये अनेक deaths or injuries from a single event.
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of a flash, unless people or animals were stacked on top of each other, or they were somehow arranged vertically and part of the flash channel.
When lightning ignites an available fuel source and an विस्फोट occurs, it is the shock wave or fire causing the injuries, not the strike itself.
Ground Currents, also called step संभावित, of an धरती termination is what truly causes most injuries or death to humans and animals.
The near instantaneous rush of surface charges, induced by the overhead thundercloud itself, race to the strike point from hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge.
This current, caused during each stroke, takes the path of least resistance, which may be ion rich human or animal legs, over poorly conducting earth.
This is why it is best to crouch, with feet close together, if ever caught in the open during a thunderstorm.
Unfortunately, most reports do not चित्रण a भेद between the real cause of injury or death, be it the strike itself, a resulting explosion or fire, or usually responsible step potential.
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the current Attorney General of Rhode Island.
Kilmartin is also a retired police captain and a former member of the Rhode Island House of Representatives.
A couple following their marriage in the Manti Utah Temple.
sealing is an ordinance ( ritual ) performed in Latter Day Saints temples by a person holding the sealing authority.
The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar relationships, making possible the existence of family relationships throughout eternity.
LDS teachings place great importance on the specific authority required to perform ये sealings.
Church doctrine teaches that this authority, called the Priesthood, corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in.
Sealings are typically performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents.
They were performed prior to the death of Joseph Smith, Jr. ( the main founder of the Latter Day Saint movement ), and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Although some other denominations, such as the Community of Christ, view sealing as an artifact of Smith 's practice of plural marriage, some do still perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two thousands '', was a decade that began on January 1, 2000, and ended on December 31, 2009.
Globalization, which had accelerated after the early 1990s पतन of साम्यवादी, continued to be a force in the 2000s.
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to globalization during the decade, making it possible for people to interact with other people, express ideas, introduce others to different cultures and पृष्ठभूमि, उपयोग goods और सेवाएं, बेचें and buy online, research and learn about things, along with experiencing the world without having to leave home.
The institutions, linkages and technologies that emerged or were redefined earlier would subsequently in this decade benefit many countries, in particular China and India.
However, in other parts of the world such progress failed to address ongoing struggles with modernity, most notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups.
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the संयुक्त States, United Kingdom, Spain, Canada and other nations invading Afghanistan, as well as implementing various anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror.
The यूरोपीय संघ saw further integration and expansion throughout much of Europe.
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable environmental consequences, raised demand for diminishing energy resources, and was still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s.
The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral was a gunfight that took place at about 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 26, 1881, in Tombstone, Arizona Territory, and is generally regarded as the सबसे प्रसिद्ध gunfight in the history of the American Old West.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted तभी परिचय तीस सेकेंड, थी लड़ा between the outlaw Cowboys Billy Claiborne, Ike and Billy Clanton, and Tom and Frank McLaury, and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp and his brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt, aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil.
Ike clanton and Billy Claiborne ran from the fight unharmed, but Ike 's brother Billy Clanton was killed, along with both McLaurys.
Lawmen Virgil and मॉर्गन earp and Doc Holliday were wounded.
Only Wyatt Earp came through the fight unharmed.
The fight has come to represent a time in American history when the frontier was open range for outlaws opposed by law enforcement that was spread thin over vast territories, leaving some areas unprotected.
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has since been determined to be a largely fictionalized biography, Wyatt Earp : Frontier Marshal, two years after Earp 's death.
Lake retold his story in a 1946 book that director John Ford developed into the movie My Darling Clementine.
After the फिल्म Gunfight at the O.K. Corral was released in 1957, the shootout came to be known by that name.
Since तब, the conflict has been portrayed with varying degrees of accuracy in numerous Western films and books.
Despite its name, the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot six doors west of the rear entrance to the O.K. Corral on fremont Street, and also in the street.
The two opposing parties were initially only about apart.
परिचय तीस गोलियाँ यहूद fired in तीस सेकेंड.
आइक clanton दायर murder charges against the Earps and Doc Holliday but they were eventually exonerated by a local judge after a 30-day preliminary hearing and then again by a local grand jury.
On December 28, 1881, Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by the outlaw Cowboys, and on March 18, 1882, they assassinated Morgan Earp.
The suspects furnished solid alibis, and newly appointed Deputy U.S. Marshal Wyatt Earp took matters into his own hands during the earp Vendetta Ride, ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest.
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed वीडियो data and compressed/uncompressed digital audio data from a HDMI-compliant device ( `` the source device '' ) to a compatible computer monitor, video projector, digital television, or digital audio device.
HDMI is a digital बदलना for existing analog video standards.
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable connectors available, each of which can be used for कोई uncompressed TV or PC video format, including standard, enhanced, high definition, and 3D video signals ; up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a CEC ( Consumer Electronics Control ) connection ; and an Ethernet data connection.
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards, which define video formats and waveforms, transport of compressed, uncompressed, and LPCM audio, auxiliary data, and implementations of the VESA EDID.
the cec allows hdmi डिवाइस to कंट्रोल प्रत्येक अन्य जब जरुरी और allows the उपयोक्ता to operate अनेक डिवाइस साथ एक रिमोट कंट्रोल हैंडसेट.
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 signals used by digital visual इंटरफ़ेस ( DVI ), no signal conversion is necessary, nor is there a loss of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used.
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection, HDMI is independent of the various digital television standards used by individual devices, such as ATSC and DVB, as these are encapsulations of compressed MPEG video streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ).
Production of उपभोक्ता HDMI products started in late 2003.
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is included in the HD ready in-store labeling specification लिये tv सेट लिये hdtv, प्रतिपादित by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005.
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV camcorders and digital still cameras in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, which is ten years after the release of the first HDMI specification, over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch of the HDMI standard.
Bree Van de kamp ( née मेसन ; भी ज्ञात in the series as Bree Hodge and Bree Weston ) is a fictional character and one of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives.
She is played by actress marcia Cross, who has received multiple awards and nominations for her portrayal, including an Emmy Award nomination, three Golden Globe Award nominations, and two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely praised by critics and fans.
Cross originally auditioned for the role of Mary Alice Young, but series creator Marc Cherry thought she was better suited for the role of Bree.
Dana delany, जो आखिरकार थी cast as Katherine Mayfair, was originally chosen for the role but turned it down, saying it was too similar to her role in Pasadena.
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been her attempts to maintain a perfect life despite various obstacles such as widowhood, divorce, और alcoholism hindering her.
She has been married three times ; to Rex Van de Kamp ( Steven Culp ), Orson Hodge ( Kyle maclachlan ) and Trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ).
See also the Town of Algoma in Winnebago County, विस्कॉन्सिन.
See also Algoma ( Disambiguation ).
Algoma is a city in Kewaunee County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,167 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Algoma is part of the Green Bay महानगर Statistical Area.
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 American comedy film produced by Legendary Pictures and distributed by warner Bros. Pictures.
It is the sequel to 2009 's The Hangover and the second film in The Hangover franchise.
Todd Phillips directed the film in addition to co-authoring the script with Craig Mazin, and Scot Armstrong.
The film stars Bradley Cooper, ed helms, zach Galifianakis, Ken Jeong, Jeffrey Tambor, Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti.
The Hangover Part II tells the story of Phil, Stu, Alan, and Doug as they travel to Thailand for Stu 's wedding.
After the bachelor party in Las Vegas, Stu takes no chances and opts for a safe, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do not go as planned, resulting in another bad hangover साथ no यादें of the previous night.
विकास of The Hangover Part II began in April 2009, two months before The Hangover was released.
The principal actors were cast in March 2010 to reprise their roles from the first film.
Production began in October 2010, in Ontario, California, before चलती on location in Thailand.
The film was released on May 26, 2011 and, despite receiving mostly negative reviews from critics, it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy दौरान इसके theatrical run.
A third film is set for on May 24, 2013.
Young Man Among Roses, portrait miniature by Nicholas Hilliard, 1588, V & A.
believed to be the Earl of Essex
The Ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth I by the foreign Marcus Gheeraerts the Younger, c.1592
The English Renaissance was a cultural and artistic movement in England dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century.
It is associated with the pan-European Renaissance that is usually regarded as beginning in इटली in the late 14th century.
Like most of northern Europe, England saw little of these developments until more than a century later.
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, when the Battle of Bosworth Field ended the युद्धों of the गुलाब and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty.
Renaissance style and ideas, however, were slow in penetrating England, and the Elizabethan era in the second half of the 16th century is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance.
Elizabeth ऐन bloomer वारेन `` बेट्टी '' घाट ( अप्रैल 8, 1918 – जुलाई 8, 2011 ), थी पहला महिला of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1974 to 1977 दौरान the प्रेसिडेंसी of उसके husband जेराल्ड घाट.
As First Lady, she was active in social policy and created precedents as a politically active अध्यक्षीय wife.
Throughout her husband 's term in office, she maintained high approval ratings despite opposition from some conservative Republicans who objected to her more मॉडरेट और liberal positions on social issues.
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness following her 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate supporter of, and activist for, the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ).
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement, she gained fame as one of the most candid first ladies in history, commenting on every hot-button issue of the time, including feminism, equal pay, the ERA, sex, drugs, abortion, and gun control.
She भी उठाया जागरूकता of व्यसन when she announced her long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s.
Following her White House years, she continued to lobby for the ERA and remained क्रियाशील in the feminist movement.
She was the founder, and served as the first chair of the board of directors, of the Betty Ford Center for substance abuse and addiction and is a recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal ( co-presentation with her husband, Gerald R. Ford, October 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone, presented 1991, by George H. W. Bush ).
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a प्रोटीन कि in इंसान is एनकोडेड by the PECAM1 gene found on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a key role in removing aged neutrophils from the देह.
Jessica Rafalowski, Miss Florida USA 2008
Jenna Edwards, Miss फ्लोरिडा USA 2007
Melissa Witek, Miss Florida USA 2005
Kristen Berset, Miss Florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the प्रतिनिधि लिये the state Florida in the Miss USA pageant.
While Florida has been successful in terms of runners-up, finalists and semi-finalists, the state has never won the Miss USA pageant, although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe.
Florida 's best results were दौरान the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
Their most recent फाइनलिस्ट was Lissette Garcia who placed in the top 16 in 2011.
Two former Miss Florida Teen USA titleholders have won this competition, and three titleholders have also competed at Miss America.
The current titleholder is Michelle Aguirre of hialeah.
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became known as England, lasting from the end of Roman occupation and establishment of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror.
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples who came to Britain during the 5th and 6th सदियां, सहित Angles, Saxons, Frisii, and Jutes.
The term also refers to the language spoken at the time in England, which is now called Old English, and to the culture of the era, which has long आकर्षित लोकप्रिय और scholarly attention.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy, the kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia, East Anglia, Essex, Kent, Sussex, and Wessex.
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism during the early period, but converted to Christianity during the 7th century.
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of Mercian hegemony during the 640s, ending with the death of Penda of Mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of Viking invasions, the House of Wessex became dominant during the 9th century, under the rule of Alfred the Great.
During the 10th century, the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of Wessex into the Kingdom of England, which stood opposed to the Danelaw, the Viking kingdoms established from the 9th century in the north and east of England.
The Kingdom of England fell in the Viking invasion from Denmark in 1013 and was ruled by the House of Denmark until 1042, when the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored.
The last Anglo-Saxon king, Harold Godwinson, was killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings.
lighting a परंपरागत रेड ईंटों जॉन रॉस jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation of salmon, typically a fillet that has been cured and hot or cold smoked.
Due to its moderately high price, smoked salmon is माना a delicacy.
Although the term lox is sometimes applied to smoked salmon, they are different products.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड position and placement.
Defibrillation is a आम उपचार लिये life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed.
Some external units, known as स्वचालित बाह्य defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some cases no training at all.
Gabrielle `` कोको '' bonheur चैनल ( अगस्त 19, 1883 – जनवरी 10, 1971 ) थी a फ्रेंच फ़ैशन पंक्तियां और संस्थापक of the चैनल ब्रांड.
She was the only fashion designer to appear on Time magazine 's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.
Along with Paul Poiret, Chanel was credited with liberating women from the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' and popularizing the acceptance of a sportive, casual chic as the feminine standard in the post- World War I era.
A prolific fashion creator, Chanel 's influence extended beyond couture clothing.
Her design aesthetic was realized in आभूषण, हैंडबैग, and fragrance.
Her signature scent, Chanel No. 5, रै become an iconic product.
Chanel was known for her lifelong determination, ambition and उर्जा जिससे she applied to her professional and social life.
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social prominence thanks to the कनेक्शन्स she made through her work.
These included many कलाकारों and craftspeople to whom she became a patron.
However, Chanel 's highly competitive, opportunistic personality led her to make questionable life choices which have generated controversy around her reputation, particularly her behaviour during the German occupation of France in World War II.
Allied Mills flour mill on the बैंको of the Manchester Ship Canal
A gristmill ( also : grist mill, corn mill or flour mill ) grinds grain into flour.
The term can refer to दोनो the पीस mechanism and the building that holds it.
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country located at the चौराहे of सेंट्रल and Southeastern Europe, bordering on the Black Sea.
Romania shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the west, Ukraine and Moldova to the northeast and east, and Bulgaria to the south.
At, Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union by area, and has the seventh largest जनसांख्यिकी of the यूरोपीय Union with more than 19 million people.
Its capital and biggest city is Bucharest, the 11th largest city in the EU.
the संयुक्त principalities उभरा जब the territories of moldavia और wallachia यहूद संयुक्त अंतर्गत प्रिंस सिकंदर ioan Cuza in 1859.
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian Principate and in 1881 he was finally crowned as किंग कैरोल i the पहला monarch of the Kingdom of Romania.
Independence from the Ottoman Empire was declared on 9 May 1877, and was internationally पहचाना the following year.
At the end of संसार युद्ध i, Transylvania, Bukovina and Bessarabia united with the Kingdom of Romania.
World War II दिया कारण to the वृद्धि of a military dictatorship in Romania under fascist General Ion Antonescu, who chose to fight on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944.
After his removal, Romania switched sides in 1944 and joined the allies.
By the end of the war, some formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied by the Soviet Union, with Red Army units stationed on रोमानियाई soil.
In 1947 रोमानिया forcibly became a लोगों 's Republic ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the Warsaw Pact.
in 1965 nicolae ceauşescu became सामान्य सचिव of the रोमानियाई कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी, और the हर्ष austerity उपायों, राजनैतिक दमन, और cult of व्यक्तित्व he implemented led to the समाजवादी गणतंत्र of रोमानिया ( 1965-1989 ) बनने the सबसे stalinist पुलिस राज्य in the Eastern bloc.
Eventually his authoritarian government was toppled in December 1989 दौरान the रोमानियाई क्रान्ति of 1989.
With the fall of the Iron Curtain, Romania began its transition towards democracy and a capitalist market economy.
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards decline, extensive reforms fostered economic recovery.
As of 2010, Romania is an upper-middle-income country साथ a high human development index.
Romania joined NATO on 29 March 2004, और the यूरोपीय Union on 1 January 2007.
It is also a member of the : Latin Union, Francophonie, OSCE, WTO, BSEC, United Nations, etc.
Today, Romania is a एकात्मक semi-presidential गणतंत्र, in which the executive branch consists of the President and the Government.
`` Ancient '' redirects here.
For other uses, देखिए प्राचीनता ( disambiguation ).
The times before writing belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
Khafre 's Pyramid ( 4th dynasty ) and Great Sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps पहले )
Ancient history is the study of the written past इससे the शुरूआत of recorded human history to the Early Middle Ages.
The span of recorded इतिहास is roughly 5,000 years, with Cuneiform script, the oldest discovered form of coherent writing, from the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC.
This is the beginning of history, as opposed to prehistory, according to the definition used by सबसे इतिहासकारों.
The term classical प्राचीनता is often used to refer to history in the Old World from the beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ).
इस roughly coincides साथ the परंपरागत तिथि of the founding of रोम in 753 bc, the शुरूआत of the इतिहास of प्राचीन रोम, और the शुरूआत of the archaic काल in प्राचीन Greece.
Although the ending date of ancient इतिहास is disputed, some Western scholars use the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD, the closure of the Platonic Academy in 529 AD, the death of the emperor Justinian I, the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history.
In India, the period includes the early period of the Middle Kingdoms, and, in China, the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included.
methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12, occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and बेचैन system, and for the formation of blood.
it is एक of the eight B vitamins.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body, especially affecting DNA synthesis and regulation, but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor animals are सक्षम of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required लिये इसके synthesis, although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically related यौगिकों ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
It contains the biochemically rare element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin ), but conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body.
a आम semi-synthetic रूप of the विटामिन, cyanocobalamin, करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति, लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ और पूरक, और as a खाना योगात्मक, क्युकी of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the इंसान physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
The extra utility of ये is currently debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting मूलभूत factor are destroyed.
मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर is निर्णायक लिये the normal absorption of B12, so a lack of intrinsic factor, as seen in pernicious anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization, characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, had been destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire, including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the बैटल of actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two सदियां of the साम्राज्य यहूद a काल of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It reached its महानतम expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a संकट कि threatened इसके अस्तित्व, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th century, during which time a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East.
बाद the पतन of सेंट्रल सरकारी in the वेस्ट in the 5th सदी, the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as कया होता बाद be ज्ञात as the बीज़ान्टिन साम्राज्य.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law, and forms of government in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total body surface area ( TBSA ) is an assessment measure of burns of the skin.
In adults, the `` rule of nines '' is used to determine the total percentage of area burned for each major section of the body.
In some cases, the burns may कवर अधिक than one body part, or may not fully cover such a part ; in these cases, burns are measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the body.
For children and infants, the Lund-Browder chart is used to assess the burned body surface area.
Different percentages are used because the ratio of the combined surface area of the head and neck to the surface area of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an adult.
Typical values for common groups of humans follow.
( Due to rounding, values may not add to 100 %. )
World infant mortality rates by five years averages in 2008.
इस is a सूची of देशों by शिशु मृत्यु रेट.
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26, 1975 ), better known by his stage name KJ-52, is a Christian rapper from Tampa, Florida.
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old rap alias, `` King J. Mac, '' a name which he later वर्णित in one of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` five two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish, which is also sung about in उसके सोंग `` धक्का up '' इससे the yearbook and in the `` KJ Five Two '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two.
He was awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year for `` Never Look Away '' and rap/hip हॉप एल्बम of the साल at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007.
On July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` End of My Rope '', which is the first single for his album Five-Two Television.
His song `` Dear Slim '' is based on Eminem 's song `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal message from KJ-52 to Eminem.
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is used, among other things, to represent degrees of arc ( e.g. in geographic coordinate systems ), hours ( in the medical field ), or degrees of temperature.
The symbol consists of a small raised circle, historically a zero glyph.
In युनिकोड it is encoded at.
This is a list of roots, suffixes, और prefixes used in medical terminology, their meanings, and their etymology.
There are a few rules when using medical roots.
Firstly, prefixes and suffixes, primarily in Greek, but also in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
As a general rule, this -o- almost always acts as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal roots, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = arthritis, instead of arthr-o-itis.
Secondly, medical roots generally go together according to language : Greek prefixes go with Greek suffixes और लैटिन prefixes with Latin suffixes.
Although international scientific vocabulary is not कठोर परिचय segregating combining forms of different languages, it is advisable when coining new words not to mix different lingual roots.
Stomach cancer, or gastric cancer, refers to cancer arising from any part of the stomach.
Stomach cancer causes about 800,000 deaths worldwide per year.
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) because most patients present with उन्नत बीमारी.
Sara Lynn Evans ( born February 5, 1971 ) is an American country singer and songwriter.
For उसके entire career, she has been signed to RCA Records Nashville.
Evans ' debut, Three Chords and the Truth, did not produce a Top 40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts.
She followed this up with No Place That Far ( 1998 ), Born to Fly ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ).
No Place That Far प्राप्त a gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ), while the other three albums all were certified platinum.
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place That Far ``, `` Born to Fly ``, `` Suds in the Bucket `` and `` A Real Fine Place to Start ``, plus the top 10 hits `` I could नहीं Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ), `` I Keep Looking ``, `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest हिट्स शामिल the top 15 hits `` You 'll Always Be My Baby `` and `` As If ``.
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit, `` A Little Bit Stronger ``, which was co-written by Hillary स्कॉट of महिला antebellum.
Evans has also won one award each from Billboard, the Academy of Country Music, Country Music Association, Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award.
The world 's principal religions and spiritual traditions may be classified into a small number of major groups, although this is by no means a uniform practice.
This theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the relative levels of civility in societies.
Berliners watching a C-54 land at tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was one of the first major international crises of the Cold War.
दौरान the बहुराष्ट्रीय occupation of post–world युद्ध ii जर्मनी, the सोवियत संघ अवरोधित the पश्चिमी allies ' रेल, सड़क, और कनाल अभिगम to the सेक्टर of बर्लिन अंतर्गत अलाइड कंट्रोल.
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying Berlin with food and ईंधन, thereby giving the Soviets practical control over the entire city.
In response, the पश्चिमी Allies organized the Berlin airlift to carry supplies to the people in West Berlin.
Aircrews from the United States Air Force, the British Royal Air Force, the Royal Australian Air Force, the Royal Canadian Air Force, the Royal New Zealand Air Force, and the South African Air Force flew over 200,000 flights in one year, providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as fuel and food to the Berliners.
By the spring of 1949, the प्रयत्न थी clearly succeeding and, by April, the airlift was delivering more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail.
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought शर्मिंदगी to the soviets who had refused to believe it could make a difference.
The नाकेबंदी थी lifted in May 1949 and resulted in the creation of two separate German states.
The Federal Republic of Germany ( West Germany ) and the German Democratic Republic ( ईस्ट जर्मनी ) split up Berlin.
In remembrance of the airlift, three airports in the former western zones of the city served as the प्राथमिक gateways to जर्मनी लिये another fifty years.
The euro sign ; logotype and हस्तलिखित.
The euro sign is the currency sign used लिये the euro, the official currency of the Eurozone in the European Union ( EU ).
The design was presented to the public by the European आयोग on 12 दिसम्बर 1996.
The international three-letter code ( according to ISO standard ISO 4217 ) लिये the euro is EUR.
In Unicode it is encoded at.
In English, the चिह्न precedes the value.
In some styleguides, but not others, the यूरोपियन sign is unspaced.
Mate (, ; sometimes also spelled maté ), also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a traditional South American infused drink, particularly in Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and the southern states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile, the Bolivian Chaco, Syria and Lebanon.
it is prepared इससे steeping सूखी पत्ते of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, ज्ञात in पुर्तगाली as erva-mate ) in hot जल.
Mate is served with a metal straw from a साझा खोखला calabash gourd.
The straw is called a bombilla in some Latin American countries, a bomba in पुर्तगाली, और a bombija or, more generally, a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic.
The straw is traditionally made of चांदी.
Modern, commercially available straws are typically made of nickel silver, पुकारा alpaca ; बेदाग स्टील, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil, it has the विशिष्ट name of cuia, or also cabaça ( the name for Indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in other regions of Brazil, still used for general food and drink in remote regions ).
Even if the जल is supplied from a modern thermos, the infusion is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias.
As with अन्य brewed herbs, yerba mate leaves are dried, chopped, and ground into a powdery mixture called yerba.
The bombilla acts as both a straw and a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, with small holes or slots that allow the brewed liquid in, but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture.
A modern bombilla design uses a straight tube with holes, or spring sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have been on the market in Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay for many years under such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina, `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay, and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão ''.
This is considered a completely अलग drink.
It is never drunk from cuias or called chimarrão, nor is it associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
The automotive industry is a term that covers a wide range of companies and organisations involved in the design, development, manufacture, marketing, and selling of motor vehicles, towed vehicles, motorcycles and mopeds.
It is one of the world 's most important economic sectors by revenue.
The term automotive industry usually does not include industries dedicated to the maintenance of automobiles following delivery to the end-user, such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations.
The term automotive was created from Greek autos ( self ), and Latin motivus ( of motion ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle.
This term was proposed by sae member Elmer Sperry.
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista, Jr. ( born जनवरी 18, 1969 ), is an American mixed martial artist, bodybuilder, actor, and former professional wrestler best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment competing under the ring name Batista.
In WWE, he became a six-time world champion, winning the World हेवीवेट चैंपियनशिप four times, and the WWE Championship two times.
He is the longest-reigning World Heavyweight Champion in WWE इतिहास.
In addition to these championships, Batista has won the World Tag Team Championship three times ( twice with Ric Flair and once with John Cena ) और the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ).
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went on to headline रेसलमेनिया 21, one of the top five highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant, Batista signed a contract with the WWF in 2000 and was sent to its developmental territory, Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW ), where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship.
In August 2012, Bautista signed a contract with Classic Entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts.
He won his MMA डेब्यू on अक्तूबर 6, 2012, defeating विंस lucero via tko in the पहला गोलाकार.
Henry T. Thomas Sampson, Jr. ( born in Jackson, Mississippi in 1934 ) is an African-American inventor.
He graduated from high school in 1951 from Lanier High School in Jackson, मिसिसिपी.
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years before transferring to purdue विश्वविद्यालयों where he became a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity.
He received a Bachelor 's उपाधि in विज्ञान इससे Purdue University in 1956.
He graduated with an MS degree in engineering इससे the University of California, Los Angeles in 1961.
Sampson also प्राप्त उसके ms in नाभिकीय Engineering from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965, and his PhD in 1967.
He is the first African American to earn a Ph.D.in Nuclear Engineering in the United States.
Some of his accomplishments include being a member of the United States Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and earning an Atomic Energy Commission honor between 1964 and 1967.
बाद he थी awarded the ब्लैक चित्र पुरस्कार इससे aerospace निगम in 1982.
He was awarded the Blacks in Engineering, Applied Science Award, and prize for education, by the Los Angeles Council of Black पेशेवर Engineers in 1983.
In June 2007, Sampson was married to Laura Howzell Young in St. Thomas, u.S. Virgin Islands.
Young-Sampson is a professor in the College of Education at California State University San Bernardino.
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born कूच 29, 1971 ) is a senior campaign adviser for US President Barack Obama.
previously, he थी the 28th White House Press Secretary.
Gibbs was the संचार director for then- U.S. Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign.
Gibbs, who has worked with Obama since 2004, was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in सीनेट अभियान, having served as communications director for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and for four individual Senate campaigns, including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998.
Gibbs was also the दबायें सचिव of Representative Bob Etheridge.
On November 22, 2008, Gibbs was announced as the press secretary of the Obama administration.
He assumed the role of press secretary on January 20, 2009, and gave his first official briefing on जनवरी 22.
On January 5, 2011, Gibbs announced that he would leave the White House to become an outside adviser to the administration.
he बाएँ on February 11, 2011.
On February 12, 2013, it was announced that Gibbs had been hired as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC.
His first appearance was on the वही रात्रि prior to the 2013 State Of The Union Address.
Armando Pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), better known by his स्टेज name Pitbull, is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer.
His पहला अंकित performance was from the Lil Jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released his debut album titled M.I.A.M.I. ( short for धन is a प्रमुख Issue ) under TVT Records.
Since then, he has released three other albums under the label : El Mariel in 2006, The boatlift in 2007, and Planet Pit in 2011.
He released Rebelution in 2009, which included singles `` I Know You Want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` krazy ``.
The latter peaked at No. 30 on the Hot 100 and No. 11 on the Hot Rap Tracks charts while `` I Know You Want Me '' peaked at No. 2 on the Hot 100 and peaked within the top ten spots of charts in the UK, Canada, Italy, and the Netherlands.
The song reached No. 1 in France और the यूरोपीय hot 100 on the week ending August 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
He later signed with Polo Grounds Music through Sony Music and created his own label Mr. 305 Inc.
Another single from Rebelution was `` Hotel Room Service ``, जिससे peaked at No. 8 on the Hot 100.
Rebelution went on to sell over 7.5 million worldwide digital singles और albums combined.
nevertheless, he dropped a तोड़ called `` Give Me Everything '' which reached # 1 worldwide, and featured artists Ne-yo, Nayer, and Afrojack.
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit songs, like Tik Tok, Scream & Shout, Lo Hecho Esta Hecho, Bad, Papi, Diamonds, How Low, Tonight ( I 'm Lovin ' You ), Video Phone, Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride.
Pérez is also the host of his own Spanish-language program on the केबल चैनल Mun2 titled La Esquina ( Spanish for The Corner ).
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' Combs co-founded ख़राब लड़के Latino, a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad Boy Records label.
It primarily focuses on Latin hip hop, Latin soul, लैटिन पॉप और अन्य Tropical music, and has offices in New York and Miami, Florida.
Along साथ co-founding it, Pérez currently heads the A & R division of the label.
Pérez has become a उत्पाद endorser, representing alongside ड्रेक, Rihanna, and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand and embarking on a partnership with the soft drink giant Dr Pepper as part of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically featured on his album Armando.
pitbull भी घोषित he रै become the प्रवक्ता लिये voli वोदका, in जिससे he holds a बहुमत इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी, और budweiser रै चुनी pitbull to प्रचार इसके कली लाइट लकीर of बियर.
The commercials फिलहाल highlight Pitbull dancing and gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of Bud Light.
Pitbull has also purchased an equity stake in Miami Subs Pizza and Grill.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), also known as All Hallows ' Eve, is a yearly celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of सब hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, slander, obscenity, sedition ( including, for example inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of information that is classified or otherwise.
The right to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the कसरत of ये अधिकारों carries `` खास कर्तव्य और जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of नेशनल सुरक्षा or of पब्लिक अनुक्रम ( अनुक्रम पब्लिक ), or of पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य or नैतिकता ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense, such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
Sydney Harbour from the air, showing the Opera House, the CBD, Circular Quay, the Bridge, the Parramatta River, North Sydney and Kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail, vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore.
The dramatic view of the सेतु, the harbour, and the nearby Sydney Opera House is an iconic image of Sydney, New South Wales, and Australia.
The सेतु is nicknamed `` The Coathanger '' because of its arch-based design.
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C. Bradfield of the NSW Department of Public Works, the bridge was designed and built by British firm Dorman Long and Co Ltd of middlesbrough और खोली in 1932.
The bridge 's design was influenced by the नरक फाटक सेतु in New York.
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge, at 48.8 meters ( 160 फीट ) चौड़ी, जबतक निर्माण of the new Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver.
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge in the world, and it is the tallest steel arch bridge, measuring from top to water level.
Until 1967 the harbour Bridge was Sydney 's tallest structure.
the हवाई हॉटस्पॉट is a volcanic हॉटस्पॉट स्तिथ निकट the namesake हवाई आइलैंड्स, in the उत्तरी Pacific Ocean.
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world, the Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation of the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain, an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of volcanoes, four of which are क्रियाशील, दो of जिससे हैं dormant, और अधिक than 123 of which are extinct, many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends from south of the island of Hawaii to the किनारे of the Aleutian Trench, near the eastern edge of Russia.
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries, the Hawaii hotspot is located far from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot theory, first proposed in 1963 by John Tuzo Wilson, proposes that a single, fixed mantle plume builds volcanoes that then, cut off from their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate, become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years.
According to this theory, the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and Hawaiian segments of the chain was caused by a sudden shift in the movement of the Pacific Plate.
In 2003, fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot theory, suggesting that hotspots are mobile, not fixed, and that the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's.
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the ज्वालामुखी to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands.
the volatile राज्य of the हवाई ज्वालामुखी और उनके निरंतर बैटल साथ the समुद्र थी a प्रमुख तत्व in हवाई mythology, समाविष्ट in pele, the देवता of ज्वालामुखी.
After the arrival of Europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 जेम्स Dwight Dana directed the first formal geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics, confirming the relationship long observed by the natives.
1912 marked the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by volcanologist Thomas Jaggar, initiating continuous scientific observation of the islands.
In the 1970s, a mapping project was initiated to gain more information about the जटिल geology of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged, showing it to be wide and up to deep, and olivine and garnet -based studies have shown its मैग्मा कक्ष is approximately.
In its at least 85 million years of activity the hotspot has उत्पादित an estimated of rock.
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time, causing the amount of time each individual volcano is active to decrease, from 18 million years for the 76 million year old Detroit Seamount, to just under 900,000 for the one million year-old Kohala ; on the other hand, eruptive volume has increased from per year to about.
Overall, this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas volcanoes on the near side of the hotspot overlap each other ( forming such superstructures as हवाई द्वीप और the प्राचीन मावी नुई ), the oldest of the सम्राट seamounts are spaced as far as apart.
David Palmer, director of the show, घोषित कि the season 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show.
Petitions are being हस्ताक्षरित to bring the show for a fifth season.
The show airs on Treehouse TV Canada and Nick Jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film directed by Martin Davidson with the screenplay written by the director and Arlene Davidson, based on the novel by P. F. Kluge.
It was marketed with the tagline `` Rebel.
रॉकर.
प्रेमी.
आइडल.
vanished. ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the maxilla and the mandible.
Various forms of ONJ have been described over the last 160 years, and a number of causes have been suggested in the साहित्य.
osteonecrosis of the jaws associated with bisphosphonate therapy, required by some cancer treatment regimens, has been identified and defined as a pathological entity since 2003.
The possible risk from lower oral doses of bisphosphonates, taken by patients to prevent or दावत osteoporosis, remains uncertain.
Various treatment options have been explored, however severe cases of ONJ still require surgical removal of the affected bone.
a thorough इतिहास and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible sites of dental infection are required to help prevent the condition, especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered.
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in Boston, Massachusetts, and a member of Major League Baseball 's American League Eastern Division.
Founded in as one of the American League 's eight charter franchises, the Red Sox 's home ballpark has been Fenway Park since.
the `` रेड sox '' नाम थी चुनी by the टोली मालिक, जॉन I. टेलर, around, following पिछला बोस्टन टीमों कि था महरूम ज्ञात as the `` रेड stockings ``.
वे have played in 11 World Series, winning 7.
Boston was a dominant team in the new league, defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates in the first World Series in and winning four more championships by.
However, they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball इतिहास, पुकारा by कुछ the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe Ruth to the rival Yankees two years after their world championship in 1918, an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in.
However, the team 's history during that period was hardly one of futility, लकिन थी बल्कि punctuated साथ कुछ of the सबसे यादगार पल in World Series history, including Enos Slaughter 's `` mad dash `` in, the `` Impossible Dream `` of, Carlton Fisk 's home run in, and Bill Buckner 's error in.
Red Sox history has also been marked by the team 's intense rivalry with the New York Yankees, arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American professional sports.
The Boston Red Sox are owned by Fenway Sports Group, who also own Liverpool Football Club of the Premier League in England.
The Red Sox are consistently one of the top MLB teams in average road attendance, while the छोटी capacity of Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance.
From May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular season ) for a major professional sports record that lasted almost a decade.
Mince pie filled साथ mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture of chopped dried fruit, distilled spirits and spices, और sometimes बीफ suet, beef, or venison.
Originally, mincemeat always contained meat.
Many modern recipes contain बीफ suet, हालांकि सब्ज़ी shortening is sometimes used in its place.
Variants of mincemeat are found in Australia, Brittany, Canada, northern Europe, Ireland, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In some countries the term mincemeat refers to minced or ground meat.
Diana, Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) was the first wife of Charles, Prince of Wales, the eldest son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II.
She was खूब ज्ञात लिये उसके fund-raising work for international charities and as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century.
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 जुलाई 1981 was held at St Paul 's Cathedral and seen by a global television audience of over 750 million.
While married she bore the titles Princess of Wales, duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, Duchess of Rothesay, Countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew.
The marriage produced two sons, the princes William and Harry, who became दूसरी and third in line to the British throne.
Diana was born into an aristocratic English family with royal ancestry.
She was the fourth child of John Spencer, 8th Earl Spencer and his wife Frances, daughter of Maurice Roche, 4th Baron Fermoy.
She became a public figure with the announcement of her engagement.
She also प्राप्त मान्यता लिये उसके दान work and for her support of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines.
From 1989, she was the president of the Great Ormond Street Hospital for children, in जोड to दर्जनों of other charities.
Diana remained the object of worldwide media scrutiny during and after her marriage, which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996.
Media attention and public mourning were considerable following her death in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997.
Argentina, officially the अर्जेंटाइन गणतंत्र ( ), is the second largest country in both South America and the Latin America region.
The country is a federation of 23 provinces and the autonomous city of Buenos Aires, its capital and largest city.
it is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and the largest among Spanish-speaking nations by geographical area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by population, with over 41 million people.
Argentina is a founding member of the United Nations, Mercosur, the Union of South American Nations, the Organization of ibero-american राज्य, the संसार बैंको Group and the World Trade Organization, and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies.
अर्जेंटीना is स्तिथ in दक्षिण अमेरिका, bordered by चिली to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण, बोलीविया और पैराग्वे to the उत्तर और ब्राज़ील और उरुग्वे to the पूर्वोत्तर.
Argentina claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica, the Falkland Islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor state of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire.
Argentina declared independence during the Argentine War of Independence, which थी followed by the Argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century.
The country faced several military coups and राजनैतिक अस्थिरता दौरान the 20th century, along with periodic economic crisis that continue to this day.
A recognized Southern कोन शक्ति, and middle power, Argentina is Latin America 's third-largest economy, with a `` very high '' rating on the Human development index.
Within Latin America, Argentina has the पांचवां उच्चतम nominal GDP per capita and the highest in purchasing power terms.
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for future growth due to its market size, levels of foreign direct investment, and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods '', and it is classed by निवेशकों as मध्य emerging economy.
Argentina is the Latin American country with the most Nobel Prizes, for a total of five, all obtained during the second half of the twentieth century.
The country has three Nobel prizes in science and two of peace.
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with medicine, nuclear physics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities.
The country also has the mega exhibition center of science, technology, industry and art that are Latin America 's largest.
Hickory is a city in Catawba County, with parts also in Burke County and Caldwell County.
The city 's 2010 अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010.
Hickory is the प्रिंसिपल नगर in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA, in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written बहु ( एथिलीन terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated पालतु, पीट, or the obsolete PETP or PET-P, is a thermoplastic polymer resin of the polyester family and is used in synthetic fibers ; beverage, food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber.
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a source of confusion because this substance, PET, करता नहीं contain polyethylene.
Thus, the alternate form, poly ( ethylene terephthalate ), is often used in scholarly journals for the sake of accuracy and clarity.
Depending on its processing and thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an amorphous ( transparent ) and as a semi-crystalline polymer.
The semicrystalline material might appear transparent ( particle size < 500 nm ) or opaque and white ( particle size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and ethylene glycol with water as a byproduct, or by transesterification प्रतिक्रिया between एथिलीन glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers ( done तत्काल after esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct.
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 % ), with bottle production accounting for around 30 % of global demand.
In the context of textile applications, पालतु is referred to by इसके आम नाम, `` polyester, '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is generally used in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer production और is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second, respectively.
PET consists of polymerized units of the monomer ethylene terephthalate, with repeating C10H8O4 units.
पालतु is commonly recycled, और रै the क्रमांक `` 1 '' as इसके रीसाइक्लिंग प्रतीक.
Louisiana was admitted to the Union on April 30, 1812, and elects senators to Classes 2 and Class 3.
Its current senators are Democrat Mary Landrieu and रिपब्लिकन दाउद vitter.
Black pudding, blood pudding or blood sausage is a type of sausage made by कुकिंग रक्त or सूखी blood with a filler until it is thick enough to congeal when cooled.
The dish exists in various संस्कृतियों from Asia to Europe and the Americas.
Pig, cattle, sheep, duck, and goat blood can be used depending on different countries.
In Europe and the Americas, typical fillers include meat, fat, suet, bread, cornmeal, sweet potato, onion, chestnuts, जौ, और oatmeal.
In Spain, Portugal and Asia, potato is often replaced by rice.
शेयरधारक may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ), a person, group, organization, member or system who affects or can be affected by an organization 's actions
Stakeholder, an entity that can be affected by the परिणाम of that in which they are said to be stakeholders, i.e., that in which they have a stake.
Project stakeholder, a person, group or organization साथ an ब्याज in a project
Stakeholder theory, a theory that identifies and models the groups which are stakeholders of a निगम or project
Stakeholder analysis, the प्रक्रम of identifying those affected by a project or event
शेयरधारक ( law ), a third party who temporarily holds money or property while its owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9, 1925 - September 1, 2003 ) was an अमरीकी थिएटर and film director.
Smight was born in Minneapolis, मिनेसोटा and went to school with future actor Peter Graves.
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner, Rabbit, Run, Loving Couples, Midway, Harper, Airport 1975, Damnation Alley and the Emmy Award -winning Eddie, as well as many episodes of television series such as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour.
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th Cousin and composed the music for the film adaption of Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry.
Smight died from cancer in Los एंजिल्स, California.
dmitri ivanovich mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 February 1907 O.S. 27 January 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and inventor.
He formulated the Periodic Law, created उसके अपना संस्करण of the periodic table of elements, and used it to correct the properties of some already discovered elements and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ), officially the City of Modesto, is the काउंटी seat and largest city of Stanislaus County, California, United States.
With a जनसांख्यिकी of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 census, Modesto ranks as the 18th largest city in the state of California.
The modesto Census County Division, which includes the cities of Ceres and Riverbank, has a population of 312,842 as of 2010.
Modesto is located in the सेंट्रल घाटी area of Northern California, 90 miles north of Fresno, 92 miles east of San Francisco, 68 miles south of the state capital of Sacramento, 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park, and 24 miles south of Stockton.
Modesto, a 29-time Tree City USA honoree, is surrounded by rich farmland, lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production.
Led by milk, almonds, chickens, walnuts, and corn silage, the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 अरब in agricultural production in 2011.
modesto थी immortalized in the 1973 जार्ज लुकास फिल्मी अमरीकी graffiti.
The award winning film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' and friendship on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs.
Ron Howard, Harrison Ford और रिचर्ड dreyfuss starred in the film.
The soundtrack was a huge कामयाबी.
Director George Lucas is a native of Modesto, graduating from Downey High School in 1962.
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011, which interviews 1,000 participants daily and asks individuals to assess their jobs, finances, शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य, emotional state of mind and communities, ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed.
In December 2009, Forbes क्रमित modesto 48th out of 100 among `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck Cities ''.
In this ranking, Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability and travel time but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures.
Independence Day, commonly known as the Fourth of July, is a federal holiday in the United States commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Independence Day is commonly associated with fireworks, parades, barbecues, carnivals, fairs, picnics, concerts, baseball games, family reunions, and political speeches and ceremonies, in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the इतिहास, government, and traditions of the United States.
Independence Day is the national day of the संयुक्त States.
A लिंग symbol denotes the sex of an organism or characterizes an agent by gender.
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀ are derived from astrological symbols, denoting the शास्त्रीय ग्रह मंगल और शुक्र, क्रमशः.
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance also denoting elements in alchemy, specifically the metals iron and copper.
They were first used to denote the effective gender of plants ( i.e. sex of individual in a given crossbreed, since most plants are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751.
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a temporary right to hold land or property in which a lessee or a tenant holds rights of real property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord.
Although a tenant does hold rights to real property, a leasehold estate is typically माना personal property.
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or प्रॉपर्टी tenure where one party buys the right to occupy land or a building for a given length of time.
As lease is a legal estate, leasehold estate can be bought and sold on the open market.
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and thereafter held for an अनिर्धार्य length of time, and also differs from a tenancy where a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly.
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in decades or centuries ; a 99 year lease is quite common ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner.
Terms of the agreement are contained in a lease, which has elements of contract and property विधि intertwined.
The term estate for years may occasionally be used.
This refers to a leasehold estate for any specific period of time ( the word `` years '' is misleading ).
An estate for years is not automatically नवीनीकृत.
Colloquially, `` lease '' and `` leasing `` are often a formalization of a longer, specific period as compared with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the end of a short period.
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the World of the Pig Olivia ) is a British-American children 's animated television series produced by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books.
It is seen on Nick jr. in the US, Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland, and Disney जूनियर in Latin America and Brazil, Treehouse TV in Canada.
The show has won a silver अभिभावक ' Choice Award for its positive story lines and characters.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( bottom ) and caribbean ( top ), with canal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a ship canal in Panama that connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the Caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean.
The canal cuts across the Isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit for international maritime trade.
There are locks at each end to लिफ्ट जहाजों up to gatun Lake ( above sea-level ).
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the राशि of work required for the canal.
The वर्तमान locks are wide.
A third, wider लेन of locks is being built.
France began work on the canal in 1881, but had to stop because of engineering problems and high मृत्यु due to बीमारी.
The United States ( US ) later took over the project and took a decade to complete the canal in 1914, enabling ships to avoid the lengthy Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan.
One of the largest and most difficult engineering प्रोजेक्ट ever undertaken, the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half the time previously required.
The shorter, faster, safer route to the US West Coast and to nations in and along the Pacific Ocean allowed those places to become more integrated with the world economy.
During this time, ownership of the territory that is now the पनामा कनाल थी पहला Colombian, then French, and then American ; the United States completed the construction.
The canal was taken over in 1999 by the panamanian government, as long planned.
Annual traffic has risen इससे परिचय 1,000 जहाजों जब the कनाल खोली in 1914, to 14,702 बरतन in 2008, the latter measuring a कुल of 309.6 लाख पनामा canal/universal मापन प्रणाली ( pc/ums ) टन.
By 2008, more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the canal, many of them much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can transit the canal today are called Panamax.
The American Society of Civil Engineers has named the Panama Canal one of the seven wonders of the modern world.
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17, 1790 ) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
A noted polymath, Franklin was a leading author, printer, political theorist, politician, postmaster, scientist, संगीतकार, आविष्कारक, satirist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat.
As a वैज्ञानिक, he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity.
He invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the Franklin stove, a carriage odometer, and the glass 'armonica '.
He facilitated many civic organizations, including a fire department and a university.
Franklin earned the title of `` The First American '' for his early and indefatigable campaigning लिये औपनिवेशिक एकता ; as an author and spokesman in London for several colonies, then as the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation.
Franklin was foundational in defining the अमरीकी ethos as a विवाह of the practical values of thrift, hard work, education, community spirit, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment.
In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, `` In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of puritanism बगैर इसके दोषों, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat. ''
To Walter isaacson, this makes Franklin `` the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become. ''
Franklin, always proud of his working class roots, became a successful newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies.
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the Pennsylvania Chronicle, a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies.
He became wealthy publishing Poor Richard 's Almanack and The Pennsylvania गजट.
Franklin gained international renown as a scientist for his famous experiments in विद्युत and for his many inventions, especially the lightning rod.
He played a major role in establishing the University of Pennsylvania and was elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society.
Franklin became a national hero in America when he spearheaded the effort to have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act.
An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the विकास of धनात्मक franco-american relations.
लिये अनेक सालो he थी the अंग्रेजों postmaster लिये the colonies, जिससे सक्रिय उसे to नियत up the पहला नेशनल संचार संजाल.
He was active in community affairs, औपनिवेशिक और राज्य politics, as well as national and international affairs.
From 1785 to 1788, he served as governor of पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Toward the end of his life, he freed his slaves and became one of the most prominent abolitionists.
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and status as one of America 's most influential Founding Fathers, have seen Franklin honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the names of अनेक कस्बों, काउंटी, शैक्षणिक institutions, namesakes, and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death, countless cultural references.
Criminal Minds is an American police procedural television program that premiered September 22, 2005, on CBS.
The series फ़ॉलो a टोली of profilers from the FBI 's Behavioral Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico, Virginia.
The BAU is part of the FBI National Center for the Analysis of हिंसक Crime.
The show differs from many प्रक्रियात्मक dramas by focusing on profiling the criminal, rather than the crime itself.
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association with CBS Television Studios ( originally Paramount Network Television then CBS Paramount Network Television ) and ABC Studios ( originally Touchstone Television ).
CBS announced in October 2009 that Legacy Interactive would develop a video game based on the show.
The game would require players to examine crime scenes for clues to help solve murder mysteries.
The interactive puzzle game was released in 2012, but did not feature any of the voices of the दिखाएँ 's डाल, nor was the cast involved with the project.
On March 14, 2012, CBS renewed Criminal Minds for an eighth season, which premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana, written by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain.
The song was released as the first single इससे the group 's third and final studio album, In Utero, in 1993.
It was one of two songs from the album मिश्रित by स्कॉट litt in order to augment the original production by producer Steve Albini.
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single for sale in the United States, `` Heart-Shaped Box '' received much American radio airplay, reaching number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart.
The international release of the single reached number five on the UK Singles Chart.
The song 's music video, directed by Anton Corbijn, garnered critical plaudits.
The orbital speed of a body, generally a planet, a natural satellite, an artificial satellite, or a multiple star, is the speed at which it orbits around the barycenter of a system, usually around a more massive body.
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed, the average speed as it completes an orbit, or instantaneous orbital गति, the गति at a particular point in its orbit.
The orbital speed at कोई स्थिति in the कक्षा can be computed इससे the distance to the central body at that position, and the specific orbital energy, which is independent of position : the kinetic energy is the total energy minus the potential energy.
Brown Palace Interior और Atrium
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest ऑपरेटिंग hotel in Denver, Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built.
It is now operated by Quorum होटल and Resorts.
It was built in 1892, one year बाद than the Oxford Hotel.
It was named लिये इसके असली owner, Henry C. Brown, and was designed with its odd triangular shape by architect Frank Edbrooke.
The hotel is located at 321 17th St, Denver, CO between 17th Street, Broadway और tremont street/pl in downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza.
The main प्रवेश door is on Tremont Street.
DVD-Video is a उपभोक्ता video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, and is currently the dominant consumer video format in Asia, North America, Europe, and Australia.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a dvd खिलाड़ी, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video और ऑडियो of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
Typically, the data rate for DVD movies सीमाएँ इससे 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was first available for खुदरा around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
the specification is not publicly available, because every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain सूचना in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential.
The nautical mile ( प्रतीक m, NM or nmi ) is a unit of length that is about one minute of arc of latitude measured along any meridian, or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator.
By international अनुबंध it रै महरूम नियत at 1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for use in the International System of Units by the BIPM ) used especially by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries, and also in polar खोजी.
It is commonly प्रयुक्त in अंतरराष्ट्रीय law and treaties, especially regarding the limits of territorial waters.
it developed from the sea mile and the related geographical mile.
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air navigators worldwide because of its convenience when working with charts.
Most nautical charts use the Mercator projection whose scale varies by about a factor of six from the equator to 80° latitude, so charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale.
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of latitude on a chart, so a distance measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to nautical miles using the chart 's latitude scale.
Shippensburg is a borough in Cumberland and Franklin counties in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania.
Settled in 1730, Shippensburg lies in the Cumberland Valley, 41 miles ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, और is भाग of the harrisburg– carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In 1900, 3,228 people lived there ; in 1910, 3,457 ; and in 1940, 5,244 लोगों जिया there.
The population was 5,492 at the 2010 census.
Shippensburg was incorporated as a borough on January 21, 1819.
In the past, there were फर्नीचर factories, engine and pump works, and other industrial works located within the town.
Shippensburg is भी the home of The Beistle Company, the oldest and largest manufacturer of decorations and party goods, which sells its distinctive honeycomb paper decorations worldwide.
it is भी the स्थान of pague और fegan, the oldest लगातार संचालित हार्डवेयर स्टोर in पेन्सिलवेनिया.
In May 2012, Volvo Construction Equipment began a $ 100 million expansion project to लाओ its American headquarters to Shippensburg.
Shippensburg is also home to Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania, एक of 14 universities of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education.
Yearly the last full week of July, the Shippensburg जातियाँ मेला is held.
Begun in 1958, the fair bills itself as Pennsylvania 's largest bi-county fair.
The fair includes agricultural exhibits, a craft show, food vendors, and कार्निवल यात्राएँ amongst other things.
Every summer on the last Saturday of August, shippensburg holds the Corn Festival, an event that brings regional artisans and vendors to operate stands downtown.
The downtown is closed to traffic for at least 5 blocks for most of the day.
औसत उपस्थिति at the पर्व is अनुमानित at 60,000 - 70,000 प्रत्येक साल.
Black hairy tongue ( BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the tongue where the filiform papillae elongate with black or brown discoloration, giving a black and hairy appearance.
The appearance may be alarming, but it is a harmless condition.
Predisposing कारकों शामिल धूम्रपान, xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ), नरम आहार, ग़रीब मौखिक hygiene और निश्चित medications.
Management is by improving oral hygiene, especially scraping or brushing the tongue.
The IEEE 1394 interface is a serial bus interface standard for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data transfer.
It was developed in the late 1980s and early 1990s by Apple, who पुकारा it FireWire.
The 1394 interface is comparable to USB, and often those two technologies are considered together, though USB has more market share.
Apple first included FireWire in some of its 1999 models, and most Apple computers since the year 2000 have included FireWire ports, though, as of 2013, nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ).
The interface is also known by the brand i.LINK ( Sony ), and Lynx ( Texas यंत्र ).
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many applications, because of lower implementation costs and a simplified, more adaptable cabling system.
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane interface, though this is not as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the high-definition audio-video Network Alliance ( HANA ) standard connection interface for A/V ( audio/visual ) component communication and control.
FireWire is also available in wireless, fiber optic, and coaxial versions using the isochronous प्रोटोकॉल.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, vaughan is best known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble.
Together with वादक Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
With a करियर spanning seven years, Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold.
He थी born and raised in Dallas, Texas, and for a short period of time lived in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career, joining groups such as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band that eventually evolved into Double Trouble and regularly performed around ऑस्टिन.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, catching the attention of संगीतकारों दाउद Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in लॉस एंजिल्स to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record producer John Hammond Sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After कामयाब touring, the group released the albums, Could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed सफलतापूर्वक, vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released and earned them a Grammy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन Blues Performance.
on अगस्त 27, 1990, vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following a प्रदर्शन in ईस्ट ट्रॉय, विस्कॉन्सिन.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense स्टाइल was derived from a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians सहित अल्बर्ट King, Freddie King, Otis Rush, and Muddy Waters, and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
स्टीवी रे vaughan is widely माना to be एक of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये इससे the राज्य of टेक्सास.
gige redirects यहाँ.
लिये the camera protocol, see GigE vision.
In computer networking, gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 GigE ) is a term describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 bits प्रति दूसरी ), as पारिभाषित by the आईईईई 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into use beginning in 1999, gradually supplanting Fast Ethernet in wired local संजाल, जहाँ it performed considerably faster.
The cables and equipment are very similar to previous standards और यहूद बहुत आम and economical by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs are allowed by the specification, but full-duplex उपयोग with switches is much more common.
Intel pro/1000 GT PCI network interface card
The प्रमुख components of a stamp:
1. चित्र
2. perforations
3. denomination
4. Country name
A postage stamp is a small piece of पेपर that is purchased and displayed on an item of mail as evidence of payment of postage.
Typically, stamps are made from special paper, with a national नामांकन और denomination ( price ) on the face, and a gum adhesive on the reverse side.
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor and are used to pay for the costs involved in moving mail as well as other business necessities such as insurance and registration.
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a छोटी rectangle of varying proportions, though triangles or other shapes are occasionally used.
The stamp is affixed to an envelope or other postal cover ( i.e., packet, box, mailing cylinder ) that the customer wishes to send.
The item is then processed by the postal system, where a postmark, sometimes known as a cancellation mark, is usually applied over the stamp and cover ; this procedure marks the स्टैम्प as used, which prevents its reuse.
The postmark indicates the तिथि और point of origin of the mailing.
The mailed item is then delivered to the address that the customer has applied to the envelope or cover.
Postage stamps have facilitated the delivery of mail चूंकि the 1840s.
Before this time, ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ), usually made from wood or cork, were often used to frank the mail and confirm the payment of postage.
The पहला चिपकने postage स्टैम्प, commonly referred to as the पैनी ब्लैक, थी जारी in the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1840.
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, which in the जल्दी 19th सदी was in disarray and rife with corruption.
There are varying खाते of the inventor or inventors of the stamp.
Before the introduction of postage stamps, mail in the UK was paid for by the recipient, a system that was associated with an irresolvable problem : the costs of delivering mail were not recoverable by the postal service when recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items, and senders had no incentive to restrict the number, size, or weight of items sent, whether or not they would ultimately be paid for.
The postage stamp resolved this issue in a simple and elegant manner, साथ the additional benefit of room for an element of beauty to be introduced.
Later related आविष्कारों शामिल डाक स्टेशनरी ऐसे as prepaid-postage लिफाफे, पोस्ट ताश, lettercards, aerogrammes और wrappers, postage मीटर, और, अधिक recently, specialty बाक्स और लिफाफे provided फ़्री to the ग्राहक by the u.S. डाक सेवा लिये प्रधानता or एक्स्प्रेस mailing.
The postage stamp afforded convenience for both the mailer and postal officials, more efficiently recovered costs for the postal service, and ultimately resulted in a better, तेज़ postal system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, their use resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th और 20th सदियां.
Postage stamps during this era were the most popular way of paying for mail, but by the end of the 20th century were rapidly being eclipsed by the use of metered postage और bulk mailing by businesses. )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the last decade of the 20th century and the first decade of the 21st due to declining cost of long distance telephone communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had.
As postage stamps with their engraved imagery began to appear on a widespread basis, historians and collectors began to take notice.
The study of postage stamps and their use is referred to as philately.
Stamp collecting can be both a hobby and a form of historical study and reference, as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing प्रणालियों have सदा महरूम शामिल with the history of nations.
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a पब्लिक university in Birmingham in the U.S. state of Alabama.
Developing from an एक्सटेंशन बीच स्थापित in 1936, the संस्था became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 और is आज एक of तीन संस्थानों in the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा प्रणाली.
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions leading to bachelor 's, master 's, doctoral, and professional degrees in the social and behavioral sciences, the उदार कला, कारोबार, education, engineering, and health-related fields such as medicine, dentistry, optometry, nursing, and public health.
The स्कूल is highly renowned for its medical research and natural sciences programs.
The UAB Health System, one of the largest academic medical centers in the United States, is संबद्ध with the university.
UAB Hospital प्रायोजकों रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम in विभिन्न चिकित्सा specialties, सहित आतंरिक आयुर्विज्ञान, न्यूरोलॉजी, सर्जरी, radiology, और anesthesiology.
UAB Hospital is the only ACS verified Level I trauma center in Alabama, as rated by the American College of Surgeons Trauma Program.
UAB is the state 's largest employer, with more than 18,000 faculty and staff and over 53,000 jobs at the university and in the health प्रणाली.
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area and 1 in 33 jobs in the state of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB.
The university 's overall annual economic प्रभाव was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
In the fall of 2012, the University of Alabama at Birmingham enrolled 17,999 students from more than 110 देशों, including 1,605 freshmen.
There are plans to commence with an `` aggressive '' growth in enrollment at UAB.
The current UAB President is Dr. Ray L. Watts.
Tofu, also called bean curd, is a food made by coagulating सोया रस और तब दबाने the resulting curds into soft white blocks.
It is a component in many East Asian और Southeast Asian cuisines.
वहीँ हैं अनेक अलग किस्में of टोफू, सहित भैस टोफू और टोफू कि रै महरूम processed in कुछ रास्ता.
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be used in savory and sweet dishes.
It is often seasoned or marinated to suit the dish.
Tofu originated in ancient China some 2,000 years ago.
Chinese legend ascribes its invention to prince Liu An ( Chinese : 劉安 Liú Ān, 179–122 BC ).
Tofu and its production technique were introduced into Korea and then Japan during the Nara period.
It spread into other parts of East Asia as well.
इस स्प्रेड संभावित coincided साथ the स्प्रेड of buddhism क्युकी it is an महत्वपूर्ण सोर्स of प्रोटीन in the शाकाहारी आहार of ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism.
Li shizhen in the मिंग राजवंश वर्णित a विधि of बनाना टोफू in bencao gangmu.
Tofu has a low calorie गिनती, relatively large amounts of protein, and little fat.
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant used in manufacturing, may also be high in calcium and/or मैग्नीशियम.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee, known for being the one-time pet of American recording artist Michael Jackson, who bought the primate from a Texas research facility in the early 1980s.
The animal was a frequent travel companion to the singer, whose attachment to the animal led to media mockery and, among other factors, to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric.
During the Bad संसार Tour, for example, Jackson brought Bubbles with him to Japan, where they both drank tea with the mayor of Osaka.
बुलबुले was initially kept at the Jackson family 's home in Encino, Los Angeles, but was moved to Neverland Ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom, used the singer 's toilet, and ate candy in the Neverland movie theater.
In 2003 the पब्लिक सीखे कि, जैसे सब खिलाते chimpanzees, बुलबुले था matured into a विशाल और आक्रामक वयस्क chimp unsuitable as a साथी एनिमल.
He was sent to a California animal प्रशिक्षक, where he was reported to have attempted suicide.
When the trainer shut down his operation in 2004, Bubbles was moved to the Center for Great Apes, a sanctuary in Wauchula, Florida, where he has lived since 2005.
Muse are an English rock band from Teignmouth, Devon, जिससे formed in 1994.
The band consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals, lead guitar, piano, keyboards, keytar ), Christopher Wolstenholme ( bass, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of their 2006 album Black Holes and खुलासे, keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band.
Muse are known for their energetic and extravagant live performances and their fusion of many music genres, सहित स्पेस चट्टान, progressive rock, alternative rock, heavy metal, classical music and electronica.
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ), Origin of Symmetry ( 2001 ), Absolution ( 2003 ), Black Holes and Revelations ( 2006 ), The Resistance ( 2009 ) and the 2nd Law ( 2012 ).
They have also issued three live albums, Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ), which is also a compilation of B-sides, Absolution Tour ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007.
Black Holes and Revelations earned the band a Mercury Prize nomination and a third place finish in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006.
Muse have भी जीती a संग्रहण of music awards throughout their history, including five MTV Europe Music Awards, six Q Awards, eight NME Awards, two Brit Awards —winning `` Best British Live Act '' twice, an MTV Video Music Award, four Kerrang !
Awards और an American Music Award.
They were also nominated for five Grammy Awards, of which they won Best Rock Album, for उनके पांचवां स्टुडियो album The Resistance ( 2009 ).
Muse have sold over 15 million एल्बम worldwide.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the capital city of the Free State Province of South Africa ; and, as the judicial capital of the स्वदेश, एक of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's तीन national capitals – the other two being Cape Town, the legislative capital, and Pretoria, the administrative capital.
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as `` the city of roses ``, owing to the abundance of these flowers and the annual rose festival held there.
The city 's Sesotho name is Mangaung, meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it has been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000.
Bloemfontein is situated on dry grassland at, at an altitude of above sea level.
The city is home to 369,568 residents, while the Mangaung Local Municipality has a population of 645,455.
Where Do We Come इससे ?
What हैं We ?
Where Are We Going ?
One of Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin 's most famous paintings.
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance of जीवन or existence in general.
It can also be expressed in different फ़ॉर्म, such as `` Why are we here ? ``, `` What is life all about ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
It has been the subject of much philosophical, scientific, and theological अटकलें throughout history.
There have महरूम a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many different cultural and ideological backgrounds.
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness, and borders on many other issues, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the existence of one or multiple Gods, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife.
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe, exploring the context and parameters concerning the 'how ' of life.
Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of नैतिकता.
An alternative, humanistic दृष्टिकोण मुद्राएँ the question `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
The value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide with the achievement of ultimate reality, or a feeling of oneness, or even a feeling of sacredness.
Family Guy creator सेठ macfarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, Brian Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features five main voice actors, and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice actors include पैट्रिक Warburton, Adam West, John G. Brennan, Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast members provide voices for multiple characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the various character personalities on the दिखाएँ, चित्रण प्रेरणा from celebrities and pop culture.
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one कर्ता, बाद सदस्यों of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production, though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
1911 उदाहरण by Edmund Dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` The Princess on the Pea '' ) is a literary fairy tale by Hans ईसाई andersen about a young woman whose royal identity is established by a test of her physical sensitivity.
The tale was first प्रकाशित with three others by Andersen in an inexpensive booklet on 8 May 1835 in Copenhagen by C.A. Reitzel.
Andersen had heard the story as a child, and it likely has its source in folk material, possibly originating from स्वीडन as it is अनजान in the Danish oral tradition.
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's अन्य किस्से of 1835 were well received by Danish critics, who disliked their casual, chatty style, and their lack of morals.
in 1959 `` the राजकुमारी और the मटर '' थी adapted to the musical स्टेज in a उत्पादन पुकारा एकबार upon a गद्दा अभिनीत कैरोल burnett.
German Americans ( ) हैं नागरिकों of the United States who were either born in Germany or are of German ancestry.
They comprise about 50 million people, making them the largest ancestry group ahead of Irish Americans, African अमेरिकी और अंग्रेज़ी Americans.
They comprise about 1/3 of the German diaspora सब over the world.
None of the German राज्य had New World colonies.
Not until the 1670s did the first significant groups of German आप्रवासियों arrive in the British colonies, settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania.
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the 19th century, with some eight million arrivals from Germany.
They were pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom, and pushed out of Europe by shortages of land and religious or political oppression.
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom, others for economic opportunities greater than those in Europe, and others simply for the chance to start fresh in the New World.
The आमद पहले 1850 यहूद ज़्यादातर किसानो जो sought आउट the सबसे उत्पादक जमीन, जहाँ उनके intensive खेती तकनीकों होता अदा बंद.
बाद 1840, अनेक आए to शहरों, जहाँ `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon उभरा.
German Americans established the first kindergartens in the United States, introduced the Christmas tree tradition, and originated popular American foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers.
German American celebrations are held throughout the country, one of the most well-known being the German-American Steuben Parade in New York City, held every third Saturday in September.
There are also major annual कार्यक्रम in शिकागो, Cincinnati, Milwaukee, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and other cities.
जैसे अनेक अन्य आप्रवासियों that came to the United States, an overwhelming number of people of German or partial German descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the संविधान 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
as the phrase, `` we the लोगों '' suggests कि the नई सरकारी originates इससे the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य और it सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों और समता among सब लोगों ; इस can be देखी सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism और सोशल democracy.
The history of the Internet began with the development of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California, Los Angeles ( UCLA ), after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, Tymnet, and Telenet, were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in which multiple separate networks could be joined together into a network of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized, and consequently, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, called the Internet, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce, including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online information, कॉमर्स, entertainment, and social networking.
Southwest Airlines Co. ( ) is a major U.S. airline and the संसार 's largest low-cost carrier, headquartered in Dallas, Texas.
It was established in 1967 and adopted its current name in 1971.
the एयरलाइन रै अधिक than 46,000 कर्मचारी और operates अधिक than 3,400 फ़्लाइट प्रति दिन.
As of June 5, 2011, it carries the most domestic यात्री of any U.S. airline.
As of April 2013, Southwest Airlines has scheduled सेवा to 84 destinations in 41 states and Puerto Rico.
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s, मगर for a few years in the 1970s and 1980s, when it operated Boeing 727s.
As of August 2012, Southwest is the largest operator of the 737 worldwide with over 550 in service, प्रत्येक ऑपरेटिंग an average of six flights per day.
in may 2011, the एयरलाइन acquired airtran एयरवेज़, साथ संयोजन of the वाहक अपेक्षित to be पूरा by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the company was issued a single operating प्रमाणपत्र, technically becoming one airline.
Rolling चट्टान is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing Company.
Although founded as a local beer in Western Pennsylvania, it was marketed aggressively and eventually became a national product.
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis, Missouri, in mid 2006, which transferred brewing operations to New Jersey.
Benedict XVI (,, ; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger on 16 April 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the Catholic Church.
He served as Pope from 2005 to 2013.
In that position, he was both the leader of the Catholic Church and Sovereign of the Vatican City State.
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated his Papal Inauguration Mass on 24 April 2005, and took possession of his cathedral, the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran, on 7 May 2005.
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria, Ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958.
After a long career as an academic, serving as a professor of धर्मशास्त्र at अनेक जर्मनी universities—the last being the University of Regensburg, where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977, an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience.
In 1981, he settled in Rome when he became prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
From 2002 until his election as pope, he was also Dean of the College of Cardinals, and as such, the primus inter pares among the cardinals.
Prior to becoming pope, he थी `` a प्रमुख फिगर on the वेटिकन stage for a quarter of a century '' as `` one of the most respected, influential and controversial members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants.
He was originally a liberal theologian, but adopted conservative views after 1968.
His prolific writings defend traditional Catholic doctrine and values.
During his papacy, Benedict XVI advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased secularisation of many Western countries.
He views relativism 's denial of objective truth, and the denial of moral truths in particular, as the सेंट्रल प्रॉब्लम of the 21st century.
He सिखाया the महत्व of दोनो the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और an समझना of परमेश्वर 's redemptive प्रेम.
Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position.
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art, viewing the use of beauty as a path to the sacred, promoted the use of Latin, and reintroduced traditional papal garments, for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
He has been described as `` the main intellectual force in the Church '' since the mid-1980s.
Several of Pope Benedict 's students from his academic career हैं भी prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him, notably Christoph Schönborn.
On 11 February 2013, पोप बेनेडिक्ट घोषित उसके इस्तीफा in a वाक in लैटिन पहले the कार्डिनल्स, citing a `` कमी of शक्ति of दिमाग और देह '' due to उसके उन्नत आयु.
उसके इस्तीफा became प्रभावी on 28 फ़रवरी 2013.
He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415, and the first to do so on his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294.
As pope emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His Holiness, and the title of Pope, and will continue to dress in the papal colour of white.
He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013, and he moved into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope with original test चित्र.
Used by सैन्य to examine stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs.
View of Boston, c. 1860 ; an early stereoscopic card for viewing a scene from nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus and sets of stereo slides.
Patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic photographs, painting by Jacob Spoel, before 1868.
A very जल्दी depiction of people using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for creating or enhancing the illusion of depth in an image by means of stereopsis for binocular vision.
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` कड़, ठोस '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to look '', `` to see ''.
Most stereoscopic methods उपस्थित two offset images separately to the left and right eye of the viewer.
These two-dimensional images are then combined in the brain to दे the perception of 3D depth.
इस तकनीक is विशिष्ट इससे 3d प्रदर्शक कि प्रदर्शक an चित्र in तीन पूरा आयाम, allowing the निरीक्षक to बढ़ाएँ सूचना परिचय the 3-dimensional वस्तुएँ होने प्रदर्शित by सिर और नजर आंदोलनों.
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States.
An American Founding Father, he was a statesman, diplomat, and a leading advocate of American स्वतंत्रता इससे Great Britain.
Well educated, he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of the American Revolution.
A lawyer और पब्लिक फिगर in बोस्टन, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, he निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका in persuading कॉंग्रेस to घोषित स्वतंत्रता.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, and was its primary advocate in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain, and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and इतिहासकार, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government, influenced American political thought.
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the jeffersonian republicans, as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
the प्रमुख accomplishment of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the फेस of हैमिल्टन 's विपक्ष.
In 1800, Adams was defeated for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts.
He later resumed his friendship with Jefferson.
He and his wife, Abigail Adams, founded an accomplished family line of politicians, diplomats, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams, the sixth President of the United States.
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times, though his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the building that eventually became known as the White House.
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse.
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills.
The other is Benjamin Franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) who was not born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In addition, kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter. )
All $ 10 bills issued today are संघीय Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of नक्काशी और मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to पहनें.
लगभग 6 % of सब us banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 यहूद $ 10 बिल्स.
Ten dollar बिल्स are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps.
The सोर्स of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of वुडरो विल्सन facing to the बाएँ, लकिन थी प्रयुक्त only for intra-government transactions ).
A rider on a Yamaha Waverunner XL performing a high-speed turn.
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a जेट of जल ejected from the back of the craft.
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or behind the boat, a jetboat draws the water from under the boat into a pump inside the boat, then expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats were originally designed by सर विलियम हैमिल्टन ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) for operation in the fast-flowing and shallow rivers of New Zealand, specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes, generally due to the inefficient design of the units and the fact कि they offered few advantages over conventional propellers.
Unlike these previous waterjet developments, such as Campini 's and the Hanley Hydrojet, Hamilton had a specific need for a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow water, and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From this, the popularity of the jet unit and jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it was found the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers for a wide range of vessel types, and as such, waterjets are used widely today for many high-speed vessels, including passenger ferries, rescue craft, patrol boats and offshore supply vessels.
Jetboats are highly maneuverable, and many can, from full speed, be reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their own लंबाई, in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop ''.
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is cut, the steering is turned sharply and the throttle opened again, causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large spray of water.
There is no engineering limit to the size of jetboats, though the validity of their use depends a lot on the प्रकार of application.
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at low speeds, up to about, but as नाव गति increases beyond this, the extra hull resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( etc. ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ).
Also, in परिस्थितियों with very large propellers turning at slow speeds ( such as tug boats ), the equivalent size waterjet would be too big to be practical.
For these reasons, the vast majority of waterjet units are installed in high-speed vessels and in particular situations where shallow draught, maneuverability, and लोड लचीलापन हैं प्रमुख concerns.
The biggest jet-driven vessels are found in military use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry उद्योग.
South Africa 's s ( लगभग long ) are the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far.
Even these German-built vessels are capable of performing `` crash stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly पारिभाषित as inflammation of the uvea.
the uvea consists of the middle, pigmented, vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris, ciliary body, and choroid.
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and thorough examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist along with urgent treatment to कंट्रोल the inflammation.
Eric `` E. ''
Murphy is a fictional character on the comedy-drama television series Entourage.
He is निभाई by Kevin Connolly.
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror film produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick, co-written with novelist Diane Johnson, and starring Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall, Scatman Crothers, and Danny Lloyd.
The film is based on the स्टीफन King novel The Shining.
A writer, Jack Torrance, takes a जॉब as an off-season caretaker at an isolated hotel.
His young son possesses psychic abilities and is able to see things from the past and future, such as the भूत जो inhabit the hotel.
Soon after settling in, the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm, and Jack gradually becomes influenced by a supernatural presence ; he descends into दीवानगी और attempts to murder his wife and son.
नापसंद पिछला kubrick films, जिससे विकसित an दर्शक धीरे by भवन on word-of-mouth, the जगमगाता थी released as a mass-market फिल्मी, खोलने at पहला in बस दो शहरों on मेमोरियल दिन, तब देशभर a month later.
Although initial response to the फिल्मी थी mixed, later critical assessment was more favorable and it is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre.
Film director Martin Scorsese, लिखने in the रोज़ जानवर, ranked it as one of the 11 scariest horror movies of all time.
Film critics, film students, and Kubrick 's producer, Jan harlan, have remarked on the enormous influence the film has had on popular culture.
The initial European release of the जगमगाता थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the American version, achieved by removing most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel.
आँगन Cola Bottle
Patio Diet Cola was a brand of diet soda introduced by Pepsi in 1963.
It was निर्मित in response to Diet Rite Cola, which was the first diet cola on the market.
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake was आँगन आहार Cola 's spokesperson.
In 1964, Patio released orange, grape, and root beer flavors.
This flavor line was not meant to compete with brands like Orange Crush, but rather fill out the लकीर.
Patio sodas were available in the cold-bottle market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores.
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the time, bottlers were regionally franchised, and related advertising was necessarily local.
In 1964, Patio diet cola became आहार Pepsi.
The newly branded diet soda was advertised alongside Pepsi with the tagline `` Pepsi either way '', which replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor ''.
The short life span of Patio Diet cola makes it a great addition for bottle collectors.
Most of the remaining Patio line of flavors were phased out by the early 1970s, while a few survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic physical and organizational structures needed for the operation of a समाज or enterprise, or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function.
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural elements that provide framework supporting an entire structure of विकास.
It is an महत्वपूर्ण term for judging a country or region 's development.
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society, such as roads, bridges, water supply, sewers, electrical grids, telecommunications, and so forth, and can be defined as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable, sustain, or enhance societal living conditions. ''
Viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services, and also the distribution of finished products to markets, as well as basic social services such as schools and hospitals ; for example, roads enable the transport of raw materials to a factory.
In military parlance, the term refers to the buildings and permanent installations necessary for the support, redeployment, and operation of military शक्तियां.
To मेक it simple, infrastructure is anything that is needed everyday, an everyday item.
A graphical representation of the ideal human karyotype
Mitochondrial DNA.
Human जेनेटिक विभिन्नता is the जेनेटिक मतभेद दोनो भीतर और among populations.
There may be multiple variants of any given gene in the human population ( genes ), leading to polymorphism.
Many genes are not polymorphic, meaning that only a single allele is present in the population : the gene is then said to be fixed.
No two humans are genetically एकसमान.
Even monozygotic twins, who develop from one zygote, have infrequent genetic differences due to mutations occurring during development and gene copy number variation.
Differences between individuals, even closely related individuals, are the key to techniques such as genetic fingerprinting.
alleles occur at different frequencies in different human populations, with populations that are more geographically and ancestrally remote tending to differ more.
Causes of मतभेद between individuals include the exchange of genes during meiosis and various mutational events.
There are at least two reasons क्यों जेनेटिक variation exists between populations.
Natural selection may confer an adaptive advantage to individuals in a specific environment if an allele provides a प्रतिस्पर्धी advantage.
Alleles under selection are likely to occur only in those geographic regions जहाँ वे confer an advantage.
The second main cause of genetic variation is due to the high degree of neutrality of most mutations.
Most mutations do not appear to have any selective effect one way or the other on the organism.
The main cause is genetic drift, this is the effect of random changes in the gene pool.
In humans, founder प्रभाव और पास्ट छोटी जनसांख्यिकी आकार ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have had an important influence in neutral differences between populations.
the सिद्धान्त कि इंसानो recently migrated आउट of अफ़्रीकी supports इस.
The study of human genetic variation has both evolutionary significance and चिकित्सा applications.
It can help scientists understand ancient human population migrations as well as how different human groups are biologically related to one another.
For medicine, study of human genetic variation may be important because some disease-causing alleles occur more प्रायः in people from specific geographic regions.
New findings दिखाएँ that each human has on average 60 new mutations compared to their parents.
Apart from mutations, many genes that may have aided humans in ancient times plague humans today.
For example, it is suspected that genes that allow इंसानो to more efficiently process food are those that make people susceptible to obesity and diabetes today.
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol और the नेशनल मॉल at the Taxpayer March on Washington on September 12, 2009.
The Tea Party movement is an American political movement that advocates strict adherence to the United States Constitution, reducing U.S. government बिता और कर, and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit.
The गति रै महरूम पुकारा partly conservative, partly libertarian, and partly populist.
The movement has प्रायोजित विरोध और supported political candidates since 2009.
the नाम of the गति is निकला इससे the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी of 1773, an iconic इवेंट in अमरीकी इतिहास.
Anti-tax protesters in the United States have often referred to the original Boston Tea Party for inspiration.
References to the Boston Tea Party were part of Tax Day protests held throughout the 1990s and earlier.
By 2001, a custom had developed among some conservative activists of mailing चाय बैग to विधायक and other officials as a symbolic act.
The currencies of Puerto Rico closely follow the historic development of Puerto Rico.
As a colony of Spain and the United States, Puerto Rico was granted the use of both foreign and provincial currencies.
Following the Spanish colonization in 1502, Puerto Rico became an important port, with its own supply of gold.
However, as the mineral reserves ran empty within the century, the archipelago 's economy suffered.
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado Mexicano, which meant that a semi-regular shipment of सुनहरा इससे the Viceroyalty of New Spain would be sent to the island, as a way to provide economic support.
Between 1636 and 1637, Philip IV of स्पेन imposed a tax which had to be paid using a revenue stamp.
Inspired by this, Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766, becoming the first colony to print 8- real banknotes in the Spanish Empire and which in the Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues.
The situado was discontinued during the 19th century, creating an economic crisis, as a result of Mexico gaining its independence from Spain.
Salvador Meléndez Bruna, the colonial governor in office, ordered the issue of provincial banknotes, creating the Puerto Rican peso.
However, printing of these banknotes ceased बाद 1815.
During the following decades, foreign coins became the widespread currency.
In the 1860s and 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
On February 1, 1890, the Banco Español de Puerto Rico was inaugurated and began issuing banknotes.
the बैंको designed चार श्रेणी और लगाई तीन in परिसंचरण अंतर्गत स्पेनी नियम.
In 1895, a Royal डिक्री ordered the production of provincial peso coins.
On August 13, 1898, the Spanish-American War ended with Spain ceding Puerto Rico to the United राज्य.
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico and issued bills equivalent to the United States dollar, creating the Puerto Rican dollar.
In 1902, the पहला National Bank of Porto Rico issued banknotes in a parallel manner.
Two more श्रेणी were issued until 1913.
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated into the United States ' economic and monetary system, the Puerto Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury.
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues, including commemorative banknotes, private currency, and a quarter coin designed with Fort San Felipe del Morro in the face.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on अगस्त 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
The Book of Ezekiel is the third of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, following the books of Isaiah and Jeremiah and preceding the Book of the Twelve.
( the अनुक्रम is somewhat different in the Christian Old Testament ).
It derives its name from, and records the visions of, the 6th century BC priest and prophet Ezekiel.
According to the book, the prophet, exiled in Babylon, experienced a series of seven visions during the 22 years from 593 to 571 BC, a period which spans the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586.
The visions, and the book, are संरचित around three themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the nations ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ).
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major United States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. Census.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined Statistical Area, a larger trading area, था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,214,932.
The city is named after Orléans, a city located on the Loire River in Centre, France, and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine, music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ), and its annual celebrations and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is often referred to as the `` most अद्वितीय '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The city and Orleans मोहल्ला ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the east, Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of which is included in the city limits, lies to the north and Lake Borgne lies to the east.
The National जनम कंट्रोल League was a birth control organization in the United States.
It was founded in कूच 1915 by Mary Dennett, Clara Gruening Stillman and Jessie Ashley.
Its main purpose was to overturn the laws जिससे बैन contraceptives from the U.S. mails.
Campaigns were mounted in New York, but in 1919 the League was disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary parenthood League.
Cancer, known medically as a malignant neoplasm, is a broad group of various diseases, all involving unregulated cell growth.
In cancer, cells divide and grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade nearby parts of the body.
The cancer may also spread to more distant parts of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
Not all tumors are cancerous.
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably, do not invade neighboring tissues, and do not spread throughout the body.
There are over 200 different known cancers that afflict इंसानो.
Determining कया कल्याणकारी cancer is complex.
Many things are known to increase the risk of cancer, including tobacco use, certain infections, radiation, lack of physical activity, obesity, and environmental pollutants.
ये can सीधे क्षति genes or combine with existing genetic faults within cells to cause the disease.
लगभग पाँच to टेन percent of cancers are entirely hereditary.
Cancer can be detected in a क्रमांक of ways, including the presence of certain signs and symptoms, screening tests, or medical imaging.
Once a possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic examination of a tissue sample.
Cancer is usually treated with chemotherapy, radiation therapy and सर्जरी.
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and स्थान of the cancer and the extent of disease at the start of treatment.
While cancer can affect people of all ages, and a few types of cancer are more common in children, the risk of developing cancer generally increases with age.
In 2007, cancer caused परिचय 13 % of all human deaths worldwide ( 7.9 million ).
Rates are rising as more people live to an old age and as mass lifestyle changes occur in the developing world.
Spring ski touring on Hardangervidda, Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity and competitive sport in which the participant attaches long runners or skis to boots or shoes on the feet and uses them to travel on top of snow.
Aside from recreation and competition, skiing has been used for military purposes and even travelling in क्षेत्रों that experience heavy snowfall.
Many types of competitive skiing events are recognized by the International Olympic Committee, and the International Ski Federation.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes, CB, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 अप्रैल 1946 ) थी a अंग्रेजों economist whose ideas have fundamentally affected the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics, and informed the economic policies of governments.
He built on and greatly refined पहले work on the causes of business cycles, and is widely considered to be one of the founders of modern macroeconomics and the most influential economist of the 20th century.
His ideas are the basis for the स्कूल of thought known as Keynesian economics, as well as its various offshoots.
In many ways, subsequent developments in 20th century economics can be viewed as either building on Keynes ' ideas or reacting against them.
In the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking, overturning the पुरानी विचार of neoclassical economics that held that free markets would, in the short to medium term, automatically provide full employment, as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands.
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand determined the overall level of economic activity, and कि अपर्याप्त कुल माँग could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment.
He advocated the use of fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate the adverse effects of economic recessions and depressions.
Following the outbreak of the Second World War, Keynes 's ideas concerning economic policy were adopted by अग्रणी Western economies.
In 1942, Keynes was awarded a hereditary peerage as Baron Keynes of Tilton in the County of Sussex.
Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s and 1960s the कामयाबी of keynesian अर्थशास्त्र resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of problems that began to afflict the Anglo-American economies from the start of the decade, and partly because of critiques from Milton Friedman and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy.
However, the advent of the global वित्तीय संकट in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken in response to the crisis by Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, and other heads of governments.
In 1999, Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 most important and influential people of the 20th century, commenting that : `` His radical idea that governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
In addition to being an economist, Keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the British Eugenics Society, a director of the Bank of England, a patron of the arts and an art collector, a part of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals, an advisor to अनेक charitable trusts, a लेखक, a philosopher, a private investor, and a farmer.
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 Ten आयतें at the Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue.
The Ten Commandments, also known as the Decalogue, are a set of biblical laws relating to ethics and worship, which play a fundamental भूमिका in judaism, islam और christianity.
They include instructions to worship only God, to keep the sabbath holy and prohibitions against idolatry, blasphemy, murder, theft, deception and adultery.
Different groups follow थोड़ा अलग traditions for interpreting and numbering them.
The Ten Commandments appear twice in the Hebrew Bible, in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy.
According to the story in Exodus, God inscribed them on two stone tablets, which he gave to Moses on माउंट Sinai.
Modern scholarship has found likely influences in Hittite and Mesopotamian कानून और treaties, but is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them.
The discography of the English alternative rock band The smiths consists of चार स्टुडियो एल्बम, एक विस्तारित play ( EP ), one live album, ten compilation albums, twenty singles, one video album and fourteen music videos on the Rough Trade, Sire and WEA record labels.
The band was formed in 1982 in Manchester by vocalist Morrissey, guitarist Johnny Marr, bass player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce.
Despite being championed by BBC Radio 1 disc jockey John Peel, the band 's debut single, `` Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ), failed to chart.
Its follow-up, `` This आकर्षक man `` ( October 1983 ), met with critical acclaim and reached number twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart.
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984, as वे reached number twelve in the UK with the `` What Difference Does It Make ? `` single and reached number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
Their next three singles all reached the top twenty of the charts in the UK, helping to consolidate their previous chart success.
The next studio album, Meat Is Murder ( 1985 ), reached the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों चार्ट ; however, the only single to be released from the album, `` That Joke Is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ), failed to break the UK Top 40.
Returning to form, The Smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than number thirty in the UK and their third album, The Queen Is Dead ( 1986 ), reached number two in the UK.
despite the band 's chart success, Marr left the group in August 1987 due to a strained relationship with Morrissey.
Failing to find a replacement, The Smiths disbanded by the time their final studio album, Strangeways, यहाँ We Come, was released in September that year.
Strangeways, Here We Come reached number two in the UK and became the band 's highest-charting release in the United States when it reached number fifty-five on the बिलबोर्ड 200.
in जल्दी 1992, wea acquired the संपूर्ण वापस कैटलॉग of the smiths और उत्पादित दो compilations – बेहतरीन... i और... बेहतरीन ii – the पहला of जिससे पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the uk एल्बम Chart.
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 और 2001, साथ a further compilation, The Sound of The Smiths, released in November 2008.
Gone with the Wind is a novel written by मार्गरेट मिशेल, first published in 1936.
It is often placed in the literary sub-genre of the ऐतिहासिक romance novel.
However, it has been argued the novel is a `` near miss '' and does not contain all of the elements of the romance genre, making it simply a historical novel.
The story is set in Clayton County, Georgia, and Atlanta दौरान the American Civil War and Reconstruction.
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner, who must use every means at her disposal to come out of the poverty she finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea ''.
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone with the Wind in 1926 to pass the time while recovering इससे an auto-crash injury that refused to heal.
In April 1935, Harold Latham of Macmillan, an editor who was looking for new fiction, read what she had written and saw that it could be a best-seller.
After Latham agreed to publish the book, Mitchell worked for another six महीने checking the historical references, and rewrote the opening chapter several times.
Mitchell and her husband John दलदल, a copy editor by trade, edited the final version of the novel.
मिशेल wrote the book 's final moments first, and then wrote the events that led up to it.
As to what became of her lovers, Rhett and Scarlett, after the novel ended, Mitchell did not know, and said, `` For all I know, Rhett may have found someone else who was less difficult. ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer Prize for fiction लिये the book in 1937.
The किताब was adapted into a 1939 American film.
Gone with the Wind is the only novel by Mitchell published during her आजीवन.
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is one of the dental specialties recognized by the American Dental Association, Royal College of Dentists of Canada, and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons, and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth.
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures including endodontic therapy ( commonly known as `` root canal therapy '' ), endodontic retreatment, सर्जरी, treating cracked teeth, and treating dental trauma.
Root कनाल चिकित्सा is एक of the सबसे आम प्रक्रियाओं.
If the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic tissue, and fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or injured, endodontic treatment is required to save the tooth.
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol that moves data to and from computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives.
SAS replaces the older Parallel SCSI ( सुनाया `` scuzzy '' ) bus technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, like its पूर्ववर्ती, uses the standard SCSI command set.
SAS offers backward compatibility with second-generation sata drives.
SATA 3 gbit/s ड्राइव may be कनेक्ट to SAS backplanes, but SAS drives can not connect to SATA backplanes.
The T10 तकनीकी committee of the International Committee for Information Technology Standards ( INCITS ) develops and maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology.
Part of the constitutional provision as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य is एक of the पात्रता आवश्यकताएँ स्थापित in the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान लिये चुनाव to the दफ्तर of अध्यक्ष or वाइस अध्यक्ष.
This आवश्यकता थी intended to protect the nation from foreign influence.
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born citizen, and various राय have महरूम offered over time regarding its precise meaning.
A 2011 Congressional Research सेवा report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several decisions of the United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with the question of eligibility for citizenship by birth, but the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen.
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born जून 22, 1971 ) is a former American football player.
He played quarterback for three National Football League ( NFL ) teams : the St. Louis Rams, the New York Giants, and the Arizona Cardinals.
He was originally signed by the Green खाड़ी पैकर्स as an undrafted free agent in 1994 after playing college football at Northern Iowa.
Warner would go on to be considered the best undrafted player of all time, following a 12-year career regarded as one of the greatest stories in NFL history.
Warner first attained stardom while playing for the St. Louis Rams from 1998 to 2003, where he won two NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV.
He led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super Bowl XLIII ( the franchise 's first Super Bowl berth ), and owns the three highest single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history.
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ), and the third-highest career पूर्णता प्रतिशत in NFL history with 65.5 %.
In 13 career playoff games, Warner ranks first all-time in completion percentage ( 66.5 % ), yards per attempt ( 8.55 ), और दूसरी in passer rating ( 102.8 ).
He also holds the उच्चतम पूर्णता प्रतिशत लिये a सिंगल खेल दौरान the नियमित ऋतु, at 92.3 प्रतिशत ( 24/26 ), on सितंबर 20, 2009, विरूद्ध the jacksonville jaguars.
He announced his retirement on जनवरी 29, 2010. < ref name='CNN 2010-01-29 ' >
जेनेट काय ruthven hagan ( ; born may 26, 1953 ) is the जूनियर संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर इससे उत्तर कैरोलिना, in office since January 2009.
Previously she served in the North Carolina Senate from 1999 to 2009.
She is a सदस्य of the Democratic Party and is viewed as a moderate member of her party.
When Hagan defeated Republican incumbent Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 United States Senate election, वो became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election.
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ), is awarded annually to the player deemed the most outstanding player in collegiate football.
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's एथलेटिक director, John Heisman ( former Brown University and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football coach at Oberlin College, Auburn University, Clemson University, Rice University, and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football, basketball, and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ).
The award is presented by the Heisman Trophy Trust in early December before the postseason bowl games.
It is the oldest of several overall awards in college football, including the मैक्सवेल Award, Walter Camp Award, and the AP Player of the Year.
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding player, while the Maxwell Award and Walter Camp Award recognize the best player, and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable player.
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the unified command structure for the multinational military forces supporting the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War.
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded South Korea on June 25, 1950, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 82 calling on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel.
On June 27, 1950, it adopted Resolution 83, recommending that members of the United Nations provide assistance to the Republic of Korea `` to repel the हथियारबंद आक्रमण and to restore international peace and security to the area ''.
Security Council Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, recommended that members providing military forces and other assistance to South Korea `` make such forces and other assistance available to a unified command under the United States of America ''.
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were `` United Nations forces '', and United Nations itself could be considered a belligerent, in practice the United Nations exercised no control over the combat forces, which were controlled by the United States.
Most observers concluded that the forces under the UNC यहूद नहीं in विधि संयुक्त Nations troops, and the acts of the UNC were not the acts of the United Nations.
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance of national armies, operating under the collective right of self-defense.
On August 29, 1950, the British Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry Brigade arrived at Busan to join the UNC, which until तब शामिल तभी ROK and U.S. forces.
The 27th Brigade moved into the Naktong River लकीर वेस्ट of Daegu.
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in रैपिड succession ; Australia, Belgian United Nations Command, Canada, Colombia, Ethiopia, France, Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, Thailand and Turkey.
The Union of दक्षिण Africa provided air units which fought alongside the air forces of other member nations.
Denmark, इण्डिया, Norway, and Sweden provided medical units.
Italy provided a hospital, even though it was not a UN member.
The United Nations Command and the Chinese-North Korean Command हस्ताक्षरित the कोरियाई armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953, ending the heavy fighting.
The armistice agreement स्थापित the सैन्य Armistice Commission ( MAC ), consisting of representatives of the two signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms.
The North Korean-Chinese MAC has been replaced by Panmumjon प्रतिनिधि अंतर्गत विशेष उत्तर Korean management.
नियमित बैठक have महरूम रोका, हालांकि ड्यूटी अधिकारियों of संयुक्त सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल, commonly ज्ञात as the युद्धविराम गाँव of panmunjom, इससे प्रत्येक पक्ष मिलें regularly.
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton, a Mission Vista police officer who moves his family back to his old पड़ोस, Lincoln Heights, to start a new life and to help out his old neighborhood.
It is a dangerous place to raise a family, and through the many trials the family goes through, they soon learn that settling in is not as easy as it seems.
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life as a street cop in Los Angeles, his kids try to fit in at their new schools and with their new neighbors.
The show premiered जनवरी 8, 2007 on the ABC Family network with 13 episodes ordered for the first season.
It was approved for a second season, which premiered September 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' song, Say OK had been used in a commercial to promote the second season.
to प्रचार the तीसरा ऋतु, वे दिखाया क्लिप्स of cassie और चार्ल्स 's संबंध to the सोंग, crush by the अमरीकी आइडल 's सातवाँ ऋतु runner-up, David Archuleta.
To promote season 4, they 're using the song, Avalanche by Marie Digby.
The show 's थीम सोंग थी लिखा and performed by bassist Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard.
On January 29, 2010, ABC Family announced the cancellation of the series after four seasons.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a common name, structure, and doctrine within Christianity.
In the Orthodox tradition, churches are divided often along ethnic and linguistic lines, into separate churches and traditions.
Technically, विभाजन between एक समूह और another हैं पारिभाषित by doctrine और गिरिजाघर प्राधिकार.
Issues such as the nature of Jesus, the authority of apostolic succession, eschatology, and papal primacy separate one denomination from another.
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members, over half of all Christians worldwide, बनाना it the largest denomination लिये कोई धर्म विश्वव्यापी ( although the church does not view itself as a denomination, but as the original pre-denominational church ).
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी, और साथ the Catholics, Protestants, Anglicans, and other closely related denominations comprise Western Christianity.
The Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodox चर्च और the assyrian गिरिजाघर of the ईस्ट are considered Eastern Christian denominations.
Western Christian denominations prevail in Western Europe and its former colonies.
Eastern Christian denominations are represented mostly in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and North Africa.
Christians have विभिन्न doctrines about the Church, the body of faithful that they believe was established by Jesus Christ, and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of the other.
Protestants separated from the Catholic Church because of theologies and practices that वे considered to be in violation of their interpretation.
Generally, members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians, at least to the extent that they have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox views including the देवत्व of Jesus and doctrines of sin and salvation, even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches.
Since the reforms surrounding Vatican II, the Catholic Church has referred to Protestant समुदायों as `` denominations '', while reserving the term `` church '' for apostolic churches, including the Eastern Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ).
There are however some non-denominational Christians who do not follow any particular branch.
The पांडा ( Ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and white cat-foot '' ), also known as the giant panda to distinguish it from the unrelated red panda, is a bear native to central-western and south western China.
It is easily recognized by the large, distinctive black धब्बे around its eyes, over the ears, and across its round body.
Though it belongs to the order Carnivora, the पांडा 's आहार is 99 % bamboo.
Pandas in the wild will occasionally eat other grasses, wild tubers, or even meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, वे may प्राप्त मधु, अंडे, मछली, yams, झाड़ी पत्ते, संतरे, or केले साथ साथ विशेषकर prepared खाना.
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges in central China, mainly in Sichuan province, but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces.
As a result of farming, deforestation and other development, the panda has been driven out of the lowland areas where it once lived.
The पांडा is a conservation reliant endangered species.
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity inside China and another 27 outside the country.
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows that there are about 1,590 individuals living in the wild, while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000.
Some reports also show that the number of pandas in the wild is on the वृद्धि.
However, the IUCN does not believe there is enough certainty yet to reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable.
While the ड्रैगन रै प्रायः परोसा as China 's national emblem, internationally the panda appears at least as commonly.
As such, it is becoming widely used within China in international contexts, for example the five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics.
the पतंग धावक is a 2007 American drama film directed by Marc Forster based on the novel of the same name by Khaled Hosseini.
It tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul, who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his friend Hassan, the son of his father 's Hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events, from the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet military intervention, the mass exodus of Afghan refugees to पाकिस्तानी और the संयुक्त States, and the Taliban regime.
Though most of the film is set in Afghanistan, these parts were mostly shot in Kashgar, China, due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time.
The majority of the film 's dialogue is in जमींदारी, with the remainder spoken in English.
the चाइल्ड अभिनेताओं हैं native speakers, but several adult actors had to learn Dari.
Filming wrapped up on December 21, 2006, and the film was expected to be released on November 2, 2007.
However, after concern for the safety of the young actors in the फिल्मी due to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in which they appear, its release date was pushed back six weeks to December 14, 2007.
The Kite Runner was released on DVD on March 25, 2008.
A HD DVD release was घोषित for the same date, but was canceled following the format 's demise.
the फिल्मी थी मनोनीत लिये the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन विदेशी भाषा फिल्मी in 2007.
The फिल्मी 's स्कोर by अल्बर्टो इग्लेसियस थी मनोनीत लिये बेहतरीन असली स्कोर at the सुनहरी ग्लोब्स और the अकादमी पुरस्कार.
The legality of cannabis varies from देश to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries और रै महरूम चूंकि the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of cannabis, particularly in North America, दक्षिण अमेरिका और यूरोपीय.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for federal law, which governs व्यक्तियों in all states.
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries, including Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, apart from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana, most देशों have विभिन्न penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions हैं लिया more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation, use, possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis, making it दंडनीय by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or frequent users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There are also changes in a more restrictive direction as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many countries and have resulted in कारावास वाक्य और people losing their jobs.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
Loxahatchee is a जातियाँ located in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States.
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and northwest of Royal Palm Beach, फ्लोरिडा और लगभग west of West Palm Beach.
Loxahatchee is also the name of the Post Office कि serves this area, which is under the zip code of 33470.
The name Loxahatchee अर्थात् `` turtle river. ''
Loxahatchee is located within the Indian Trails Improvement District and the Loxahatchee Groves Water Control ज़िला.
Lion Country Safari, a drive-through safari park, is located in Loxahatchee.
In 2006, the state of Florida approved incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as the Town of Loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th municipality in Palm Beach County.
The main reason for incorporating was to better protect the area from encroaching growth and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood.
Perhaps the most rural क्षेत्रफल within a close proximity to West Palm Beach, with lot sizes range from 1-20 acres.
Along with the acreage, it is notable for loose land restrictions and the native and exotic animal presence is quite notable.
Seminole लकीरें ऊँची स्कूल serves the area.
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test, administered by Citizenship and Immigration Canada ( CIC ), that is required for all applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship.
The test is available in both French and English, the official languages of Canada.
Renaissance Cruises, originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & Eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway, later खरीदा by Edward Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War.
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, Tahiti and the South प्रशांत, Northern Europe and Scandinavia.
The company ceased operations on 25 September 2001 and accommodated up to 220,000 अतिथि in 2000.
While the company had been in poor financial health for quite some time, the economic decline resulting from the September 11th terrorist हमले are credited with the demise of this cruise line.
The बेड़े is listed under List of cruise ships.
it was headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
Epithelium is one of the four मौलिक प्रकार of एनिमल ऊतक, along with connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue.
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of structures throughout the body, and also form many glands.
Functions of epithelial cells include secretion, selective absorption, protection, transcellular transport and detection of sensation.
In यूनानी `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '', and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
Epithelial layers are avascular, so वे जरूर receive nourishment via diffusion of substances from the underlying connective tissue, through the basement membrane.
Epithelia can also be organized into clusters of cells that function as exocrine and endocrine glands.
केंट E. hovind ( born जनवरी 15, 1953 ) is an अमरीकी यंग धरती creationist.
Hovind has spoken on creation science और रै aimed to convince listeners to reject theories of evolution, geophysics, and cosmology in favor of his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible.
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and some of his ideas have also been criticized by young Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis.
hovind स्थापित the सृष्टि विज्ञान Evangelism in 1991, and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools and churches, debates, and on radio and television broadcasts.
Since January 2007, Hovind रै महरूम सेवारत a ten-year थाना sentence after being convicted of 58 federal counts, including 12 tax offenses, one count of obstructing federal agents, and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions.
He is incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution at Berlin, New Hampshire.
Bride with बिंदी सजा forehead
A bindi (, from Sanskrit bindu, meaning `` a drop, small particle, dot '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil, Telugu, and Malayalam ) is a forehead decoration worn in South Asia ( विशेषकर India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia.
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the center of the माथे बंद to the eyebrows, but it can also consist of a sign or piece of jewelry worn at this location.
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday, November 2, 2010, to elect the Governor of New York, to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011.
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson, elected as Lieutenant Governor in 2006 as the running mate of former राज्यपाल एलियट स्पिट्जर, chose not to run for a full-term.
On November 2, New York Attorney General and Democrat Andrew Cuomo defeated Republican Carl Paladino.
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes, allowing the New York Green Party to be सूचीबद्ध on the ballot for the next 4 years.
the प्रमुख cast of Dragon Ball at the end of the manga.
The Dragon Ball manga and anime series features an extensive cast of characters created by Akira Toriyama.
The series takes प्लेस in a fictional ब्रह्मांड, the वही as toriyama 's पिछला श्रेणी dr. slump, और फ़ॉलो the adventures of martial कलाकार बेटे goku इससे बाल्यकाल to adulthood as he खोज लिये the सात spheres ज्ञात as the ड्रैगन गेंदें, प्रयुक्त to summon a wish-granting ड्रैगन.
During the course of the story, he encounters allies such as Bulma, Yamcha, Kuririn and Trunks, rivals such as Tenshinhan, Piccolo and Vegeta, and enemies such as Freeza and Cell.
While many of the characters are humans with superhuman strength and/or अलौकिक abilities, the cast also includes anthropomorphic animals and later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
The series also includes depictions of the afterlife, with several characters being gods that govern the universe.
250px
The Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe जिनकी historic territory, known as Comancheria, consisted of present day eastern New Mexico, southern Colorado, northeastern Arizona, southern Kansas, all of Oklahoma, and most of northwest Texas.
The Comanche people are enrolled in the federally recognized Comanche Nation, in Oklahoma.
historically, the Comanches were hunter-gatherers with a horse culture.
There may have been as many as 45,000 Comanches in the late 18th century.
Today, the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment संख्याएँ 15,191 with approximately 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest Oklahoma.
The Comanche Nation Homecoming Powwow is held annually in Walters, Oklahoma in mid-July.
The Comanche spoke the Comanche language, a Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan family, sometimes classified as a Shoshone dialect ; however, only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today.
ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the Pulitzer Prize -winning American author Edith Wharton.
It is set in the fictitious town of Starkfield, Massachusetts.
The novel was adapted into a फिल्मी, Ethan Frome, in 1993.
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an अमरीकी television studio located in the Times Square neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York.
The studio is best known as the production home of ABC News ' Good Morning America ( GMA ), a morning news and talk program and segments for GMA on एबीसी न्यूज अभी.
The Las Vegas Strip संसार of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola कम्पनी in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th सदी.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
the bottlers, जो थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन साथ filtered जल और sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest single coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The coca-cola कम्पनी भी sells concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other कोला पेय under the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet कोक, साथ अन्य including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand.
Types of bar-lines
In musical संकेतन, a बार ( or माप ) is a खण्ड of समय पारिभाषित by a दिए क्रमांक of बीट्स, प्रत्येक of जिससे हैं आबंटित a particular नोट मान.
Dividing music into bars provides regular reference points to pin point locations within a piece of music.
It also makes लिखा म्यूज़िक easier to follow, since each bar of staff symbols can be read and played as a batch.
Typically, a piece consists of several bars of the same length, and in modern musical notation the number of beats in each bar is specified at the beginning of the score by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ), while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ).
The word bar is more common in British English, and the word measure is more आम in अमरीकी English, although musicians generally understand both usages.
In American English, although the शब्द बार और माप हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably the correct use of the word 'bar ' refers only to the vertical line itself, while the word 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars.
In international usage, it is equally correct to speak of bar numbers and measure numbers, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
Along the same lines, it is wise to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ etc. for beats only ; bars should be referred to by name in full.
the पहला metrically complete measure within a piece of music is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the piece begins with an anacrusis ( an incomplete measure at the head of a piece of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
the 19.9 mw gemasolar सौर संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति 24 घंटों a दिन.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, जिससे can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to दोहन the energy.
passive सौर तकनीकों शामिल orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण, और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce प्रदूषण, निम्नतर the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ are global.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be माना सीखना निवेश ; वे जरूर be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
Primary care may be provided in community health centres.
Primary care is the health परवाह दिए by a health care provider.
Typically this provider acts as the principal point of consultation for patients within a health परवाह प्रणाली and coordinates other specialists that the patient may need.
Such a professional can be a primary care physician, such as a general practitioner or family physician, or depending on the locality, health system organization, and patient 's discretion, they may see a pharmacist, a physician assistant, a nurse practitioner, a nurse ( such as in the United Kingdom ), a clinical officer ( such as in parts of Africa ), or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ).
Depending on the प्रकृति of the स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन, patients may then be referred for secondary or tertiary care.
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a song recorded by अमरीकी पॉप punk group Yellowcard.
It was released in February 2004 as the second single from Ocean Avenue and the third track.
It is known for bringing them into the मुख्यधारा, as it received numerous spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay.
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville, Florida, the band 's stomping grounds near their high school, Douglas Anderson School of the Arts, and another street mentioned in the song, Cherry Street.
The name of Ocean Avenue in Jacksonville is actually Beach Boulevard.
They left their original base behind when they moved to Los Angeles.
The सोंग थी प्रदर्शित on the much म्यूज़िक संकलन एल्बम बिग चमकदार धुनें 9.
A psychiatrist is a चिकित्सक जो specializes in psychiatry.
A psychiatrist specializes in the treatment of mental disorders.
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine, conduct physical examinations, order and interpret laboratory tests, use psychotherapy and may order brain imaging studies such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ), magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ), and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning.
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, reproductive health, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, functions and system at all stages of life.
Reproductive health, therefore, implies that people are able to have a responsible, satisfying and safer sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, जब और कैसा often to do so.
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of birth control ; also access to appropriate health care services of sexual, reproductive medicine and implementation of health शिक्षा programs to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant.
On the other hand individuals do face inequalities in reproductive health services.
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic status, education level, age, ethnicity, धर्म, और resources available in their environment.
It is possible for उदाहरण, कि low income individuals lack the resources for appropriate health services and the knowledge to know what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive health.
According to the WHO, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of the global burden of ill-health for women, and 14 % for men. ''
Reproductive health is a part of Sexual and reproductive health and rights.
This is a list of episodes for the Disney Channel original series The Suite Life on Deck, which aired for three seasons on डिज़्नी चैनल from September 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range of Intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64 single-, dual-, and quad-core microprocessors आधारित on the Core microarchitecture.
The single- and dual-core मॉडल are single- die, whereas the quad-core models comprise two dies, each containing two cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand to the mid-range market, and reunified laptop and desktop CPU lines, which previously had been divided into the Pentium 4, Pentium D, and Pentium M brands.
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006, comprising the Solo ( single-core ), Duo ( dual-core ), Quad ( quad-core ), and in 2007, the Extreme ( dual- or quad-core cpu लिये enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro technology ( designed for businesses ) include the dual-core और quad-core branches.
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the National Football League ( NFL ), the highest level of पेशेवर अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल in the United States, culminating a season that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year.
The Super Bowl uses रोमन numerals to identify each game, rather than the year in which it is held.
For example, Super Bowl I थी निभाई on जनवरी 15, 1967, following the 1966 regular season, while Super Bowl XLVII was played on February 3, 2013, following the 2012 season.
The game थी निर्मित as भाग of a merger agreement between the NFL and its then-rival league, the American Football League ( AFL ).
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion teams would play in an AFL–NFL World Championship Game until the merger was to officially begin in 1970.
After the merger, each league was redesignated as a `` conference ``, and the game was then played between the conference champions.
Currently, the National Football Conference ( NFC ) leads the series साथ 25 wins to 22 wins for the American Football Conference ( AFC ).
The day on which the Super Bowl is played, now considered by some a de facto अमरीकी नेशनल holiday, is called `` Super Bowl Sunday ``.
it is the second-largest दिन लिये u.S. खाना खपत, बाद थैंक्सगिविंग दिन.
In addition, the Super Bowl has अक्सर महरूम the सबसे देखी American television broadcast of the year.
Super Bowl XLV, played in 2011, became the most-watched American television program in history, drawing an औसत दर्शक of 111 लाख viewers and taking over the spot held by the previous year 's Super Bowl, which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H.
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in the world, almost all being North American audiences, and is second to association football ’s UEFA Champions League final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide.
Because of its high viewership, commercial airtime during the Super Bowl broadcast is the most महंगी of the year.
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on the Super Bowl, companies regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this broadcast.
As a result, watching और discussing the broadcast 's commercials has become a significant aspect of the event.
In addition, many popular singers and musicians have performed during the event 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies because of the एक्सपोज़र.
Fiona is a feminine given name.
The name Fiona was invented, and first used, by the स्कॉटिश कवि जेम्स macpherson ( 1736–96 ), author of the Ossian poems, which he claimed were translations from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources, when challenged, he never produced ).
The name was subsequently used as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ), who authored several रोमांटिक works under the name `` Fiona Macleod ''.
The name has since become popular in England, Scotland and आयरलैंड.
The name is माना to be a Latinised form of the Gaelic word fionn, meaning `` white '', `` fair ''.
The name फिओना is भी sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the Irish-language name Fíona, although these names are otherwise unrelated ( as Fíona is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ).
There is also a modern tendency to equate the authentic Scottish Gaelic feminine नाम fionnghal with Fiona.
The name Fiona is rising in popularity particularly in German -speaking countries.
Fiona was the 49th most popular name लिये baby girls born in 2008 in Germany.
Fiona was tied for तीसरा प्लेस in the ranking of most popular names for baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
The name was the 347th most popular name for girls born in the United States in 2008, where it has ranked among the top 1,000 most popular names for girls since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999.
The name Fiona has been particularly popular for girls of Asian or Pacific Islander descent in New York City, where Fiona ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from those groups in 2007.
Many languages are used, or historically have been used in the United States.
The सबसे commonly used language is English.
There are also many languages indigenous to North America or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region.
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from Europe, Asia, or other parts of the world make up a large portion of the भाषाएं फिलहाल प्रयुक्त ; अनेक languages, including creoles and sign languages, have also developed in the United States.
Approximately 337 languages are spoken or signed by the जनसांख्यिकी, of which 176 are indigenous to the area.
Fifty-two languages formerly spoken in the country 's territory are now extinct.
The variety of English spoken in the United States is known as American English.
English is the de facto national language of the United States, साथ 80 % of the population claiming it as a mother tongue, and some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very well ''.
However, no official language exists at the federal level.
There have been several proposals to make English the national language in amendments to immigration reform bills, but none of these bills has become law with the amendment intact.
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels, with some states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official language in a de jure capacity, others adopting English alone, others officially adopting English as well as local languages, and still others adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism.
Spanish is the second most common language in the country, and is spoken by over 12 % of the population.
The United States holds the world 's fifth largest Spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by मैक्सिको, Spain, Colombia, and Argentina.
Throughout the Southwestern United States, long-established Spanish-speaking communities coexist with large numbers of more recent Hispanophone immigrants.
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less than fluent in English, nearly all second-generation Hispanic Americans speak English fluently, while only about half still speak Spanish.
According to the 2000 US census, people of German ancestry make up the largest single ethnic समूह in the संयुक्त States, and the German language ranks fifth.
Italian, Polish, and French are still widely spoken among populations descending from immigrants from those countries in the जल्दी 20th सदी, लकिन the उपयोग of these languages is dwindling as the older generations die.
रूसी is भी बोला by अप्रवासी populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one million speakers each in the United States, almost entirely within recent immigrant populations.
Both languages, along with the varieties of the Chinese language, Japanese, and Korean, are now used in चुनावों in अलास्का, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, Texas, and Washington.
देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं are spoken in smaller pockets of the country, but these populations are decreasing, and the languages are almost never widely used outside of reservations.
Hawaiian, although having few native speakers, is an official language along with English at the state level in Hawaii.
The state government of Louisiana offers सेवाएं and documents in French, as does New Mexico in Spanish.
Besides English, Spanish, French, जर्मनी, navajo and other Native American languages, all other languages are usually learned from immigrant ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned through some form of education.
1990 's Pontiac Grand Am Sedan fender and क्वार्टर panel
On an automobile, a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is known in British English ) is usually considered the body panel which goes between the rear door and the trunk and typically wraps around the wheel well ; however, the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ), between the door and the hood, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel.
The quarter panel is typically made of Sheet metal, but is sometimes made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced plastic ; हालांकि, इस varies with different makes and models.
A quarter panel is typically a welded on component of the uni-body ढांचा or Monocoque.
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter panel typically requires it to be cut off the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle.
Due to this high amount of specialized labor, a quarter panel may often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering आउट the damage, and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface.
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively salop ; abbreviated, in print only, Shrops ) is a county in the West Midlands region of England.
It सीमायें वेल्स to the west, Cheshire to the north, Staffordshire to the east, Worcestershire to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south.
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council ) was निर्मित on 1 April 2009, taking over from the previous county council and 5 district councils, and covers most of the county.
the बरो of telford और wrekin रै महरूम a पृथक एकात्मक प्राधिकार चूंकि 1998 लकिन continues to be शामिल in the ceremonial county.
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of Shrewsbury, which is culturally and historically important and is located in the centre of the county ; Telford, a new town in the east which was constructed around a number of older towns, most notably Wellington, Dawley and Madeley, which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford, and Ludlow in the south.
The county has many further market towns, including Whitchurch in the north, Newport just to the north-east of Telford, and Market Drayton in the north-east of the county.
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, covering Ironbridge, Coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley.
There are, additionally, other notable ऐतिहासिक औद्योगिक sites located around the county, such as at Shrewsbury, Broseley, Snailbeach and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal.
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding Natural सौंदर्य कवर परिचय a क्वार्टर of the county, mainly in the south.
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely populated counties, with the population density of the Shropshire Council area being just 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
The Wrekin is one of the most famous प्राकृतिक लैंडमार्क in the काउंटी, हालांकि the highest hills are the Clee Hills, Stiperstones and the Long Mynd.
Wenlock Edge is another significant geographical and geological landmark.
In the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's, Whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve, one of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण and best preserved bogs in Britain.
The River Severn, Great Britain 's longest river, runs through the county, exiting into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley.
Shropshire is landlocked, and with an area of, is England 's largest inland county.
The county flower is the round-leaved sundew.
For Eurostat purposes, the county ( less the unitary district of Telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial county ), together with the authorities covering the ceremonial county of Staffordshire, comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009, from left : Kunal Nayyar, Simon Helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, और Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory, created and executive उत्पादित by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist राजेश koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : लेस्ली winkle ( ऋतु 1 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at अलग टाइम्स, a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी, और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( ऋतु 3 अतिथि ; ऋतु 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), जो joins the समूह बाद होने matched to शेल्डन on a डेटिंग जालस्थल ; और कॉमिक किताब store-owner, स्टुअर्ट खिलते ( सीज़न 2–5 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 6-present नियमित ), जो replaces हावर्ड as राज 's बेहतरीन dost जब हावर्ड is in स्पेस.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, each of whom plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes.
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television series, running from 1983 to 1987, about a fictional group of ex– United States Army Special Forces personnel who work as soldiers of fortune, while on the run from the Army after होने ब्रांडेड as युद्ध अपराधियों लिये a `` अपराधों वे did n't commit ``.
A feature film based on the series was released by 20th Century Fox on June 11, 2010.
A comic किताब श्रेणी, A-Team : Shotgun Wedding, began March 9, 2010.
Diana Prince is a fictional character appearing regularly in stories published by DC Comics.
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942 ) और serves as the civilian and secret identity of the superhero Wonder Woman.
The character was created by Charles Moulton and Harry G. Peter.
Wat Phra Kaew, बैंकॉक, Thailand
There is no official state religion in the Thai constitution, जिससे guarantees religious freedom for all Thai citizens, though the king is required by law to be Buddhist.
According to the last census ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais are Buddhists of the Theravada tradition.
Muslims are the second largest religious group in Thailand at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani, Yala, narathiwat and part of Songkhla Chumphon have dominant Muslim populations, consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay.
The southern tip of Thailand is ज़्यादातर जातीय Malays.
ईसाइयों, mainly Catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
A small but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some Hindus also live in the country 's cities, and are heavily engaged in retail commerce.
There is also a छोटी Jewish community in Thailand, dating back to the 17th century.
चूंकि 2001, मुस्लिम कार्यकर्ताओं, generally वर्णित by the थाई सरकारी as आतंकवादी or separatists, have rallied विरूद्ध the सेंट्रल सरकारी क्युकी of कथित भ्रष्टाचार और जातीय पूर्वाग्रह on the भाग of officials.
Thailand 's Department of Religion, currently under the मंत्रालय of संस्कृति, is formally जिम्मेदार for the registration of religious groups in Thailand URL_http which hold properties through legally established foundations.
It has oversight, along with the Immigration Police, over the कार्य permits of missionaries who are `` expatriate religious workers '' of all religions.
A value added tax ( VAT ) is a form of consumption tax.
From the perspective of the buyer, it is a tax on the purchase दाम.
From that of the seller, it is a tax only on the value added to a product, material, or service, from an accounting point of view, by this stage of its manufacture or distribution.
The manufacturer remits to the government the difference between these two amounts, और retains the rest for themselves to offset the taxes they had previously paid on the inputs.
The value added to a उत्पाद by or साथ a business is the sale price charged to its customer, minus the cost of materials and other taxable inputs.
A VAT is like a sales tax in that ultimately only the end consumer is taxed.
It differs from the sales tax in that, with the latter, the कर is एकत्रित and remitted to the government only once, at the point of purchase by the end consumer.
With the VAT, collections, remittances to the government, and credits for taxes already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products.
A referee कॉलिंग a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur when a player intentionally or inadvertently plays with his or her stick above the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a हॉकी goal.
This can result in a stoppage of play or in a penalty.
In the rules of the नेशनल हॉकी League, high-sticking is defined as a penalty in Rule 60 and as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80.
A stoppage in play results if a high stick comes in contact with the puck and the team who touched it regains कंट्रोल of the puck.
However, play usually continues if a player touches the पक साथ a ऊँची स्टिक और the opposing team gains control of the puck.
If the puck goes into the opposing net after coming into सम्पर्क with a high stick, the goal is disallowed.
The level at जिससे a stick is considered too high for a goal is the crossbar of the net.
However, if a player knocks the puck into his own net with a high stick, the goal is allowed.
A penalty is assessed if a player strikes another player with a high stick.
The player is given a minor दंड जबतक his high stick caused an injury, in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor, major or match penalty.
It is the referee 's discretion which penalty to assess : the rule calls for a double minor for an accidental injury, or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ).
Injury is usually decided by the high stick causing bleeding, but the presence of blood does not automatically औसत an अतिरिक्त penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to award an extra penalty without the presence of blood if the रेफरी determines that the injury sustained was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty.
Typical modern memory card reader, compatible with many आम formats
A memory card reader is a device, typically having a USB interface, for accessing the data on a memory card such as a CompactFlash ( CF ), Secure Digital ( SD ) or multimediacard ( MMC ).
Most कार्ड पाठक भी offer write capability, and together with the card, this can function as a pen drive.
Some printers and personal computers have a built-in card reader.
A multi card reader is used for संचार साथ अधिक than one type of flash memory card.
Multi card readers do not have built-in memory capacity, but are able to accept multiple types and styles of memory cards.
The क्रमांक of compatible memory cards varies from reader to reader and can include more than 20 different types.
The number of अलग मेमोरी ताश कि a multi card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, with x being a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted, such as 35-in-1.
There are three categories of card readers sorted by the type and quantity of the card slots : सिंगल कार्ड रीडर ( e.g. 1x SD-only ), multi card reader ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g. 4x SD only ).
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB functions do not need the card reader, such as the Intelligent Stick memory card, which can plug directly into a USB slot.
The USB device class प्रयुक्त is 0x08.
धमकाना is हानिकारक to students ' well-being and development.
धमकाना is the use of force or coercion to abuse or intimidate others.
The behavior can be habitual and involve an imbalance of social or physical power.
it can शामिल मौखिक उत्पीड़न or threat, शारीरिक उत्पीड़न or coercion और may be निर्देशित repeatedly towards particular पीड़ितों, शायद on grounds of रेस, धर्म, लिंग, कामुकता, or क्षमता.
If bullying is done by a group, it is पुकारा mobbing.
The victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
धमकाना can be defined in many different ways.
The UK currently has no legal definition of bullying, while some U.S. states have laws विरूद्ध it.
Bullying consists of three basic types of abuse – emotional, verbal, and physical.
It typically involves subtle methods of coercion such as intimidation.
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one bullying to more complex bullying in which the bully may have one or more `` lieutenants '' जो may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities.
Bullying in school and the कार्यस्थल is also referred to as peer abuse.
Robert W. Fuller has analyzed धमकाना in the context of rankism.
A bullying culture can develop in any context in which human beings interact with each other.
This includes school, church, family, the workplace, home, and neighborhoods.
Happy slapping in the Instituto Regional Federico Errázuriz, Santa Cruz, Chile
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4, 2007, in Austin, Texas, बाद the 8-year-old introduced Mrs. Bush during announcement of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
Rae Leigh was the पहला चाइल्ड in the u.S. to be recovered as a result of an AMBER Alert when she was 8 weeks old in November 1998.
An AMBER Alert or a चाइल्ड Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : CAE ) is a child abduction alert system originating in 1996, now employed in 9 countries.
एम्बर is officially a backronym लिये अमेरिका 's लापता : प्रसारण आपात जवाब, नामित लिये एम्बर hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted और murdered in आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास in 1996.
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia, `` Levi 's Call '' ( named after Levi Frady ) ; in Hawaii, `` Maile Amber Alert '' ( after Maile Gilbert ) ; and Arkansas, `` Morgan Nick Amber Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan chauntel Nick ).
एम्बर चेतावनियाँ हैं वितरित via वाणिज्यिक रेडियो स्टेशन, अंतरजाल रेडियो, उपग्रह रेडियो, टेलीविज़न स्टेशन, और केबल tv by the आपात चेतावनी प्रणाली और noaa मौसम रेडियो ( जहाँ वे हैं termed `` चाइल्ड abduction आपात '' or `` एम्बर चेतावनियाँ '' ).
The alerts are also issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition signs, the LED billboards which हैं स्तिथ outside of newer Walgreens locations, along with the LED/LCD signs of billboard companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor, CBS Outdoor and Lamar, or through wireless device SMS text messages.
AMBER Alert has also teamed up with Google and Facebook to relay information regarding an AMBER Alert to an ever growing demographic.
Those interested in subscribing to receive AMBER Alerts in their area via SMS messages can visit Wireless Amber Alerts, which are offered by law as free messages.
In some states, the display scrollboards in सामने of lottery terminals are also used.
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each police organization ( in many cases, the राज्य police or highway patrol ) which investigates each of the abductions.
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name and description of the abductee, a वर्णन of the suspected abductor, and a description and license plate number of the abductor 's vehicle, if available.
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became ज्ञात as the lewinsky कांड.
House of Night is a series of vampire -थीमd fantasy novels by American author P. C. Cast and her daughter Kristin Cast.
It follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird, a sixteen-year-old girl who has just become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is required to attend the House of Night boarding school in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
The series has been on the New York Times Best Seller list for 63 weeks and there are over सात लाख नक़ल in print in North America alone.
The sixth novel, Tempted, which went on sale on October 27, 2009 with a first printing of a million copies, entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1.
In January, 2010, Gezeichnet, a German translation of Marked, reached the # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestseller list.
The श्रेणी रै so दूर बेची अधिक than टेन लाख किताबे in 39 देशों.
Burned was released on April 27, 2010, and like Tempted, it entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1.
awakened, released in January, 2011, also entered the list at # 1.
The श्रेणी, जिससे is प्रकाशित by st मार्टिन 's दबायें is नियोजित to शामिल बारह किताबे.
In 2008, योजनाएँ for a film adaptation were also announced.
The tenth book in the series, Hidden, was released on October 16, 2012.
The दूसरी किताब in the novellas ( which give backgrounds on supporting characters ), Lenobia 's Vow, was released January 31, 2012.
Book eleven is currently called Revealed, और the casts have घोषित कि two more novellas, Neferet’s Curse, planned to be released February 19, 2013, and a prequel novel about Kalona, are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books.
In Greek mythology, the Trojan War was waged विरूद्ध the नगर of ट्रॉय by the achaeans ( Greeks ) after Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta.
The war is one of the most important events in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of यूनानी literature, most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey.
The Iliad relates a part of the last year of the siege of Troy ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's journey home.
Other parts of the war are contained in a cycle of epic poems, which have survived through fragments.
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek tragedy and other works of Greek literature, and for Roman कवियों सहित वर्जिल और Ovid.
The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena, Hera, and Aphrodite, after Eris, the goddess of strife and discord, gave them a golden apple, sometimes known as the Apple of Discord, marked `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the goddesses to Paris, who judged that Aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', should प्राप्त the apple.
In exchange, Aphrodite made Helen, the most beautiful of all women and wife of Menelaus, fall in love with Paris, who took her to Troy.
Agamemnon, king of Mycenae and the brother of हेलेन 's husband menelaus, led an expedition of Achaean troops to Troy and besieged the city for ten years because of Paris ' insult.
After the deaths of many heroes, including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax, and the Trojans Hector and Paris, the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except लिये कुछ of the महिलाओं और children जिसको they kept or sold as slaves ) and desecrated the temples, thus earning the gods ' wrath.
Few of the Achaeans returned safely to their homes and many founded colonies in distant shores.
The Romans later traced their origin to Aeneas, one of the Trojans, who was said to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy.
The ancient Greeks thought that the Trojan War was a historical event that had taken place in the 13th or 12th century BC, and believed कि Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles.
By modern times, both the war and the city were widely believed to be non-historical.
In 1868, however, the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert, who convinced Schliemann that Troy was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now accepted by most scholars.
Whether there is any historical reality behind the trojan War is an open question.
Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to the tale, though this may simply mean that the Homeric stories are a fusion of various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age.
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical conflict usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC, often preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes, 1194–1184 BC, which roughly corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa.
Anarchists have employed certain symbols for their cause, including most prominently the circle-A and the black flag, although anarchists have historically largely denied the महत्व of symbols to political movement.
Since the revival of anarchism around the start of the 21st-century संयुक्त साथ the वृद्धि of the anti-globalization movement, anarchist cultural symbols are widely present.
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the कपाल कि transmits the वृहद palatine artery, vein, and nerve between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity.
सतह तापमान of अंटार्कटिक in शीत और गर्मियाँ इससे the यूरोपीय केन्द्र लिये medium-range मौसम Forecasts
The climate of अंटार्कटिक is the coldest on the whole of Earth.
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring temperature ever recorded on the ground on Earth : −89.2 °C ( −128.6 °F ) at Vostok Station.
It is also extremely dry ( technically a desert ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of precipitation per year.
Even so, on most parts of the continent the snow rarely melts and is eventually compressed to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet.
Weather fronts rarely घुस far into the continent.
Most of Antarctica has an बर्फ cap climate ( Köppen EF ) with very cold, generally extremely dry weather throughout the year and no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ).
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET ) with a short summer averaging ऊपर जमने, और much higher precipitation.
Current head coach माइक tomlin, during the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh Steelers मताधिकार has had 16 head coaches throughout its history.
संस्थापित as the Pittsburgh Pirates in, the name was changed to the Steelers prior to the season to celebrate the city 's heritage of producing steel.
Joe Bach served two separate terms as head coach और वॉल्ट Kiesling served three separate terms.
During the and seasons, due to the amount of players जो fought in World War II, the Steelers combined their team with Philadelphia and Chicago, respectively.
During these seasons, Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared coaching duties with Greasy Neale and Phil Handler, who have not been included within इस सूची.
Struggling for much of the franchise 's early years, the टोली 's पहला ऋतु with more wins than losses was coached by Jock Sutherland in.
In, under Sutherland, the Steelers played their first playoff game against the फिलाडेल्फिया ईगल्स.
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent their संपूर्ण professional coaching careers with the franchise, including John McNally, Walt Kiesling and Chuck Noll, who have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
One of only four men to coach the वही टोली for 23 years, Chuck Noll retired in.
Noll is also the only coach in नेशनल Football League history to win four Super Bowls.
Bill Cowher, Noll 's replacement, coached the स्टीलर्स to उनके fifth Super Bowl victory, in 2005.
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super कटोरी xliii, while head coached by Mike Tomlin, the team 's current head coach.
In criminal law, fraud is intentional deception made for personal gain or to damage another व्यक्तिगत ; the related adjective is fraudulent, and verb is defraud.
Fraud is a अपराधों and a civil law violation, though the specific criminal law definition varies by legal jurisdiction.
Defrauding people or entities of money or valuables is a common purpose of fraud.
A hoax also involves deception, but without the intention of gain or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a defense in a civil action for breach of contract or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन of a contract.
धोखाधड़ी is a basis for equitable jurisdiction.
Passover, or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew, Yiddish ), Tiberian :, Modern Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah, Pesakh, Yiddish : Peysekh, Paysakh, Paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived Jewish festival.
Historically, together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and Sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ), Passover is one of the three pilgrimage त्यौहार ( shalosh regalim ) दौरान जिससे the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem.
Samaritans still make this यात्राएं to माउंट Gerizim, but only men participate in public worship.
Passover commences on the 15th of the यहूदी माह of Nisan and lasts for either seven days ( in Israel ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ).
In Judaism, a day commences at dusk और lasts until the following dusk, thus the first day of Passover only begins after dusk of the 14th of Nisan and ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of Nisan.
The rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence with the Passover seder when the 15th of Nisan has begun.
In the Northern Hemisphere Passover takes place in spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is one of the most widely observed Jewish holidays.
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years ago by God from slavery in ancient Egypt that was ruled by the Pharaohs, and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses.
It commemorates the story of the Exodus as described in the Hebrew Bible especially in the Book of exodus, in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt.
In the narrative of the Exodus, the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born.
The Israelites were instructed to mark the doorposts of their homes with the blood of a slaughtered spring lamb and, upon seeing this, the spirit of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in ये घरों, hence the नाम of the अवकाश.
There is some debate over where the term is actually derived from.
When the Pharaoh freed the israelites, it is said that they left in such a hurry that they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ).
In commemoration, for the duration of Passover no leavened bread is eaten, for which reason it is called `` the पर्व of the Unleavened Bread ''.
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened ब्रैड ) is खाया during Passover and it is a symbol of the holiday.
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth, and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and more spectacular, but will appear only once in हज़ारों of सालो.
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese, Babylonian, and medieval European chroniclers, but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 और होगा next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely रचित of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is विपक्ष to साम्यवादी.
Organized anti-communism developed in reaction to the rise of communism, especially after the 1917 October Revolution in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War.
Most anti-communists reject the concept of historical materialism, जिससे is a सेंट्रल विचार in Marxism.
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief that capitalism will be followed by socialism and communism, just as feudalism was followed by capitalism.
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist claim that the socialist state will `` wither away '' when it becomes unnecessary in a true communist society.
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the early years of Bolshevik rule, while not as extreme as that during Joseph Stalin 's rule, was still severe by reasonable standards, citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's रहस्य पुलिस, जिससे eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions, and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion.
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as totalitarianism, seeing similarity between the actions of communist and fascist governments.
Historian Robert Conquest has argued that Communism was responsible for tens of millions of deaths during the 20th century.
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to power have tended to be rigidly असहिष्णु of political opposition.
These opponents claim that most Communist countries have shown no signs of advancing from Marx 's socialist stage of economy to an ideal communist stage.
Rather, Communist governments have been accused of creating a new ruling class ( a Nomenklatura ), with powers and privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the अपर वर्ग in the non- communist regimes.
Gil Heron ( 9 April 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican professional footballer.
he थी the पहला ब्लैक खिलाड़ी to खेल लिये स्कॉटिश क्लबों सेल्टिक, और थी the पिता of कवि और संगीतकार gil scott-heron.
He died in Detroit of a दिल attack on 27 November 2008.
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( Glycine max ) is a species of legume native to East Asia, widely grown for its edible सेम जिससे रै numerous uses.
The plant is classed as an oilseed rather than a pulse by the UN खाना and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant और सस्ती सोर्स of protein for animal feeds and many prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable oil is another product of processing the soybean crop.
For example, soybean products such as textured vegetable protein ( TVP ) are ingredients in अनेक मांस and dairy analogues.
Soybeans produce significantly अधिक protein per acre than most other uses of land.
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans include soy milk, and from the latter tofu and tofu skin.
Fermented foods include soy sauce, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among others.
The oil is used in अनेक औद्योगिक applications.
The main producers of soy are the United States ( 35 % ), Brazil ( 27 % ), Argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) और India ( 4 % ).
The beans contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
Harrison Ford ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an American film actor and निर्माता.
He is famous for his performances as Han Solo in the original Star Wars त्रयी और the शीर्षक अक्षर of the Indiana Jones film series.
Ford is also known for his roles as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner, John Book in Witness and Jack Ryan in Patriot खेल and Clear and Present Danger.
His career has spanned six decades and includes roles in several हॉलीवुड blockbusters, including Presumed Innocent, The Fugitive, Air Force One, and What Lies Beneath.
At one point, चार of the शीर्ष six box-office hits of all time included one of his roles.
Five of his films have been inducted into the National Film Registry.
In 1997, Ford was ranked No. 1 in Empire `` The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time '' list.
, the United States domestic box office grosses of Ford 's films total over US $ 3.5 billion, with worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
Ford is the husband of actress Calista flockhart.
A tube of chapstick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and used in many countries worldwide.
It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped lips ; hence the name.
Many varieties also include sunscreen in order to prevent sunburn.
Due to its popularity, the term has become a genericized ट्रेडमार्क.
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a lipstick-style tube and applied in the same manner as lipstick.
However, the term is still a registered trademark, with rights exclusively owned by Pfizer.
In स्वीडन और in the संयुक्त किंगडम, the उत्पाद 's प्रमुख प्रतिस्पर्धी is lypsyl, बना by novartis उपभोक्ता स्वास्थ्य, जिससे is वितरित in समान पैकेजिंग to chapstick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), भी ज्ञात as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ), was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ).
This theory denies the existence of material substance and instead contends that familiar objects like tables and chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers, and as a result can not exist without being perceived.
Thus, as Berkeley famously put it, for physical objects `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ).
Berkeley is also ज्ञात for his critique of abstraction, an important premise in his argument for immaterialism.
In 1709, Berkeley published his first major work,, in which he discussed the limitations of human vision and advanced the theory that the proper objects of sight are not material objects, but light and colour.
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 which, after its poor reception, he rewrote in dialogue form and published under the title Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous in 1713.
In this book, Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover of mind ' ), while Hylas ( Greek : 'मैटr ' ) embodies the आयरिश thinker’s opponents, in particular John Locke.
Berkeley argued against Sir Isaac न्यूटन 's doctrine of absolute space, time and motion in De Motu ( on Motion ), published 1721.
His arguments were a precursor to the views of Mach and Einstein.
In 1732, he published Alciphron, a Christian apologetic against the free-thinkers, and in 1734, he published The Analyst, an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal calculus, which was influential in the development of mathematics.
His last major philosophical work, Siris ( 1744 ), begins by advocating the medicinal use of tar water, and then continues to discuss a चौड़ी दायरा of topics including science, philosophy, and theology.
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II, because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th century such as the problems of perception, the difference between primary and secondary qualities, and the importance of language.
Qingdao ( ), historically ज्ञात as tsingtao, is a major city in eastern Shandong province, Eastern China, with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ).
Its built up area, बना of 6 urban districts and 4 county-level cities, is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010.
it सीमायें yantai to the पूर्वोत्तर, weifang to the वेस्ट और rizhao to the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
Qīng ( ) in Chinese means `` green '' or `` रसीले '', while dǎo ( ) means `` island ''.
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial स्तर.
lying आरपार the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow Sea, Qingdao is a major seaport, naval base, and industrial centre.
It is also the साईट of the Tsingtao Brewery.
the संसार 's longest समुद्र सेतु, the चिंगदाओ haiwan सेतु, कड़ी the प्रमुख शहरी क्षेत्रफल of चिंगदाओ साथ huangdao ज़िला, straddling the jiaozhou खाड़ी sea areas.
Qingdao is नामित China 's most livable city.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ), or is a group of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated usually MimiN ).
in colloquial speech, APMV is more commonly referred to as just `` mimivirus ''.
जबतक अक्तूबर 2011, जब a larger वायरस megavirus chilensis थी वर्णित, it था the largest capsid व्यास of सब ज्ञात वाइरस.
Mimivirus has a large and complex genome compared with most other viruses.
Mimivirus, short for `` mimicking microbe '', is so called to reflect its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties.
The मैक्सिकन War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed conflict between the people of Mexico and the Spanish colonial authorities which started on September 16, 1810.
The movement, which became known as the Mexican War of Independence, was led by mexican-born spaniards, Mestizos and Amerindians who sought independence from Spain.
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their colonial masters, but ended as an unlikely गठबंधन between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla insurgents.
Crohn 's disease, also known as Crohn syndrome and regional enteritis, is a type of inflammatory bowel disease that may affect any part of the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट इससे mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms.
It primarily causes abdominal pain, diarrhea ( जिससे may be खूनी if सूजन is at its worst ), vomiting ( can be continuous ), or weight loss, but may also cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract such as skin rashes, arthritis, inflammation of the eye, tiredness, and lack of concentration.
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between environmental, immunological and bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals.
This results in a chronic inflammatory disorder, in which the body 's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens.
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an autoimmune disease in the past ; हाल जांचकर्ताओं have described it as an immune deficiency state.
There is a genetic association with Crohn 's disease, primarily with variations of the NOD2 gene and its protein, which senses बैक्टीरियल कोशिका walls.
Siblings of affected individuals are at उच्चतर रिस्क.
Males and females are equally affected.
Smokers are two times अधिक likely to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000 and 600,000 लोगों in North America.
Prevalence estimates for Northern Europe have ranged from 27–48 प्रति 100,000.
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, हालांकि the disease can occur at any age.
There is no known फार्मास्युटिकल or surgical cure for Crohn 's disease.
Treatment options are restricted to controlling symptoms, maintaining remission, and preventing पतन.
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn, who, in 1932, together with two other colleagues at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, described a series of patients with inflammation of the terminal ileum, the area most commonly affected by the illness.
This is an अधूरी सूची of the tallest buildings and structures by country.
The list directly includes the tallest buildings and structures for each country, and where appropriate, it also points to more detailed country-specific lists.
Rough and तैयार is a census-designated place in Nevada County, California, United States.
It is located west of Grass Valley, California, approximately 62 miles ( 100 km ) from sacramento.
The population was 963 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
YouTube is a video-sharing website, created by three former PayPal employees in February 2005, on which users can upload, view and share videos.
The company is based in San Bruno, California, and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to display a wide variety of user-generated video content, including movie clips, TV clips, and music videos, as well as amateur content such as video blogging, short original videos, and educational videos.
सबसे of the सामग्री on youtube रै महरूम अपलोड by individuals, हालांकि मीडिया corporations सहित सीबीएस, the बीबीसी, vevo, hulu, और अन्य संगठन प्रस्ताव कुछ of उनके सामग्री via the साईट, as भाग of the youtube साझेदारी कार्यक्रम.
Unregistered users can watch videos, while registered users can upload an असीमित क्रमांक of videos.
Videos considered to contain potentially offensive content are available only to registered users at least 18 years old.
In November 2006, YouTube, LLC was bought by Google for US $ 1.65 billion, and operates as a subsidiary of Google.
Sister अधिनियम is a musical लिखा by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill Steinkellner with additional book material by Douglas Carter Beane, with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken.
It is based on the hit 1992 film कॉमेडी of the same name.
The 2009 West End production was produced by Stage Entertainment, Whoopi Goldberg, और माइकल Reno for Sis Acts LLC.
Goldberg is also a producer of the 2011 Broadway adaptation.
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming interfaces ( APIs ) for handling tasks related to multimedia, especially game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms.
Originally, the names of these APIs all began with Direct, such as Direct3D, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, DirectPlay, DirectSound, and so forth.
The name DirectX was coined as shorthand term for all of these APIs ( the X standing in for the particular API names ) and soon became the name of the collection.
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming console, the X was used as the basis of the name Xbox to indicate कि the console was based on DirectX technology.
The X initial has been carried forward in the naming of APIs designed for the Xbox such as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ), while the DirectX pattern has been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite.
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the development of video games for microsoft Windows, Microsoft Xbox, Microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games.
Direct3D is also used by other software applications for visualization and graphics tasks such as CAD/CAM engineering.
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of DirectX, it is common to see the names `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably.
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable binary form, along with accompanying documentation and headers for use in coding.
originally, the runtimes were only installed by games or explicitly by the user.
Windows 95 did not launch with DirectX, but DirectX was included with Windows 95 oem Service Release 2.
खिड़कियाँ 98 and Windows NT 4.0 both shipped with DirectX, as has every version of Windows released since.
The SDK is available as a free download.
While the runtimes हैं मालिकाना, closed-source software, source code is provided for most of the SDK samples.
Starting with the release of Windows 8 Developer Preview, DirectX SDK has been integrated into Windows SDK.
Direct3D 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11 are only available for Windows Vista and newer because each of these new versions was built to depend upon the new Windows Display Driver Model that was introduced for Windows Vista.
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new video memory manager supporting virtualization of graphics hardware for various अनुप्रयोग और सेवाएं जैसे the डेस्कटॉप खिड़की Manager.
Quetzaltenango, also commonly known by its स्वदेशी नाम, xelajú, or more commonly, Xela, is the second largest city of Guatemala.
It is both the capital of Quetzaltenango Department and the municipal seat of Quetzaltenango municipality.
It has an अनुमानित population of 224,703.
The population is about 61 % indigenous or Amerindian, 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European.
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an elevation of 2,330 meters ( 7,655 ft ) above sea level at its lowest part.
It may reach above 2,400 meters within the city.
The Municipality of Quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
municipalities abutting the नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango शामिल : salcajá, cantel, almolonga, zunil, el palmar, concepción chiquirichapa, सैन mateo, la esperanza, olintepeque, और सैन आन्द्रेस xecul.
All these municipalities are part of the Department of quetzaltenango, मगर San Andrés Xecul which is a part of the Department of Totonicapán.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with पाँच स्वतंत्र sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of these were used as source material for a combined epic in अक्कादी.
This first combined epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' संस्करण, dates to the 18th century BC and is titled after its incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have survived.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
fragments of लगभग दो तिहाई of इस longer, twelve-tablet संस्करण have महरूम बरामद.
Some of the best copies were discovered in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian किंग ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a friendship between gilgamesh and Enkidu.
enkidu is a जंगली man निर्मित by the देवताओं as gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract उसे इससे oppressing the लोगों of uruk.
Together, they यात्रा to the देवदार Mountain to defeat Humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven, which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these actions, the gods sentence enkidu to मौत.
The second half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at enkidu 's मौत, and his quest for immortality.
in अनुक्रम to learn the secret of eternal life, Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey.
He learns कि `` The life that you are seeking you will never find.
When the gods created man they allotted to उसे death, but life they retained in their own keeping. ''
इस उद्धरण थी originally attributed to siduri in the बूढ़ा babylonian संस्करण of the एपिक, और तब attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the अक्कादी संस्करण of the एपिक.
Nevertheless, gilgamesh 's कीर्ति जिया on after his death, because of his great building projects, and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has been translated into many different languages, and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
There are numerous debates over who created the first video game, with the answer depending largely on how video games are defined.
the एवोल्यूशन of वीडियो खेल represents a उलझे वेब of अनेक अलग उद्योग, सहित वैज्ञानिक, कंप्यूटर, आर्केड, और उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स.
The `` video '' in `` video game `` traditionally refers to a raster display device.
With the popular catch phrase उपयोग of the पद `` video game '', the term now implies all display types, formats, and platforms.
Historians have also sought to bypass the issue by instead using the अधिक विशिष्ट `` digital games '' descriptive.
This term leaves out the earlier analog-based कंप्यूटर games.
This is a सूची of best-selling वीडियो खेल franchises कि have बेची or shipped at तनिक 5 लाख नक़ल.
Unless otherwise stated, numbers indicate worldwide units sold, ordered alphabetically whenever दो or अधिक सूची the same amount.
The exception are the ones specifying शिपमेंट, which have lower precedence than others listing sales.
Franchise sales include expansion packs even though they are not considered full video games.
For best-selling individual video games, देखिए सूची of best-selling video games.
the बिक्री आंकड़े given below do not include arcade game sales, which can be found at List of highest-grossing arcade video games.
– This color indicates a sub-series of a larger वीडियो game franchise.
This does not necessarily apply for series that हैं नहीं video game-based.
डोरोथी ऐन विलिस रिचर्ड्स ( सितंबर 1, 1933 – सितंबर 13, 2006 ) थी an अमरीकी राजनेता और the 45th राज्यपाल of टेक्सास.
She first came to national attention as the state treasurer of Texas, when she delivered the keynote address at the 1988 Democratic National Convention.
Richards परोसा as the 45th Governor of Texas from 1991 to 1995 and was defeated for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush.
Ann Richards was the दूसरी female governor of Texas.
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a security feature शामिल in modern operating systems.
It is known to be available in Linux, Mac OS X, iOS, Microsoft Windows and Android operating systems and is intended to prevent an application or service from executing code from a non-executable memory region.
This helps prevent certain exploits that store code via a buffer overflow, for example.
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced DEP for CPUs that can mark memory pages as nonexecutable, and software-enforced DEP with limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support.
Software-enforced DEP does not protect विरूद्ध execution of code in data pages, but instead counters SEH overwrite, another type of attack.
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ), on Windows in 2004 with Windows XP सेवा पैक 2, while Apple introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006.
Example उदाहरण of two common futanari variants
, is the Japanese word for hermaphroditism, which is also used in a broader sense for androgyny.
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic genre of computer games, comics and animations, which includes characters that show both primary sexual विशेषताएँ.
But in आज 's भाषा it refers almost exclusively for characters who have an overall feminine appearance.
In that case the term is भी प्रायः abbreviated as futa ( s ), which is occasionally also used as term for the works itself.
जल्दी captchas ऐसे as ये, उत्पन्न by the ez-gimpy कार्यक्रम, यहूद प्रयुक्त on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA, rather than attempting to create a distorted background and high levels of warping on the text, might focus on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line.
Another way to make segmentation difficult is to crowd symbols together, as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format.
Some CAPTCHAs try to utilize the ability of people to देखिए three-dimensional objects.
On this image, symbols are drawn with lines of अलग मोटाई to मेक an effect of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response परीक्षण प्रयुक्त in computing as an attempt to ensure that the response is generated by a human being.
The process usually involves a computer asking a user to complete a simple test which the computer is able to grade.
These परीक्षण हैं designed to be आसान लिये a कंप्यूटर to generate लकिन मुश्किल लिये a कंप्यूटर to solve, लकिन again आसान लिये a इंसान.
If a correct solution is received, it can be presumed to have महरूम डाला by a human.
a आम प्रकार of captcha requires the उपयोक्ता to प्रकार अक्षर and/or अंक इससे a distorted चित्र कि appears on the स्क्रीन.
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites, since a normal human can easily read a CAPTCHA, while the bot can not process the image अक्षर और इसलिए, can not answer properly, or at all.
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated, many of them have become difficult even for a human to read, so picture CAPTCHAs were created in which a human is shown a simple test to show a picture of a certain animal ( given few animal pictures ), which is simple for a human being to process, and therefore easy to pick, while a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the picture, it can not easily guess the animal.
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by लुइस वोन Ahn, Manuel Blum, Nicholas J. Hopper, and John Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ).
It is an acronym based on the word `` कैप्चर '' और खड़ा for `` Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart ''.
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to ट्रेडमार्क the term on 15 October 2004, but the trademark application was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse Turing test, क्युकी it is administered by a machine and targeted at a human, in contrast to the standard Turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer, explorer, conservationist, filmmaker, innovator, scientist, photographer, author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water.
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung, pioneered marine conservation and was a member of the Académie française.
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast food restaurant chain headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, United States, which specializes in fried chicken.
An `` American icon '', it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as measured by sales ) after McDonald 's, with over 18,000 outlets in 120 countries and territories.
The company is a subsidiary of यम !
Brands, a restaurant company जिससे भी owns Pizza Hut and Taco Bell.
KFC was founded by Harland Sanders, who began selling fried chicken from his roadside restaurant in कोर्बिन, Kentucky during the Great Depression.
Sanders was one of the first people to see the संभावित of the restaurant franchising concept, with the first `` Kentucky Fried Chicken '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952.
The franchise popularized chicken in the fast food उद्योग, thereby diversifying the market and challenging the dominance of the hamburger.
विपणन himself as `` Colonel Sanders '', he became a legendary figure of American cultural history, and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding.
The company 's rapid expansion saw it grow too large for Sanders to manage, and in 1964 he sold the company to a group of investors led by John y. भूरा, Jr. and Jack Massey.
KFC was one of the first fast food chains to expand internationally, खोलने outlets in England, Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s और 1980s, केएफसी अनुभवी मिश्रित सौभाग्य domestically, as it गई through a श्रेणी of कॉरपोरेट स्वामी जो था छोटी or no अनुभव in the रेस्तरां कारोबार.
In the early 1970s, KFC was sold to the spirits firm Heublein, who were taken over by the R.J. Reynolds food and tobacco conglomerate, who sold the chain to PepsiCo.
The chain continued to expand विदेशी however, and in 1987 KFC became the first Western restaurant chain to open in China.
The chain has चूंकि विस्तारित rapidly in China, and the country is now the company 's most profitable market.
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants division as Tricon Global रेस्तरां, which later changed its name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स.
KFC primarily बिकता fried मुर्गा टुकड़े और विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as मुर्गा सैंडविच और wraps, सलाद और पक्ष बर्तन ऐसे as फ्रेंच फ्राइज़ और coleslaw, desserts और नरम पेय, प्रायः supplied by पेप्सिको.
Its most famous product is pressure fried chicken pieces, seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs and spices.
The exact nature of these ingredients is unknown, and represents a notable व्यापार secret.
Larger portions of fried chicken are served in a distinctive cardboard `` bucket '', which रै become a हस्ताक्षर of the कड़ी चूंकि being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman.
KFC is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin ' good '', which has since been replaced by `` Nobody does chicken like KFC '' and `` So good ''.
निडारिया ( साथ a मूक c ) or coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of पशु मिला exclusively in जलीय और ज़्यादातर समुद्री environments.
Their distinguishing विशेषता is cnidocytes, specialized cells that they use mainly for capturing prey.
Their bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like substance, sandwiched between two layers of epithelium that are mostly one cell thick.
They have two basic body forms : swimming medusae and sessile polyps, both of which are radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
दोनो फ़ॉर्म have a सिंगल orifice और देह गुहा कि हैं प्रयुक्त लिये पाचन और श्वसन.
Many cnidarian प्रजाति produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
Cnidarians ' activities are समन्वित by a decentralized nerve net and simple receptors.
Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, and some have सरल आँखें.
Not all cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have complex lifecycles with अलैंगिक polyp stages and sexual medusae, but some omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
cnidarians यहूद for a long time grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones, corals, sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa, a diverse group that includes all the freshwater cnidarians as well as many marine forms, and has both sessile members such as Hydra and colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War.
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right rather than a sub-group of Scyphozoa, and there is debate about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ).
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from plankton to animals several times larger than themselves, but many obtain much of their nutrition from endosymbiotic algae, and a few are parasites.
Many are preyed upon by other animals including starfish, sea slugs, fish and turtles.
Coral reefs, whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae, support some of the world 's most productive ecosystems, and protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
जबकि corals हैं लगभग entirely प्रतिबंधित to गरम, उथले समुद्री waters, अन्य cnidarians सजीव in the गहराइयों, in ध्रुवीय समंदर और in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rocks formed about, and other fossils show that corals may have been present shortly before and diversified a few million years later.
Fossils of cnidarians that do not build mineralized structures are very rare.
Scientists currently think that cnidarians, ctenophores and bilaterians are अधिक closely सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than these are to other sponges, and that anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians, and the most closely related to bilaterians.
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians, although माना अधिक `` आदिम '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of genes.
The Aztec Pyramid at St. cecilia Acatitlan, Mexico State.
Aztec jade mask depicting the god xipe Totec.
Large ceramic statue of an Aztec त्रिभुज Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex fejérváry-mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec people were certain ethnic groups of central Mexico, particularly those groups who spoke the Nahuatl language and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries.
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people from Aztlan ``, a mythological place for the Nahuatl-speaking culture of the time, and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people.
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan ( now the location of Mexico City ), situated on an island in Lake Texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica.
Sometimes the term also includes the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's two principal allied city-states, the Acolhuas of Texcoco and the Tepanecs of Tlacopan, who together with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire ''.
In other contexts, Aztec may refer to all the various city states and their peoples, who shared large parts of their ethnic history and cultural traits with the Mexica, Acolhua and Tepanecs, and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca.
In this meaning it is possible to talk about an Aztec civilization including all the particular cultural patterns common for most of the peoples inhabiting Central Mexico in the late postclassic period.
From the 13th सदी, the घाटी of मैक्सिको थी the दिल of एज़टेक सभ्यता : यहाँ the पूंजी of the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन, the नगर of tenochtitlan, थी निर्मित upon उठाया आइलेट in झील texcoco.
The Triple Alliance formed a tributary empire expanding its political hegemony far beyond the Valley of Mexico, conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica.
At its pinnacle, Aztec culture had rich and complex mythological and religious traditions, as well as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, along with a large number of Nahuatl speaking indigenous allies, conquered Tenochtitlan and defeated the Aztec Triple Alliance under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II.
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico City on the site of the ruined Aztec capital, from where they proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America.
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from indigenous bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such as Hernán Cortés and Bernal Díaz del Castillo ; and especially from 16th and 17th century descriptions of Aztec culture and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language, such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the सहायता of स्वदेशी Aztec informants.
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3, 1967 ) is an American journalist, author, and टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व.
He is the प्राथमिक लंगर of the CNN news show Anderson Cooper 360°.
The program is normally broadcast live from a New York नगर स्टुडियो ; however, कूपर often broadcasts live on location for breaking news stories.
As of September 2011, he also serves as host of his own eponymous syndicated daytime talk show, Anderson Live, which will be cancelled at the end of the second season.
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each band has a width of 1 standard deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7 rule
Cumulative probability of a normal distribution with expected value 0 and standard deviation 1.
In statistics and probability theory, standard deviation ( represented by the symbol sigma, σ ) shows how much variation or dispersion exists from the average ( mean ), or expected value.
A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be very close to the mean ; high standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values.
The standard deviation of a random variable, statistical population, data set, or probability distribution is the square root of its variance.
It is algebraically simpler though practically less robust than the average absolute deviation.
A useful property of standard deviation is that, unlike variance, it is expressed in the वही इकाई as the data.
Note, however, that for measurements with percentage as unit, the standard विचलन होगा have percentage points as unit.
In addition to expressing the variability of a population, standard deviation is commonly used to measure confidence in statistical conclusions.
For example, the हाशिया of error in polling data is determined by calculating the expected standard deviation in the results if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times.
The reported margin of error is typically about twice the standard deviation ­– the radius of a 95 percent confidence interval.
In science, researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data, and only effects that fall far outside the range of standard deviation are considered statistically significant – normal random गलती or variation in the measurements is in this way distinguished from causal variation.
Standard deviation is also important in finance, जहाँ the मानक विचलन on the रेट of वापसी on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment.
When only a sample of data from a population is available, the standard deviation of the population can be estimated by a modified quantity called the `` नमूना standard deviation ''.
When the sample is the entire population, its unmodified standard deviation is called the `` population standard deviation ''.
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a root vegetable, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown and economically important root crops in the Andean region of South America, second only to the potato.
It is known there with the common name of papa lisa, but also by the regional names melloco ( Ecuador ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among others.
The leaf and the tuber are edible, similar to पालक और the potato, respectively.
They are known to contain high levels of protein, calcium, and carotene.
Papalisa were used by the Incas prior to आगमन of europeans in South America.
Ulluco tubers are marketed as `` Earth Gems '' in New Zealand, by Halfords Exotic Produce.
Ulluco tubers in New Zealand
An April 24, 1851 poster warning the `` रंगीन people of Boston '' about policemen acting as slave catchers.
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the United States Congress on September 18, 1850, as part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers.
This was one of the most controversial acts of the 1850 compromise and heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` स्लेव power conspiracy ''.
It declared that all runaway slaves were, upon capture, to be returned to their masters.
Abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound Law '' for the dogs कि were used to track down runaway slaves.
Frank Joseph Pallone, Jr. ( born October 30, 1951 ) is the U.S. Representative for, serving since 1993.
He is a member of the लोकतांत्रिक Party.
He previously represented the 3rd district इससे 1988 to 1993.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a gospel duo from New Orleans, Louisiana in the United States.
The group was marketed as a gospel वैकल्पिक to r & B girl groups such as Destiny 's Child and TLC.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 has sold over 2.5 million एल्बम.
in 1998, the समूह released उनके पहला एल्बम हकदार trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे डेब्यू at # 1 on the शीर्ष इन्जील चार्ट.
The album featured the songs `` God 's Grace '' and the कवर song `` Oh !
मरियम do n't तुम रोते ''.
The एल्बम later became certified gold.
In 1999, Terri Brown left the group and was later replaced by सिंगर एड्रियन एंडरसन.
दौरान that year, the group recorded and released their second album, Spiritual Love.
The album became the group 's second # 1 album on the Top Gospel charts.
The album contained the singles `` Put Your Hands '' and `` My Body ''.
In 2002, the group released their third album The Kiss which debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts.
In 2007, the group left GospoCentric Records and signed a record deal with Spirit Rising Music.
In late 2007, Trin-i-tee 5:7 released their fifth album T57, which featured the top ten gospel single `` Listen ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the Top Gospel Albums, # 5 on the Top Christian charts, and # 12 on the Top R & B charts.
The United States federal earned income tax credit or earned income credit ( EITC or EIC ) is a refundable tax credit for low- and medium-income individuals and couples, primarily for those who have qualifying children.
When the credit exceeds the amount of taxes owed, it results in a tax refund to those who claim the credit.
This credit is provided to ऑफसेट the बोझ of social security taxes and also to promote an incentive to work.
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ), the आयु, संबंध, and shared residency requirements must be met, as well as some other requirements.
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ, 1040A, or 1040 can be used to claim EIC without qualifying children.
To claim the credit with qualifying children, 1040A or 1040 must be used, as well as attaching Schedule EIC.
eic phases in slowly, has a medium-length plateau, and then phases out more slowly than it phased in.
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ), it is always preferable to have one more dollar of actual salary or wages ( although technically, since the EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments, it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ).
For tax year 2011, the maximum EIC लिये a सिंगल व्यक्ति or couple filing without qualifying children was $ 464.
The maximum EIC with one qualifying child was $ 3,094, with two children was $ 5,112, and with three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
ये amounts are indexed annually for inflation.
The earned income tax credit has been part of political debates in the United States regarding whether raising the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better पता a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
The following is a list of halftime shows held at the National Football League 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition, the Super Bowl halftime show represents a fundamental link to pop culture, which helps broaden the television audience and nationwide interest.
In most years since the mid-1980s, the halftime show of the सुपर कटोरी रै featured popular recording artists and other well-known celebrities.
It has measurably increased television viewers during and after the halftime show.
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched events in अमरीकी टेलीविज़न annually with over 100 million viewers in the United States alone.
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad range of music types, including pop, rock, classic rock, देश, hip hop, rap, blues, and soul.
In some years, short skits or drama scenes are acted out on a stage.
The performance group Up with People has performed at the most Super Bowl halftime shows, starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s.
According to Nielsen ratings, Super Bowl XLVI halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime show in history, with 114 million दर्शक or about 3 million more than the actual game.
Beyonce 's 2013 halftime show performance was the second most viewed दिखाएँ in history.
It is listed on the Guinness World Records as the largest TV audience for a Super Bowl half-time प्रदर्शन.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय Men 's Day ( IMD ) is an annual international event celebrated on 19th November.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago, the day and its events find support from a किस्में of individuals and groups in Australia, the Caribbean, North America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO, Director of Women and Culture of Peace Ingeborg Breines said of IMD, `` This is an excellent विचार और would give some gender balance. ''
She added that UNESCO was looking forward to cooperating with the organizers.
The objectives of celebrating an International Men 's Day include focusing on men 's and boys ' health, improving gender relations, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive male role models.
It is an occasion to highlight discrimination against men and boys and to celebrate their achievements and contributions, in particular for their contributions to community, family, marriage, and child care.
the broader and ultimate aim of the event is to promote basic humanitarian values.
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries, including Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, United States, Romania, Singapore, Malta, United Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Seychelles, Burundi, Hungary, Ireland, Isle of Man, Ghana, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ukraine, France, Italy, Pakistan, Cuba, Antigua and Barbuda, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, Grenada and Cayman Islands, on 19 November, and global support for the celebration is broad.
घाटी Village ParkValley
Village is a district in the San Fernando Valley region of Los Angeles, California.
The median age of its population, at 36, is `` old for the city of Los Angeles. '' and its average household size of two people is low, compared to other parts of the city.
Developmental psychology is the scientific study of changes that occur in human beings over the course of their life span.
Originally concerned with infants and children, the field has expanded to include adolescence, adult development, aging, and the entire life span.
This field examines change across a broad range of topics including motor skills and other psycho-physiological processes ; cognitive development involving areas such as problem solving, moral understanding, and conceptual understanding ; language acquisition ; social, personality, and emotional विकास ; and self-concept and identity formation.
Developmental मनोविज्ञान शामिल मुद्दे such as the extent to which development occurs through the gradual accumulation of knowledge versus stage-like development, or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience.
Many researchers are interested in the interaction between personal characteristics, the individual 's behavior, and environmental factors including social context, and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach.
Developmental psychology informs several applied fields, including : educational psychology, child psychopathology, and forensic developmental psychology.
Developmental psychology complements several other basic research fields in psychology including social psychology, cognitive psychology, ecological psychology, and comparative psychology.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' stivic is a fictional अक्षर who first appeared on the 1970s American sitcom All in the Family.
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of Mike Stivic ( played by Rob Reiner ) and Gloria Stivic ( played by Sally Struthers ), and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ).
The character first appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part episode of All in the Family which aired in December 1975.
बाद अनेक दिखावे on सब in the परिवार until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that time, Joey had been played most often by alternating twins Jason and Justin Draeger ), the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) Archie Bunker 's Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In this instance, the character was played by child actor लंड billingsley and was appropriately pre-school age.
With Gloria now separated from माइक, वो लौटे to Archie Bunker 's Place with Joey in the February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home. ''
In this episode, Joey was played by क्रिस्टोफर Johnston.
Joey Stivic was a regular character on the All in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983.
On this series, in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker character had moved to Upstate New York in order to work as an assistant veterinarian, the भाग of Joey Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs.
After Gloria was canceled in 1983, Joey Stivic disappeared from prime time television for 11 years, until the character made one last appearance on 704 Hauser, a short-lived 1994 series about a black family who था स्थानांतरित into the बूढ़ा बंकर घर, सालो after Bunker had sold it.
In this appearance, the जॉय stivic character was played by Casey Siemaszko, an actor born in 1961 ( 14 years before Joey Stivic 's fictional birth ).
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic doll '' ( called `` Archie Bunker 's Grandson '' ) which was billed as the `` first anatomically सही male doll. ''
The doll inspired mild controversy at the time, and is a collectors ' item today.
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th edition of the annual bowl game played on January 1, 2011, as part of the 2010 college football season.
Played in Pasadena, California, the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain West Conference defeated the Wisconsin Badgers of the Big Ten Conference by a score of 21 – 19.
The Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association was the organizer of the game.
Vizio Inc. was the corporate sponsor and the game was officially named `` the रोज़ Bowl Game presented by Vizio ''.
This game marked the first time a team from a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference played in, और won, the Rose Bowl in its 97 years.
The contest was broadcast on cable television station ESPN with a radio broadcast on ESPN Radio and XM Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet.
कवरेज began at 1:30 pm ( pst ) साथ kickoff at 2:10 pm ( pst ).
This marked the first time that the game was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl, which was the first nationally televised college football game.
The Rose Bowl Game, themed Building Dreams, Friendships, & Memories, was a contractual sell-out, with 64,500 tickets allocated to the participating teams and conferences.
टिकट कीमतें लिये सब सीटे in the रोज़ कटोरी हैं सूचीबद्ध at $ 145.
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses members, sponsors, City of Pasadena निवासियों, and the general public.
The Rose Bowl स्टेडियम capacity is listed at approximately 91,000.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, which announced that the thirteen American colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र राज्य, और no longer a part of the British Empire.
बजाय वे now formed a new nation—the United States of America.
John Adams was a leader in pushing लिये independence, which was unanimously approved on July 2.
a कमेटी had already drafted the formal declaration, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft of the document, which congress would edit to produce the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national जन्मदिवस, the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4, although Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4, कॉंग्रेस जारी the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in अनेक फ़ॉर्म.
It was initially प्रकाशित as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता, is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4, the date of its हस्ताक्षर was August 2.
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence पाण्डुलिपि थी खोया जबकि all other copies have been derived from this original document.
The sources and interpretation of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances against King George III, and by asserting certain natural and legal अधिकारों, सहित a right of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence, the text of the घोषणा was initially ignored after the American Revolution.
चूंकि then, it has come to be considered a major statement on human rights, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
This has महरूम called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '', containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history. ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to which the United राज्य should strive.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who माना the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy, and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of marginalized people throughout the world.
Chitty chitty बंग बंग is a 1968 अंग्रेजों musical फिल्मी loosely आधारित on इयान फ्लेमिंग 's अनोखा.
The film 's script is by roald Dahl and Ken Hughes and its songs by the Sherman Brothers.
It stars Dick Van Dyke as Caractacus potts and Sally Ann Howes as Truly Scrumptious.
The film was directed by Ken Hughes और उत्पादित by Albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films, also based on Fleming 's novels ).
John Stears supervised the खास effects.
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the music, while the musical numbers were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood.
A region is arid when it is characterized by a severe lack of available water, to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of संयंत्र और एनिमल जीवन.
Environments subject to arid climates tend to कमी vegetation and are called xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these places include most of Africa and parts of South America and Central America.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological sign, which is associated with the constellation Cancer.
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac, between 90 and 125.25 degree of celestial longitude, which the Sun transits this area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is currently from July 21 to August 9.
The United States अध्यक्षीय election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon, while the लोकतांत्रिक Party nominated John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was नहीं योग्य for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in which all पचास of the current United States participated.
A number of factors explain why the चुनाव was so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an economic मंदी जिससे hurt the incumbent Republican, and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's जोर on his experience carried little weight, and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded अभियान organization to win the nomination, secure endorsements, and, with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
he relied on कार्यशील mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण और प्रयुक्त टेलीविज़न effectively.
This चुनाव is notable as होने the पहला समय in u.S. इतिहास कि दो बैठे u.s. सीनेटरों ( कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष और vice-president, a घटना कि रै महरूम दोहराया एकबार, by बराक ओबामा और जो बिडेन in 2008 ( in दोनो मामले, the अध्यक्ष थी the younger, अधिक जूनियर सीनेटर ).
Sherwood is a city in वॉशिंगटन County, Oregon, United States.
Located in the southeast corner of the county, it is a residential community in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland.
The population was 11,791 at the 2000 census.
According to the 2010 census, the population was 18,205 residents.
Indirectly named for the Sherwood Forest in England, it was first incorporated in 1893 as a कस्बा.
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was signed into law by अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. Bush on October 26, 2001.
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that stands for Uniting ( और ) Strengthening America ( by ) Providing Appropriate Tools Required ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001.
The act, as a जवाब to the आतंकवादी हमले of सितंबर 11th, significantly घटाया प्रतिबंध in विधि प्रवर्तन agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions, particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism, thus enlarging the number of activities to which the USA PATRIOT Act’s expanded law enforcement powers can be applied.
On May 26, 2011, President Barack Obama used an Autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011, a four-year extension of three key provisions in the USA PATRIOT Act while he was in France : roving wiretaps, searches of business records ( the `` library records provision `` ), and conducting surveillance of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related क्रियाएँ not linked to terrorist groups.
Republican leaders questioned if the उपयोग of the autopen met the constitutional requirements for signing a bill into law.
A house in Queen Anne style at 223 Avenue A.
Snohomish is a city in Snohomish County, Washington, संयुक्त States.
The population was 9,098 at the 2010 census.
The mayor of snohomish is Karen Guzak, and the City Manager is Larry Bauman.
Snohomish prides itself for its historical downtown, and was once known for its many antique shops when it was known as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest. ''
The historic business and residential center of the town constitutes the Snohomish ऐतिहासिक ज़िला, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
Many houses bear plaques with the year the house was built and the name of the family or individual who originally occupied it.
Once every year, the city gives tours of the historic houses ; one of them, the Blackman House, is a year-round museum.
A general aviation एयरफील्ड, घनघोर एयरफील्ड, is less than one mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish.
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an अमरीकी rock band that was formed in Charlottesville, Virginia, United States, in 1991.
The founding members were singer-songwriter and guitarist डेव Matthews, bassist Stefan Lessard, drummer /backing vocalist Carter Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore.
Boyd Tinsley was added to the band as a violinist soon after the band was formed.
Moore died suddenly in August 2008 due to जटिलताओं from injuries sustained in an ATV accident.
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the Flecktones has since filled Moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist.
Rashawn Ross and टिम Reynolds have also become full-time touring members of the band.
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, earning the band their fifth consecutive number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so.
Their most recent album, Away from the World, was released in 2012, and also debuted at number one on the Billboard chart.
As of 2010, the Dave Matthews Band has sold over 30 million records worldwide.
The band is known for their annual summer-long टुर of the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of their songs, accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show.
This portion of the tour has become a stamp of DMB and has grown with the band since fenton Williams began working with them in the early 1990s.
After twenty consecutive सालो of touring the band announced that it would take the summer of 2011 off.
Dave Matthews बैंड रै जीती one GRAMMY Award, and was awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award.
According to Julian Bond, `` they sell out the largest arenas on Earth, but frequently give their music away. ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter from an Unwritten Romance is a prose satire written by Louisa May Alcott, about her family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s.
The work was first published in a New York newspaper in 1873, and reprinted in 1874, 1876, and 1915 and after.
In her account, Alcott provides the real people involved with thin pseudonymous disguises.
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb, '' while his partner and community co-founder Charles Lane is `` Timon Lion ; '' Abigail May Alcott, Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife, is `` Sister Hope. ''
Alcott depicts her father as dominated by उसके अधिक forceful संगी, and both men as feckless and impractical dreamers.
The men of the community spend their time in pointless debates while Sister Hope works from dawn to dusk to maintain their existence.
A संकट arises at कटाई समय, जब the अनाज क्रॉप is threatened by an approaching तूफ़ान.
In Alcott 's words, `` परिचय the time the grain was ready to house, some call of the Oversoul wafted all the men away. ''
Sister Hope organizes the only available help, three little लड़कियों and a boy, and manages to save the crop.
The little community collapses as soon as the weather turns cold, when it becomes clear that their provisions are too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon Lion and his son abscond to join the Shakers — though Timon is unhappy to learn that life among them is `` all work and no play. ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to eat again तभी जब he realizes that his family needs him.
Sister Hope finds a way for them to subsist and persevere.
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece is paralleled in her novel, published in the same year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats. ''
`` Transcendental Wild जई '' रै been reprinted in several modern editions.
माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस is the northernmost 14,000-foot पहाड़ in the sawatch दायरा, भाग of the रॉकी kyu in Colorado.
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness near the ghost town of Holy Cross City and in Eagle County.
It was named for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the पूर्वोत्तर फेस.
अंतर्गत USDA Forest Service administration, the mountain was proclaimed `` Holy Cross National Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11, 1929.
The monument was transferred to the National Park Service in 1933.
In 1950, it was returned to the Forest Service and lost its National Monument status—the number of visitors to the mountain and the nearby `` pilgrim 's हट '' था waned, and the expense of full-time staff could not be justified.
This mountain has been the subject of painters, photographers and even a poem by हेनरी Wadsworth Longfellow, ( The Cross of Snow ).
The first publicly available photograph थी प्रकाशित in National Geographic magazine.
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil painting, which now is part of the संग्रहण of the Museum of the American West, part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles, California.
It is still much photographed but it is not as well known today as it was in the past.
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears Lake, directly under the east face of the peak, Tuhare Lakes, in a cirque that lies south of a significant subpeak, and several other lakes.
Notable locations within include the Dotsero volcano ( near Interstate 70 ), Vail and aspen.
US 24 runs near the peak through Gilman.
Photochrom print of Mount of the Holy Cross c. 1900.
This image is a reversed view of the mountain compared to कैसा it actually appears.
The first recorded ascent of Holy Cross was in 1873, by F. V. Hayden and फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. जैक्सन during one of Hayden 's geographical surveys.
However, the peak may well have been ascended previously by miners or American Indians.
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by Russel Keene and Howard Freedman of the 10th Mountain Division, then stationed at Camp Hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four different routes, with the easiest and most common route being the North Ridge, which involves of vertical gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling.
The Cross Couloir route forms the vertical portion of the famous cross feature, and provides an advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent.
Mount of the Holy Cross has a history of endangering the lives of many hikers.
Primarily, the hikers जो आवश्यकता बचाव हैं unfamiliar with the risks of entering wilderness areas and do not bring adequate equipment and supplies to respond to emergency conditions.
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day hike, unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost due to changing environmental conditions and भ्रम regarding the surrounding landscape, especially on the descent of North Ridge.
Thorough research और उचित planning should prevent most tragedies.
Mount of the Holy cross is accessible from Tigiwon Road, south of Minturn, Colorado.
The Half Moon Pass Trail is the standard route to the summit of Mount of the Holy Cross via the North लकीरें.
Following the Fall Creek Trail to an ascent of Notch Mountain Trail provides the बेहतरीन दृश्य of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge.
The GSM logo is used to identify compatible handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile संचार, originally ' ), is a standard set developed by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ( ETSI ) to describe protocols for second generation ( 2G ) digital cellular networks used by mobile phones.
It became the de facto global standard लिये mobile communications with over 80 % market share.
The GSM standard was developed as a replacement for first generation ( 1G ) analog cellular networks, and originally वर्णित a digital, circuit switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony.
This थी विस्तारित over time to include data communications, first by circuit switched transport, then packet data transport via GPRS ( General Packet Radio Services ) and EDGE ( Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ).
Further improvements were made when the 3GPP developed third generation ( 3G ) UMTS standards followed by fourth generation ( 4G ) LTE उन्नत मानकों.
`` GSM '' is a trademark owned by the GSM Association.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Lend-Lease bill to give aid to Britain and China ( 1941 )
the lend पट्टे अधिनियम थी an अधिनियम जहाँ the संयुक्त राज्य था समर्थित इसके allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a program under which the United States of अमेरिका supplied the United Kingdom, the USSR, Republic of China, Free France, and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It was signed into law on March 11, 1941, a year and a half after the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939.
This was nine months before the u.S. entered the war in December 1941.
Formally titled An Act to Further Promote the Defense of the United States, the Act effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality.
A total of $ 50.1 billion ( equivalent to $ आज ) लायक of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain, $ 11.3 billion to the Soviet Union, $ 3.2 billion to France, $ 1.6 billion to China, and smaller sums to other Allies.
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services such as rent on air bases that went to the U.S., and totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this, $ 6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth.
The terms of the agreement provided that the materiel was to be used until time for their return or destruction.
Supplies after the termination date were sold to Britain at a large discount for £1.075 billion using long-term loans from the United States.
Canada operated a समान कार्यक्रम कि भेजा $ 4.7 billion in supplies to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union.
The United States did not चार्ज for aid supplied under this legislation.
This program थी a निर्णायक कदम दूर इससे non-interventionist नीति, जिससे था वर्चस्व संयुक्त राज्य विदेशी संबंध चूंकि the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध i, towards अंतरराष्ट्रीय भागीदारी.
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), also called sunroot, sunchoke, earth apple or topinambour, is a species of sunflower native to eastern North America, and found from eastern Canada and Maine west to North Dakota, and south to northern Florida and Texas.
It is also cultivated widely across the temperate zone for its tuber, which is used as a root vegetable.
Castillo San Felipe डेल morro भी ज्ञात as Fort San Felipe del Morro or Morro Castle, is a 16th-century citadel located in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Stonehenge is a प्रागैतिहासिक monument in Wiltshire, England, about west of Amesbury and north of Salisbury.
One of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध साइट in the world, Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of standing stones set within earthworks.
It is in the middle of the most dense complex of Neolithic and Bronze Age monuments in इंग्लैण्ड, including several hundred burial mounds.
Archaeologists believe it was built anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the first stones were raised between 2400 and 2200 BC, whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have been raised at the site as early as 3000 BC.
The surrounding circular earth bank and ditch, which constitute the earliest phase of the monument, have महरूम दिनाँक to about 3100 BC.
The site and its surroundings were added to the UNESCO 's list of संसार विरासत Sites in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge.
It is a national legally protected Scheduled Ancient Monument.
Stonehenge is स्वामित्व by the क्राउन और प्रबंधित by अंग्रेज़ी विरासत, जबकि the surrounding जमीन is स्वामित्व by the नेशनल विश्वास.
Archaeological evidence found by the Stonehenge Riverside Project in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings.
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that deposits contain human bone from as early as 3000 BC, when the ditch and bank were first dug.
ऐसे जमा जारी at stonehenge लिये at तनिक another 500 सालो.
The site is a place of religious significance and यात्राएं in Neo-Druidry.
The NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an annual college बास्केट tournament for women.
Held each April, the Women 's Championship was inaugurated in the 1981–82 season.
the ncaa tournament was preceded by the AIAW Women 's Basketball Tournament, which was held annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball was one of twelve women 's sports added to the NCAA championship program for the 1981-82 school year, as the NCAA engaged in battle with the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports.
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the same twelve ( and other ) sports ; however, after a year of dual women 's championships, the NCAA prevailed, while the AIAW disbanded.
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the years, especially since 2003, when the final championship game was moved to the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game.
The women 's championship game is now the final overall game of the कॉलेज basketball season.
Before that, the Women 's Final Four was usually played on the Friday before the Men 's Final Four or the hours before the men played on the final Saturday of the tournament.
The final was usually निभाई the संडे afternoon following the Men 's Final Four.
The tournament bracket is made up of champions from each प्रभाग I conference, which receive automatic bids.
the बाकी स्लॉट हैं at-large बोलियों, साथ टीमों चुनी by an ncaa चयन committee.
The selection process and tournament seedings are based on several factors, including team rankings, win-loss records and Ratings Percentage Index ( RPI ) data.
Unlike the men 's tournament, there are only 32 at-large bids ( as of the next tournament in 2014 ), and no play-in game.
The women 's tournament, like the men 's, is staged in a single elimination format, and is part of the media and public frenzy known colloquially as March Madness or The Big Dance.
All 63 games have been broadcast on television since 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2.
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS, local teams are shown on each channel when available, with `` whip-around '' coverage designed to शोकेस the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी contests in the rest of the country.
The rosetta Stone in the British Museum
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V.
The decree appears in three scripts : the upper text is Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs, the middle portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient Greek.
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts ( with some minor मतभेद between them ), it provided the key to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Originally displayed within a temple, the stone was probably moved during the early Christian or मध्यकालीन period and eventually used as building material in the construction of Fort Julien near the town of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta.
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by a soldier, Pierre-François Bouchard, of the French expedition to Egypt.
as the पहला Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times, the Rosetta Stone aroused widespread public interest with its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language.
Lithographic copies and plaster casts began circulating among European museums and scholars.
Meanwhile, British troops defeated the French in Egypt in 1801, and the original stone came into British possession under the capitulation of Alexandria.
transported to London, it has been on public display at the British Museum since 1802.
It is the most-visited object in the अंग्रेजों Museum.
Ever since its rediscovery, the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries, including its ट्रांसफ़र from French to British possession during the Napoleonic Wars, a long-running dispute over the relative value of Young 's and Champollion 's contributions to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands for the stone 's return to Egypt.
Study of the decree was already under way as the first full translation of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
It was 20 years, however, before the transliteration of the Egyptian स्क्रिप्ट was announced by Jean-François Champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before scholars were able to read Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently.
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the same text ( 1799 ) ; that the demotic text used phonetic characters to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text did so as well, and had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas Young, 1814 ) ; and that, in addition to being used for foreign names, phonetic characters were also used to spell native मिश्र शब्द ( champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were discovered later, and several similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions are now known, including two slightly earlier Ptolemaic decrees ( the Decree of Canopus in 238 BC, and the Memphis decree of Ptolemy IV, ca. 218 BC ).
The Rosetta स्टोन is इसलिए no longer अद्वितीय, लकिन it थी the अनिवार्य कुंजी to आधुनिक समझना of प्राचीन मिश्र साहित्य और सभ्यता.
The term Rosetta Stone is now used in other contexts as the name for the essential clue to a new field of knowledge.
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog, poison frog or formerly poison arrow frog ) is the common name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America.
These species are diurnal and often have brightly रंगीन bodies.
Although all wild dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic, levels of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the next और from one population to another.
Many species are threatened.
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs '' due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of their to poison the tips of blowdarts.
however, of over 175 प्रजाति, तभी चार have महरूम प्रलेखित as होने प्रयुक्त लिये इस purpose ( curare पौधे हैं अधिक commonly प्रयुक्त ), सब of जिससे आइये इससे the phyllobates genus, जिससे is characterized by the अपेक्षाकृत विशाल आकार और ऊँची स्तर of toxicity of इसके सदस्यों.
Cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened syrup usually made of sweetened caramelised milk.
according to शेफ़ रिक bayless, the नाम लिये cajeta आए इससे the स्पेनी phrase al punto de cajeta, जिससे अर्थात् `` a द्रव thickened to the पाइंट at जिससे a चमचा drawn through the द्रव reveals the नीचे of the घट in जिससे it is होने पकाया ''.
Another hypothesis is that it takes its name from the small wooden boxes in which it was traditionally packed.
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato, although it is also produced with the traditional method in several towns of the state of Jalisco, such as Mazamitla, Sayula, and Atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk, or occasionally a sweetened liquid, stirring frequently, until it becomes very viscous due to evaporation of water, and caramelized.
While goat milk is the most usual base, other liquids or juices may be used.
In Celaya, and eventually the rest of Mexico, the confection of half goat 's milk and half cow 's milk became known by the name cajeta, but elsewhere, the milk candy became known as leche quemada, dulce de leche, etc.
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based sweets like pera and the milk fudge burfi, and in the opera fudge of the U.S. Cajeta is eaten on its own as a sweet, as a spread or filling for breads and pastries, such as churros, and as a topping for ice cream.
निश्चित liquors are added to special recipes called cajeta envinada.
In addition, cajeta envinada especial is enriched with raisins, almonds, pecans or nuts.
Often it is used as a topping for crêpes, as a sweet sauce boiled and softened down with milk to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty dessert.
In मैक्सिको many brands make cajeta but the most common brand is Coronado.
It is also very common to place cajeta between obleas to make a traditional मैक्सिकन मिठाई.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder son of Charles, Prince of Wales, and Diana, Princess of Wales, and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United Kingdom and obtained a degree from the विश्वविद्यालयों of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, Belize, Tanzania, and Kenya जहाँ he has lived and holidayed several times.
प्रिंस विलियम रै भी लिया kiswahili अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in कीनिया और तंजानिया.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the household प्यादे —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, थी प्रचारित to उड़ान Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and गई on to RAF Valley on No. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married his longtime गर्लफ्रेंड, Catherine Middleton, on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to his wedding, Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge, Earl of strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
Mali is a बहुभाषी country.
The languages spoken वहीँ प्रतिबिंबित प्राचीन settlement patterns, migrations, and its long history.
ऍथनोलॉग counts 50 languages.
Of ये, फ्रेंच is the आधिकारिक भाषा और bambara is the सबसे widely बोला.
Altogether 13 of the indigenous भाषाएं of माली have the legal status of national language.
Sign in French, at a स्मारक in Bamako.
{ { infobox Holiday
Chinese New Year
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( Vietnam )
Rogers Building, the मुख्यालय of Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified public Canadian communications and media company.
It is particularly in the field of wireless communications, cable television, telephone, and Internet connectivity with significant additional telecommunications and mass media assets.
The company is headquartered in the रोजर्स Building in Toronto, Ontario.
The company claims the heritage of the Rogers Vacuum Tube Company, founded in 1925 by Edward Rogers, which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto, which was later acquired by outside interests.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, when Rogers ' son, Ted Rogers, founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd.
That company acquired CHFI that year, as well as Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting, a partnership with Joel Aldred which helped लॉन्च cfto in 1961.
रोजर्स बाद खरीदा आउट aldred और प्रारंभ the वर्तमान केबल और बेतार परिचालन, ज्ञात as रोजर्स cablesystems ltd.
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada, which has a similarly extensive portfolio of radio and television media assets, as well as wireless, television distribution, and telephone services, particularly in Eastern and Central Canada ; the two companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions.
However, the company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless services, and primarily indirectly with Shaw Communications for television service.
The company also competes with a number of other media companies in the broadcasting industry.
The अंतरजाल is a वैश्विक प्रणाली of interconnected कंप्यूटर संजाल कि उपयोग the मानक अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) to serve अरबों of उपयोक्ता विश्वव्यापी.
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private, public, academic, business, and government networks, of local to global scope, that are linked by a broad array of electronic, wireless and optical networking technologies.
The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and services, such as the inter-linked hypertext documents of the World Wide Web ( WWW ) and the infrastructure to support email.
Most traditional communications media including telephone, music, film, and television are being reshaped or redefined by the अंतरजाल, giving birth to new services such as voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ).
Newspaper, book and other print publishing are adapting to वेब साईट technology, or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
The Internet has सक्रिय और त्वरित new forms of human interactions through instant messaging, Internet forums, and social networking.
Online shopping has boomed both for major retail आउटलेट और छोटी artisans and traders.
Business-to-business and financial सेवाएं on the Internet affect supply chains across entire industries.
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the United States government in the 1960s to build robust, fault-tolerant communication via computer networks.
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the नेशनल विज्ञान न्यास in the 1980s, as well as private funding for other commercial backbones, led to worldwide participation in the development of new networking technologies, and the merger of many networks.
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an international network resulted in its popularization and incorporation into virtually every aspect of modern human life.
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a तीसरा of the संसार 's इंसान जनसांख्यिकी —have प्रयुक्त the सेवाएं of the Internet ; approximately 100 times more people than were using it in 1995, when it was mostly used by tech-savvy middle and upper class people in the United States and several other countries.
The Internet has no centralized governance in either technological implementation or policies for access and usage ; each constituent network sets its own policies.
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name spaces in the Internet, the Internet Protocol address space and the Domain Name System, are directed by a maintainer organization, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ).
The technical underpinning and standardization of the core protocols ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF ), a non-profit organization of loosely affiliated international participants that anyone may associate with by contributing technical expertise.
The 2006 Winter Olympics, officially known as the XX Olympic Winter Games, was a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated in Turin, Italy from February 10, 2006, through February 26, 2006.
This marked the second time Italy hosted the Olympic Winter Games, the first being the VII ओलम्पिक Winter Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956.
Italy भी hosted the Games of the XVII Olympiad in Rome in 1960.
टोरीनो was selected as the host city for the 2006 games in 1999.
The official logo प्रदर्शित the name `` Torino '', the Italian name of the city ; the city is known as `` Turin '' in both English and the local traditional language, Piedmontese.
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` snow '' in Italian ), a female snowball, and Gliz, a male ice cube.
The official motto of the XX ओलम्पिक Winter Games was `` Passion lives here ''.
`` Help ! '' is a song by the Beatles that served as the title song for both the 1965 फिल्मी और its soundtrack album.
It was also released as a single, and was number one for three weeks in both the United States and the United किंगडम.
`` Help ! '' was written primarily by John Lennon, but credited to Lennon–McCartney.
During an interview with Playboy in 1984, Paul McCartney stated that the title was `` out of desperation ''.
Poster for the 2005 प्रदर्शनी
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), who usually gave his name as S. Bing, and was thus often referenced erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( Samuel Otto Bing, 1850–1905, was his brother ) was a German art dealer who lived in Paris as an adult, and who helped introduce Japanese art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century.
तुलना of male and female life expectancy at birth for countries and territories as defined in the 2011 CIA Factbook, with selected bubbles labelled.
The dotted line corresponds to बराबर मादा and male life expectancy.
The apparent 3D volumes of the बुलबुले are linearly proportional to their population.
This is a सूची of countries by life expectancy at birth.
Kennewick is a city in Benton County in the southeastern part of the u.S. state of Washington, near the Hanford nuclear site.
It is the most populous of the three cities collectively referred to as the Tri-Cities ( the others being Pasco and Richland ).
Kennewick is located along the southwest bank of the Columbia River, opposite Pasco and just south of the confluence of the Columbia and yakima नदियाँ.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 73,917 at the 2010 census.
April 1, 2012 estimates from the Washington State Office of Financial Management put the city 's population at 75,160.
The nearest commercial airport is the Tri-Cities Airport in Pasco, a regional commercial and private airport.
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 क्षेत्रफल in the United States for job growth, while nearby Yakima was named # 1.
The article cites the number of वैज्ञानिकों employed by the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and area farmland for this outlook.
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and its derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and international normalized ratio ( INR ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
This test is also called `` ProTime INR '' and `` PT/INR ''.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the माप of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and vitamin K status.
PT measures factors I ( fibrinogen ), II ( prothrombin ), v, सात, and X.
It is used in conjunction with the activated आंशिक thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) which measures the intrinsic pathway.
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love '' is a popular song.
The music was written by Jimmy McHugh, the lyrics by Dorothy Fields.
The song was published in 1935.
It was introduced by Frances Langford in the movie Every Night at Eight released that year.
The song was featured in the 1936 Our Gang ( Little Rascals ) short, The Pinch Singer, sung by Carl `` Alfalfa '' switzer, and in the 1936 film Palm Springs.
It is often known to be Switzer 's signature song.
James मूडी 's saxophone solo on a 1952 recording of this song inspired the song `` Moody 's Mood for Love ``.
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves ( 1999 ), with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics.
The song 's title inspired the English title of Wong Kar Wai 's movie in the मनोदशा लिये Love.
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human behavior and दिमागी processes, including both their variability and invariance, under diverse cultural conditions.
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize cultural variance in behavior, language, and meaning it seeks to extend and develop psychology.
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed largely in North America, some psychologists became concerned that constructs स्वीकृत as सार्वभौमिक यहूद नहीं as invariant as previously assumed, especially since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success.
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes, such as affect, cognition, conceptions of the self, and issues such as psychopathology, anxiety, and depression, may lack external validity when `` exported '' to other cultural contexts, cross-cultural psychology re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and claim that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases used impede rather than help the scientific search for universal सिद्धान्त in मनोविज्ञान, cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur, rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry.
In 1972 the International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology ( IACCP ) was स्थापित.
This branch of psychology has continued to expand as there has महरूम an increasing popularity of incorporating culture and diversity into studies.
Cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान is differentiated from Cultural psychology.
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds that human behavior is significantly influenced by cultural differences, meaning that psychological phenomena can only be compared with each other across संस्कृतियों to a very limited extent.
In contrast, cross-cultural psychology includes a search for possible universals in behavior and mental processes.
Walter J. Lonner, writing for Eye on Psi Chi, has stated कि `` cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान can be thought of as a type research methodology, rather than an entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, from उसके दूसरी studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ).
it थी released by interscope Records on April 15, 2011, four days ahead of its scheduled release.
Written and उत्पादित by Lady Gaga and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past, and its core meaning refers to the negative भाग of her life that she ca n't escape.
Gaga has further explained that the song was भी परिचय honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light.
the कलाकृति लिये the सिंगल थी designed by गागा in microsoft शब्द.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों, who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks, including `` Poker Face ``, `` lovegame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains three distinct hooks and a house -influenced ब्रेक bas.
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption, regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य of कया a स्त्री चाहिए be.
`` Judas '' initially था a strong sales opening, but was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets, and also reached the top of the चार्ट in South Korea.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene.
The video portrays them as आधुनिक day missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying यीशु, और ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
पहले इसके रिलीज, the कैथोलिक लीग condemned गागा लिये the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके भूमिका in the वीडियो.
However, critics generally praised the video, not finding any offensive content.
The video was nominated for two पुरस्कार at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows, including The Graham Norton Show, Saturday Night Live, Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for video compression, and is फिलहाल एक of the सबसे commonly used formats for the recording, compression, and distribution of high definition video.
The फाइनल drafting work on the first version of the standard was completed in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -based codec standard developed by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts Group ( VCEG ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ).
The project साझेदारी प्रयत्न is known as the Joint Video Team ( JVT ).
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the ISO/IEC MPEG-4 AVC standard ( formally, ISO/IEC 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part 10, Advanced Video Coding ) are jointly maintained so that they have identical technical content.
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the codec standards for Blu-ray Discs ; all Blu-ray Disc players must be able to decode H.264.
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources, such as videos from Vimeo, YouTube, and the iTunes Store, web software such as the Adobe Flash Player और microsoft silverlight, and also various HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC, ISDB-T, DVB-T or DVB-T2 ), cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
Non-binding arbitration is a type of arbitration in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the parties to the dispute, but इस determination is नहीं बाइंडिंग upon उन्हें, और no enforceable arbitration award is issued.
The `` award '' is in effect an advisory opinion of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of the parties cases.
Non-binding मध्यस्थता is used in connection with attempts to reach a negotiated settlement.
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is, on the surface, similar to that of a mediator in a mediation.
However, the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the उपनिवेश प्रक्रम and will only give a determination of liability and, if appropriate, an indication of the quantum of damages payable.
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration, the parties remain free to pursue their claims either through the courts, or by way of a binding arbitration, although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome.
The award and reasoning in a non-binding मध्यस्थता is लगभग invariably inadmissible in any subsequent action in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal.
non-binding मध्यस्थता is utilised ज़्यादातर in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा.
It is largely unknown in Europe, although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement to jointly instruct a Queen 's Counsel for an opinion on the merits and likely quantum of a claim, and तब to negotiate on the आधार of the views expressed in that opinion.
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on Augustine Island in southwestern Cook Inlet in the Kenai Peninsula Borough of southcentral coastal Alaska, southwest of Anchorage.
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of Concern Color Code Green for aviation and the Volcano Alert Level is at Normal.
Augustine Island has a land area of, while West Island, just off Augustine 's western shores, has.
The island is made up mainly of past फटना deposits.
Scientists have been able to discern that past dome collapse has resulted in विशाल avalanches.
A map of बेलीज़.
The country of Belize has roughly 386 km of coastline, and has many coral reefs, cays, and islands in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of these form the Belize Barrier Reef, the longest in the western hemisphere stemming approximately.
The reef and its islands have महरूम a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1996.
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to region but all of which are in the caribbean Sea.
Most of the islands variate in spelling between `` cay '' and `` caye '', and also use the Spanish `` cayo ''.
नदी islands have not been listed.
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet writing application for the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc data भंडार डिवाइस to be प्रयुक्त in a manner similar to floppy disks.
dla is a पैकेट writing technology for CD and DVD media that uses the UDF file system.
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista and newer, although a patch exists to fix this issue under Windows Vista.
Roxio Burn थी introduced on April 30, 2009.
As a replacement for DLA, it remedies संगतता issues Internet Explorer 8.
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13, 1919 – September 21, 2007 ) थी a well-known American television evangelist whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown on over 600 stations at the peak of its popularity.
असीमित is a 2011 अमरीकी थ्रिलर फिल्मी निर्देशित by neil बर्गर और अभिनीत ब्राडली कूपर, abbie cornish, और रॉबर्ट de Niro.
It is based on the 2001 novel The Dark Fields by Alan Glynn with the screenplay by Leslie Dixon.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North अमरीकी महाद्वीप, साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary with Canada to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area, the 4th तनिक populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 निवासियों सजीव within the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil, natural gas, and fishing industries ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, और the 49th राज्य of the u.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it was used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, अधिक वस्तुतः, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as Alyeska, the `` great land '', an Aleut word निकला इससे the वही root.
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University ( NMMU ) is a South African tertiary education institution with its main administration in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth.
A merging of तीन institutions founded NMMU in January 2005 but its history dates back to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School.
The University draws international students from all over the world.
There are over 3000 international विद्यार्थी और शामिल विद्यार्थी इससे the United States, France, China, Germany, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and many other countries.
NMMU is a comprehensive विश्वविद्यालयों offering professional and vocational training.
The University has six campuses - five in Port Elizabeth and one in George.
The main campus is the South Campus.
Students at NMMU can study towards diplomas and degrees up to and सहित doctoral level qualifications.
A number of पाठ्यक्रम include workplace experience as part of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an American cosmetics brand founded in Maryland, by the Noxzema Chemical Company ( later called Noxell ) and acquired by procter & Gamble in 1989.
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing `` cover girls '', fashion models who appear on the front cover of women 's magazines, to wear its products.
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual customer service by providing a wide variety of cosmetics available at reasonable prices.
On the Origin of Species, published on 24 November 1859, is a work of scientific literature by Charles Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology.
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the संघर्ष लिये जीवन.
For the छठे संस्करण of 1872, the short title was changed to The Origin of Species.
डार्विन 's किताब introduced the वैज्ञानिक सिद्धान्त कि populations evolve over the कोर्स of पीढियां through a प्रक्रम of प्राकृतिक चयन.
It presented a body of evidence that the diversity of life arose by common descent through a branching pattern of evolution.
Darwin included evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s and his subsequent findings from research, correspondence, and experimentation.
विभिन्न evolutionary ideas had already been proposed to explain new findings in biology.
There थी growing support लिये ऐसे विचार among dissident anatomists and the general public, but during the first half of the 19th century the English scientific establishment was closely tied to the Church of England, while science was part of natural theology.
Ideas about the transmutation of species were विवादास्पद as वे विरोधी साथ the मान्यताओं that species were unchanging parts of a designed hierarchy and that humans were unique, unrelated to other animals.
The political and theological implications were intensely debated, लकिन transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream.
The book was written लिये non-specialist readers and attracted widespread interest upon its publication.
As Darwin was an eminent scientist, his findings were taken seriously and the evidence he presented generated scientific, philosophical, and religious discussion.
The debate over the book contributed to the campaign by T.H. Huxley and his fellow members of the X Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism.
Within two decades there was widespread scientific agreement that evolution, with a branching pattern of common descent, had occurred, लकिन वैज्ञानिकों यहूद slow to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate.
During the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` इससे the 1880s to the 1930s, various other mechanisms of evolution were given more credit.
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s, Darwin 's concept of evolutionary adaptation through natural selection became central to modern evolutionary theory, अभी the unifying concept of the life sciences.
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; July 30, 1890 – September 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The Old perfessor '', was an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager.
He was elected to the Baseball Hall of कीर्ति in.
Stengel was born in Kansas City, Missouri, and originally nicknamed `` Dutch '', a common nickname at that time for Americans of German ancestry.
After his major league career began, he acquired the उपनाम `` केसी '', which originally came from the initials of his hometown ( `` K. C. '' ), which evolved into `` Casey '', influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat.
In the 1950s, sportswriters उतावले उसे with yet another nickname, `` The Old Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball -related.
Although his baseball career spanned a number of teams and cities, he is primarily associated with clubs in New York City.
Between playing and managing, he is the only man to have worn four of New York 's major league clubs ' uniforms.
He was the first of four men ( through the season ) to manage both the New York Yankees and New York मेट्स ; योगी Berra, Dallas Green, and Joe Torre are the others.
Like टोरेस, he also managed the Braves and the Dodgers.
He ended his baseball career as the beloved manager for the then expansion New York Mets, which won over the hearts of New York partly due to the unique character of their veteran leader.
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars and one of the four months with a length of 30 days.
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name in his poem concerning the months entitled the Fasti.
the पहला is कि the माह is नामित बाद the रोमन देवी juno, बीवी of बृहस्पति और समतुल्य to the यूनानी देवी hera ; the दूसरी is कि the नाम आता इससे the लैटिन शब्द iuniores, अर्थ `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` बड़ो '' ) लिये जिससे the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the June is the माह साथ the longest daylight hours of the year in the Northern Hemisphere and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere.
June in the Northern गोलार्ध is the मौसमी समतुल्य to दिसम्बर in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध और वाइस versa.
In the Northern hemisphere, the beginning of the meteorological summer is 1 जून.
In the Southern hemisphere, the beginning of the meteorological winter is 1 June.
At the start of June, the sun rises in the constellation of Taurus ; at the end of June, the sun rises in the constellation of Gemini.
However, due to the precession of the equinoxes, June begins with the sun in the astrological sign of Gemini, and ends with the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer.
June is known for the large number of marriages that occur over the कोर्स of the month.
According to one etymology, June is named after Juno ( hera ).
Juno was the goddess of marriage and a married युगल 's household, so some consider it good luck to be married in this month.
According to another etymology provided by the रोमन poet Ovid, June is named for the iuniores, latin for `` young people '' ( Fasti VI.88 ) and that the month of May is named for the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
in आइसलैंड, लोकगीत says कि if तुम bathe नग्न in the morning ओस on the morning of जून 24, तुम हैं supposed to रखना वृद्धावस्था at खाड़ी लिये longer.
A constitution is a set of fundamental principles or established precedents according to which a state or other संगठन is governed.
These rules together make up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is.
When these principles are written down into a single document or set of legal documents, those documents may be said to embody a written constitution ; if they are written down in a single comprehensive document, it is said to embody a codified constitution.
Constitutions concern different levels of organizations, from sovereign states to companies and unincorporated associations.
A सन्धि जिससे establishes an international organization is also its constitution, in that it would define how that organization is constituted.
Within states, whether sovereign or federated, a संविधान defines the principles upon which the state is based, the procedure in which laws are made and by whom.
Some constitutions, especially codified constitutions, also act as limiters of state power, by establishing लाइनों which a state 's rulers can not cross, such as fundamental rights.
George Washington at Constitutional Convention of 1787, signing of U.S. Constitution.
The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution of any sovereign देश in the संसार, containing 448 आलेख, 12 schedules and 100 amendments, with 117,369 words in its English language version, while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution, at 7 articles and 27 amendments.
Ron Diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training session in the Space Environment Simulation Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space Center.
Engineering प्रबन्धन is a specialized रूप of प्रबन्धन that is concerned with the application of engineering principles to business practice.
Engineering management is a career that brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of engineering and the organizational, प्रशासनिक, और नियोजन abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion.
Example areas of engineering are product development, manufacturing, construction, design engineering, industrial engineering, technology, production, or any other field कि employs personnel who perform an engineering function.
Successful engineering managers typically require training and experience in business and engineering.
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their तकनीकी टोली, और non-commercial managers tend to lack commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy.
Largely, engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by non-entrepreneurial thinking, thus require the necessary people skills to coach, mentor and motivate technical professionals.
Engineering professionals joining manufacturing companies sometimes become engineering managers by default after a period of time.
They are required to learn how to मैनेज once they are on the job, though this is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities.
In an insurance नीति, the deductible is the amount of expenses that must be paid out of pocket before an insurer will pay any expenses.
In general usage, the term deductible may be used to describe one of several types of clauses ( see below ) that are used by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments.
Deductibles are typically used to deter the large number of trivial दावा कि a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of.
By restricting its coverage to कार्यक्रम कि हैं significant पर्याप्त to incur large costs, the insurance firm expects to pay out slightly smaller amounts much less frequently, incurring much higher savings.
As a result, insurance premiums are typically cheaper when they involve higher deductibles.
Deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an बीमे policy that dictate how much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder.
They are normally quoted as a fixed quantity and is a part of most policies covering losses to the policy holder.
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses that exceed this amount ( subject to the maximum sum claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the policy, the deductible may लागू per covered incident, or per year.
For policies where incidences are not easy to delimit ( for example health insurance ), the deductible is typically applied per year.
Several deductibles can be नियत by the insurer based on the cause of the claim.
लिये उदाहरण, a सिंगल आवास बीमे नीति may contain अनेक deductible amounts लिये घाटा or क्षति arising इससे चोरी, आग, प्राकृतिक calamities, निकासी इत्यादि.
There are also deductible reimbursement programs that reimburse a deductible in the event of an auto, home, boat/yacht or health insurance claim.
An invoice or bill is a commercial document issued by a seller to a buyer, indicating the products, quantities, and agreed prices for उत्पाद or सेवाएं the seller has provided the buyer.
An चालान indicates the sale transaction only.
Payment terms are independent of the invoice and are negotiated by the buyer and the seller.
Payment terms are प्रायः included on the invoice.
The buyer could have already paid for the products or services listed on the invoice.
Buyer can also have a maximum number of days in which to pay for these goods and is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date.
In the rental industry, an invoice must include a specific reference to the duration of the time being billed, so in addition to quantity, price and discount the invoicing amount is also based on duration.
generally प्रत्येक लकीर of a rental चालान होगा refer to the वास्तविक घंटों, दिनों, सप्ताह, महीने, etc., होने billed.
From the point of view of a seller, an invoice is a sales invoice.
From the point of view of a buyer, an invoice is a purchase invoice.
the दस्तावेज़ indicates the buyer and seller, but the term invoice indicates money is owed or owing.
In English, the context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify इसके अर्थ, such as `` We sent them an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from them '' ( we owe them money ).
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or right principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
It is wider, shorter, and more vertical in दिशा than the left.
It is about 2.5 cm long, and enters the right lung nearly opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra.
The azygos vein arches over it from behind ; and the right pulmonary artery lies at first below and then in front of it.
About 2 cm from its शुरुआत it gives off a branch to the upper lobe of the right lung.
This is termed the eparterial branch of the bronchus, because it arises above the right pulmonary artery.
The bronchus now passes below the artery, and is known as the hyparterial branch ; it divides into two branches for the middle and lower lobes.
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the trachea, it will most संभावित enter the right main bronchus instead of the left, due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the trachea.
Squash is a racquet sport played by two ( singles ) or four players ( doubles ) in a four-walled court with a small, hollow rubber ball.
The players must alternate in striking the ball with their racquet and hit the ball onto the playable सतहों of the four walls of the court.
The game was formerly called squash racquets, a reference to the `` squashable '' soft ball used in the game ( compared with the fatter ball used in its parent game racquets or rackets ).
Squash is recognized by the IOC and supporters are lobbying for its incorporation in a future Olympic program.
In 2003, Forbes rated squash as the number एक healthiest sport to play.
अवशेष आयल is आयल मिला in कम एकाग्रता naturally or in बेहाल आयल fields.
Often mixed with water, it can not be recovered by conventional तकनीकों.
however, it can be बरामद using कार्बन dioxide-enhanced oil recovery ( CO2 EOR ) which involves injecting carbon dioxide into the well reducing viscosity and enhancing flow of the oil.
The technique is not नई लकिन रै not been used extensively on residual oil zones, low-grade deposits of petroleum such as the 38 square miles in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr.
The technique is limited by उपलब्धता of carbon dioxide.
It does not result in sequestration of the carbon dioxide but the gas is recycled as much as possible.
United States reserves of अवशेष oil are estimated to be 100 billion barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the fire, by John R. Chapin, originally मुद्रित in Harper 's Weekly ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge.
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration that burned from Sunday, October 8, to early Tuesday, अक्तूबर 10, 1871, killing hundreds and destroying about in Chicago, Illinois.
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century, the पुनर्निर्माण that began helped develop Chicago as one of the most populous and economically important American cities.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death.
he was lord, and later king, of Ireland, as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the second monarch of the Tudor dynasty, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six विवाह, हेनरी viii is known for his role in the separation of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the विरह of the Church of England from papal authority, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological teachings, even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximillian I, and invaded France in 1513 with a large, well-equipped army, but achieved little at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his part, used the English आक्रमण to his own ends, and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession for Henry, who invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman Emperor, चार्ल्स v, समर्थित हेनरी only as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, educated and accomplished king, and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic शासकों to बैठना on the अंग्रेज़ी throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he भी engaged himself as an author and composer.
उसके ख्वाहिश to provide इंग्लैण्ड साथ a पुरूष वारिस – जिससे stemmed partly इससे निजी वैनिटी और partly क्युकी he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the गुलाब – led to the दो बाते लिये जिससे हेनरी is सबसे remembered : उसके छह विवाह और the अंग्रेज़ी reformation.
हेनरी became morbidly obese and his health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in his later life as a lustful, egotistical, हर्ष, and insecure king.
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United States टेलीविज़न संजाल telemundo, in conjunction with the Antena 3 network and RTI Producciones.
Based on a novel of the same name by Spanish author Arturo Pérez-Reverte, the drama depicts the rise of Teresa Mendoza ( Kate del Castillo ), a young woman from Mexico who becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain.
Patricio wills, the अध्यक्ष of Telemundo Television Studios, was the executive producer.
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for Novela of the Year, Favorite Lead Actress, and Best Bad Luck Video, it won no awards.
With a $ 10 million budget, La Reina del Sur was the सबसे महंगी telenovela ever produced by Telemundo.
The program 's प्रीमियर on February 28, 2011, was the network 's highest rated premiere for a telenovela to date.
The कार्यक्रम अक्सर dominated its time slot, even over English language programming on other major U.S. networks.
La Reina del Sur completed its 63 episode run on Telemundo and its 13 episode run on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in Telemundo 's 19-year history ( 4.2 लाख viewers ), and beat all of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic.
The program 's success spurred Telemundo to launch its first campaign to gain the series an Emmy Award nomination.
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on may 31, 2011, and marked the Telemundo debut of noted Latina television personality Cristina Saralegui.
La Reina del Sur is ब्रॉडकास्ट in अनेक अन्य बाज़ार, सहित Serbia, Colombia, Chile, Cyprus, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Mexico, Albania, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Romania, ( among others ).
An example of रैक mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals और संगठन to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by clients, as well as providing Internet connectivity, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other servers located in their data center, called colocation, also known as Housing in Latin America or France.
The scope of web hosting services varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting, where files can be अपलोड via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or साथ minimal processing.
Many Internet service providers ( isps ) offer this service free to subscribers.
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page होस्टिंग from alternative service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the आकार and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient for personal web pages.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and application development platforms ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for applications like forums and content management.
Also, Secure sockets परत ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts, as well as other modules and सेवा applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden Football before 1993 ) is an American football video game series विकसित by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला Tiburon for EA Sports.
The game series is named बाद प्रो Football Hall of Famer John Madden, a well-known former Super Bowl –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator.
The series is the best selling EA Sports श्रेणी.
the खेल have consistently been a best seller, and has even spawned TV shows where players compete.
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and player statistics, and voice commentary that allows खिलाड़ी to सुन the game as if it were a real TV broadcast.
The Madden NFL series has been nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd Franchise.
The series was originally conceived by Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins, जो then approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise.
Due to Madden 's insistence कि the game be as realistic as possible, the first version of John Madden Football was not released until 1988.
The second version of the game was released in 1990, with annual versions since then.
The series ' name was changed to Madden NFL in 1993 after EA acquired the rights to use NFL teams and players.
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009, he continues to lend his name and provide expertise for the game.
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born July 10, 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist whose son, U.S. Army Specialist Casey Sheehan, was killed by enemy कार्रवाई during the Iraq War.
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift शिविर बाहर अध्यक्ष George W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a stand that drew both passionate support and angry criticism.
Sheehan भागा unsuccessfully for Congress in 2008.
She is a vocal critic of President Barack Obama 's foreign policy.
Her memoir, Peace Mom : A Mother 's Journey Through Heartache to सक्रियता, थी published in 2006.
sheehan थी the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the सलाम और स्वतंत्रता पार्टी.
Wyclef jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME, Aug 21, 2010.
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was running for President of Haiti, Wyclef Jean थी स्टिल listing his age as only 37 years old.
But बाद declaring खुद a अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी, the haitian-american-irish hip-hop स्टार भी decided to आइये साफ और confirm कि he थी वाकई 40. '' is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning haitian-american rapper, singer-songwriter, संगीतकार, रिकार्ड निर्माता, और राजनेता.
At age nine, Jean moved to the United States with his family and has spent much of his life in the देश.
He first प्राप्त कीर्ति as a member of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees.
On August 5, 2010, Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 Haitian presidential election, although the Electoral Commission subsequently ruled him ineligible to stand as he had not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five years.
Wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti election ruling – BBC News, Aug 22, 2010.
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was अयोग्य to स्टैंड as the haitian संविधान requires candidates to have lived in the country for five years prior to an election.
The 40-year-old singer lives in the US.
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief, highly publicized in 2010 throughout Haiti and the United States, were channeled through his charitable organization, Yéle हैती.
The charity, which performed a variety of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010, effectively closed in 2012.
In law, a set-off is a statutory defense to the whole or to a portion of a plaintiff 's claim.
It had no existence under the English common law, being created by 2 Geo. II c. 22 for the relief of insolvent debtors, although set-off was पहचाना in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a definite character, and did not apply to cases in which damages were claimed, nor to equitable claims or demands.
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX. r. 3 ) a defendant in an action may set off or set up any right or claim by way of counterclaim against the claims of a plaintiff, and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action.
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person ( `` Party A '' ) who owed money to another ( `` Party B '' ) could be sent to debtors prison, despite the fact that Party B also owed money to Party A.
the विधि यूँ allows दोनो पार्टियों to टालना भुगतान जबतक उनके संबंधित दावा have महरूम सुना in अदालत.
Upon judgment, both claims are extinguished and replaced by a single net sum owing ( e.g. If Party A owes Party B 100 and Party B owes Party A 105, the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ).
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so that, where a party defaults, the mutual amounts owing are automatically set off and बुझे.
In निश्चित jurisdictions ( including the UK ), set-off takes place automatically upon the insolvency of a company.
This means that, for each party which is both a creditor and debtor of the insolvent company, mutual debts are set-off against each other, and then either the bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid, depending on which side owed the most.
This has been criticized as an undeclared security interest that violates the principle of pari passu.
The alternative, where a creditor has to pay all its debts, but receive only a limited portion of the leftover moneys that other unsecured creditors get, poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
The right to set बंद is particularly important when reporting a bank 's exposures to regulatory authorities.
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a large sum to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed, because there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its depositors ' money ) is thus replaced ( where the bank has taken security over shares or प्रतिभूति of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent minus the value of the security taken.
जेनिफर joanna एनिस्टन ( born फ़रवरी 11, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, फिल्मी निदेशक, और निर्माता.
Aniston gained विश्वव्यापी recognition in the 1990s for portraying Rachel Green on the television sitcom Friends, a role which earned her an Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award, and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
Aniston has also enjoyed a successful Hollywood फिल्मी career.
She gained critical acclaim for her performances in the independent films She 's the One ( 1996 ), Office Space ( 1999 ), The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ).
She has had her greatest commercial successes with the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003 ), The Break-Up ( 2006 ), Marley & Me ( 2008 ), Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ).
Aniston received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on February 22, 2012.
A white Bengal tiger at the Houston Aquarium
( वीडियो )
A White tiger at Tobu Zoo, in Saitama, जापानी.
The white tiger is a recessive mutant of the Bengal tiger, which was reported in the wild from time to time in Assam, Bengal, Bihar and विशेषकर इससे the पूर्व राज्य of रीवा.
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect, part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus, but in a standardized format that is independent of any particular processor.
डिवाइस कनेक्ट to the बस appear to the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the प्रोसेसर बस, और हैं आबंटित पता in the प्रोसेसर 's पता स्पेस.
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, called a planar device in the PCI specification, or an विस्तार कार्ड कि fits into a स्लॉट.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles, where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one vesa लोकल बस as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently महरूम अपनाया लिये other computer types.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express, but, most motherboards are still made with one or more PCI स्लॉट, जिससे हैं sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, और प्रोटोकॉल.
The specification can be purchased from the PCI Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards, sound cards, modems, extra ports such as USB or serial, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards, until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred इंटरफ़ेस लिये वीडियो cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available for use with old PCs without AGP or PCI Express स्लॉट.
Many devices previously provided on पीसीआई विस्तार ताश हैं अभी commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक सीरियल बस और पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण.
Caffeine is a bitter, white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that acts as a उत्तेजक drug.
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds, leaves, and fruit of some plants, where it acts as a natural pesticide that paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding on the plants, as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators.
It is most commonly consumed by humans in infusions extracted from the seed of the coffee plant and the leaves of the tea bush, as well as from various foods and पेय containing products derived from the kola nut.
Other sources include yerba maté, guarana berries, guayusa, and the yaupon holly.
In humans, caffeine acts as a central nervous system stimulant, temporarily warding off drowsiness and restoring alertness.
It is the world 's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world.
Beverages containing caffeine, such as coffee, tea, soft drinks, और उर्जा पेय, आनंद ग्रेट popularity.
In North अमेरिका, 90 % of adults consume caffeine daily.
Part of the reason caffeine is classified by the Food and Drug Administration as GRAS ( generally recognized as safe ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ).
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks, even when carried on for years – there may be a modest protective effect against some diseases, including Parkinsons Disease, and certain types of cancer.
Caffeine can have both positive and ऋणात्मक प्रभाव on anxiety disorders.
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine, especially during the evening hours, but others show little disturbance and the effect of caffeine on sleep is highly variable.
Evidence of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal, but some authorities have concluded that prudent advice is for pregnant women to limit consumption to the समतुल्य of two cups of coffee per day or less.
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists ( ACOG ) concluded in 2010 that caffeine consumption is सुरक्षित up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women.
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people who are not used to it, but regular users develop a tolerance to this effect, and studies have generally failed to support the common notion that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration.
साथ भारी use, tolerance develops rapidly to autonomic effects such as elevated heart rate and muscle twitching, but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine.
The degree to which caffeine can produce clinically significant physical and mental dependence remains a subject of controversy in the medical literature.
A kicktail cruiser
A longboard is a longer variant of a skateboard.
It is commonly used for cruising, downhill racing, slalom racing, स्लाइडिंग, and/or हस्तांतरण.
स्त्रोत outside of Wikipedia give differing estimates:
The CIA 's World factbook देता the संसार जनसांख्यिकी as 7,021,836,029 ( जुलाई 2012 est. ) और the वितरण of धर्मों as ईसाई 100 % ( of जिससे रोमन कैथोलिक 18.85 %, प्रोटोस्टेंट 8.15 %, परंपरागत 4.96 %, anglican 1.26 % ), मुस्लिम 22.74 %, हिन्दू 13.8 %, बौद्ध 6.77 %, सिखों 0.35 %, यहूदी 0.22 %, baha'i 0.11 %, अन्य धर्मों 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The Coast Ranges of California span from Humboldt County, California south to Santa Barbara County.
The other three coastal California mountain ranges are the अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ, प्रायद्वीपीय सीमाएँ and the Klamath Mountains.
Physiographically, they are a section of the larger Pacific Border प्रांत, which in turn are part of the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division.
UNESCO has शामिल the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere Reserve `` in its Man and the Biosphere Programme of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983.
वाहनों in use per country from 2001 to 2007.
It shows the significant growth in BRIC.
World map of passenger cars per 1000 people
An automobile, autocar, motor car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle used for transporting यात्री, which also carries its own engine or motor.
Most definitions of the term specify that automobiles are designed to run primarily on roads, to have seating for one to eight people, to typically have four wheels, and to be constructed principally for the transport of people rather than goods.
The term motorcar has also been used in the context of electrified rail systems to denote a car which functions as a small locomotive but also provides space for passengers and baggage.
These locomotive cars were often used on suburban routes by both interurban and intercity railroad systems.
It was estimated in 2010 that the number of automobiles had risen to over 1 billion vehicles, up from the 500 million of 1986.
The numbers are increasing rapidly, विशेषकर in China and India.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर jfk, थी the 35th President of the United States, serving from 1961 until his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II in the South Pacific, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
thereafter, he परोसा in the u.S. सीनेट इससे 1953 जबतक 1960.
Kennedy पराजित वाइस अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन candidate Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been elected to the office, the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the only non- Protestant अध्यक्ष, and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs आक्रमण, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the building of the Berlin Wall, the Space Race, the African-American Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the number of military advisers, special operation forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the स्प्रेड of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It involved certain मजबूर relocation, village internment, and segregation of rural South Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy थी assassinated on November 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee Harvey ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज with the crime, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later, before a trial could take place.
The FBI and the Warren आयोग officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their investigation, the कैनेडी हत्या : Beyond Conspiracy, confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s information concerning Kennedy 's private life has come to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become better known, especially since the 1990s.
हालांकि initially kept secret from the general public, reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks highly in public opinion ratings of U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों.
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( top ) and graphic annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall, at James Madison University.
A Vigilant VM-1 fire सचेतक control unit ( FACU ) / autonomous control unit ( ACU ) with integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system.
Manufactured by एडवर्ड्स, A UTC F & S Company
A Fire Alarm Control Panel ( facp ), or आग Alarm Control Unit ( FACU ), is the controlling component of a Fire Alarm System.
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect परिवर्तन संबद्ध with fire, monitors their operational integrity and provides for automatic control of equipment, and transmission of information necessary to prepare the facility for fire based on a predetermined sequence.
The panel may also supply electrical energy to operate any associated sensor, control, transmitter, or relay.
There are चार मौलिक प्रकार of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, और मल्टीप्लेक्स प्रणालियों.
This is a list of the first music videos broadcast on MTV 's first day, अगस्त 1, 1981.
MTV 's पहला दिन on the एयर थी rebroadcast on vh1 क्लासिक in 2006 और अपलोड onto youtube in 2010 ( हालांकि तभी the पहला चार घंटों यहूद प्रामाणिक ; the बाकी यहूद संपादित vh1 rebroadcasts ).
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as Katunayake International Airport and Colombo International Airport ) is one of the two international airports serving the city of Colombo, the other is ratmalana अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport.
Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport located in southern city of Hambantota is the other international airport in Sri Lanka.
Bandaranaike International Airport is located in Katunayake, 22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo.
It is administered by विमानक्षेत्र and Aviation Services ( Sri Lanka ) Ltd.
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines, the national carrier of Sri Lanka, and Mihin Lanka, the budget airline of श्री Lanka.
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror film directed by Darren Aronofsky and starring Natalie Portman, Vincent Cassel, and Mila Kunis.
The plot revolves around a production of tchaikovsky 's Swan Lake ballet by a prestigious New York City company.
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White Swan, for which the committed dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a perfect fit, as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan, which are qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ).
Nina is overwhelmed by a feeling of immense pressure when she finds herself competing for the भाग, causing her to lose her tenuous grip on reality and descend into a living nightmare.
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a production of Swan Lake with an unrealized screenplay about understudies and the notion of being haunted by a double, similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
aronofsky cites Fyodor Dostoyevsky 's `` The Double `` as another inspiration for the film.
The director also considered Black Swan a companion piece to उसके 2008 film The Wrestler, with both films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art.
He and Portman first discussed the project in 2000, and after a brief attachment to Universal studios, ब्लैक Swan was produced in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures.
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for several months prior to filming, and notable figures from the ballet world helped with film production to shape the बैले प्रस्तुतीकरण.
The film premiered as the opening film for the 67th Venice International Film Festival on September 1, 2010.
It had a limited रिलीज in the United States starting December 3, 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17.
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release, particularly for Portman 's performance and Aronofsky 's direction, and was a significant box office success, grossing $ 329 million worldwide.
The film received पाँच अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations and Portman won the Best Actress award for the film, as well as many other Best Actress awards in several guilds and festivals, while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director.
In addition, the film itself received a nomination for Best Picture.
The world’s first ice-calorimeter, used in the winter of 1782-83, by Antoine Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon Laplace, to determine the ऊष्मा शामिल in विभिन्न chemical changes ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat.
These experiments mark the foundation of thermochemistry.
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor, meaning heat ) is an object used for calorimetry, or the प्रक्रम of measuring the ऊष्मा of रासायनिक reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity.
Differential scanning calorimeters, isothermal microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters and accelerated rate calorimeters are among the most common types.
A simple calorimeter just consists of a thermometer attached to a metal container full of water suspended above a combustion chamber.
To find the enthalpy change per mole of a substance A in a reaction between two substances A and B, the substances are added to a calorimeter and the आरंभिक and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after it has finished ) are noted.
Multiplying the temperature change by the mass and specific heat capacities of the substances gives a value for the energy given off or absorbed during the reaction.
Dividing the उर्जा बदलें by how many moles of A were present gives its enthalpy change of reaction.
This method is used primarily in academic teaching as it describes the theory of calorimetry.
It does not account for the heat loss through the container or the ऊष्मा capacity of the thermometer and container itself.
In addition, the object placed inside the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid, and the heat absorbed by the calorimeter and the liquid is equal to the heat given off by the metals.
A pair of green flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri, thongs, jandals, or a variety of अन्य names throughout the world ) are a type of open-toed sandal typically worn in casual situations, such as outside or at the beach.
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the foot by a Y-shaped strap that passes between the first and second toes और around either side of the foot.
They may also be held to the foot with a single strap over the front of the foot rather than a thong.
The name `` flip-flop '' originated because of the sound that is बना by slapping between the एकमात्र of the foot and the floor when walking.
This style of footwear has been worn by the people of many cultures throughout the world, originating as early as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 B.C.
The modern flip-flop उतरता from the Japanese zōri, which became popular after World War II when soldiers returning to the United States brought them back.
वे became लोकप्रिय in कैज़ुअल जमावट दौरान the 1960s, 1990s, और 2000s, और कुछ किस्में have भी मिला उनके रास्ता into अधिक औपचारिक attire, despite criticism.
The use of flip-flops can result in many pains and injuries, including ankle sprains and टूटा हड्डियों.
Some individuals who walk for long periods report pain in the feet, ankles, and lower legs.
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results in over-pronation injuries, caused by the foot slipping inwards further than सामान्य.
This can lead to flat feet and tendonitis.
Other injuries that may result are due to the footwear 's open-toed प्रकृति, ऐसे as stubbed toes, cuts, and bruises.
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned soles, as well as those that have a strap that is not canvas and that comes back almost to the ankle.
The owners of Hanjin Osaka, seen here transiting the Panama Canal in 2008, declared general average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room on.
The law of general average is a legal principle of maritime law according to जिससे सब पार्टियों in a sea venture proportionally share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency.
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea, crew members often have precious little time in which to determine precisely whose cargo they are jettisoning.
यूँ, to avoid quarrelling कि could बर्बाद मूल्यवान समय, वहीँ arose the निष्पक्ष अभ्यास whereby सब the व्यापारियों जिनकी कार्गो उतरा सकुशल होता be पुकारा on to योगदान a portion, आधारित upon a share or प्रतिशत, to the व्यापारी or व्यापारियों जिनकी goods था महरूम tossed overboard to avert निकट peril.
While general average traces इसके origins in ancient maritime law, still it remains part of the admiralty law of most countries.
The first संहिताकरण of general average was the York Antwerp Rules of 1890.
American companies accepted it in 1949.
General average requires three elements which are clearly stated by Mr. Justice Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
`` 1st.
A common danger : a danger in which vessel, cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent and apparently 'inevitable, ' मगर by voluntarily रूष्ट the loss of a portion of the whole to save the remainder. ''
`` 2nd. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or casting away, of some portion of the joint concern for the purpose of avoiding this imminent peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in other words, a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole. ''
`` 3rd.
This attempt to avoid the imminent common peril must be successful ''.
Example Polish call for vaccination against Diphtheria and Tetanus.
A vaccination schedule is a series of vaccinations, including the timing of all doses, which may be either recommended or compulsory, depending on the country of residence.
A vaccine is an antigenic preparation used to produce active immunity to a disease, in order to prevent or reduce the प्रभाव of संक्रमण by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness, either to produce sufficient initial immune जवाब or to बूस्ट जवाब that fades over time.
For example, tetanus vaccine boosters are often अनुशंसित every 10 years.
Vaccine schedules are developed by governmental agencies or physicians groups to achieve maximum effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for a मोहल्ले जबकि minimizing the number of health care system interactions.
Over the past two decades, the recommended vaccination schedule has grown rapidly and become more complicated as many new vaccines have been developed.
Some vaccines are recommended only in certain areas ( countries, subnational areas, or at-risk populations ) जहाँ a बीमारी is common.
For instance, yellow fever vaccination is on the routine vaccine schedule of French Guiana, is recommended in certain regions of Brazil but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease.
In developing countries, vaccine recommendations also take into account the level of health care access, the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage.
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the World Health Organization show a developed country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's life and uses vaccines which cost over $ 700 including administration costs while a developing देश उपयोग a अनुसूची providing vaccines in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25.
This अंतर is due to the lower cost of health care, the lower cost of many vaccines provided to developing nations, and that more expensive vaccines, often for less common diseases, are not utilized.
in 1900, the smallpox टीका थी the तभी एक administered to children.
By the early 1950s, children routinely प्राप्त four vaccines, for protection against ( diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, and smallpox ), and as many as five shots by two years of age.
Since the mid-1980s, many vaccines have been added to the schedule.
, the us centers लिये बीमारी कंट्रोल और रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) अभी अनुशंसा टीकाकरण विरूद्ध at तनिक चौदह रोगों.
By two years of age, u.S. children receive as many as 24 vaccine injections, and might receive up to five shots during one visit to the doctor.
The use of combination vaccine उत्पाद अर्थात् कि,, the United Kingdom 's immunization program consists of 10 injections by the age of two, rather than 25 if vaccination for each disease was given as a separate injection.
Two revellers dance in the streets.
The form of dancing is called `` wining '' ( winding ) pronounced wine-ing
A Music Truck entertains the crowd on the streets.
Trucks are an integral part of the street परेड, featuring live performances or deejays
The Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an annual event held on the Monday and Tuesday before Ash Wednesday, and is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations.
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant event on the islands ' सांस्कृतिक और पर्यटन पंचांग, with numerous cultural events running in the lead up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday.
It is said that if the islanders are not celebrating it, then they are preparing for it, while reminiscing about the past year 's पर्व.
the दिल of the musical जश्न रै महरूम कैलिप्सो ; recently सोका रै replaced कैलिप्सो as the सबसे मनाये प्रकार of म्यूज़िक.
Costumes, stickfighting and limbo प्रतियोगिताओं are also important components of the festival.
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and टोबैगो is also celebrated in cities worldwide.
These including Toronto 's Caribana, Miami 's Miami Carnival, Houston Carifest, London 's Notting Hill Carnival as well as नई यॉर्क City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few.
Carnival was created when West African slaves mimicked their French owners who where known for their lavish costumes balls.
Forbidden to partake in these festivities and confined to their quarters, slaves संयुक्त तत्व from their own cultures to their master 's fete.
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab Jab or Jab Molassie ( Devils ), Midnight Robbers, Imps, Lagahroo, Soucouyant, La Diablesse और राक्षसों.
With the abolition of slavery in 1838, freed Africans took their version of Carnival to the streets through expression of drums, riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population entered Trinidad, Carnival evolved into what we know today.
The city of Chicago, Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral election on Tuesday, February 22, 2011.
लाज़िम महापौर रिचर्ड M. डाले, a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी जो था महरूम in दफ्तर चूंकि 1989, किया नहीं तलाश a सातवाँ पद as महापौर.
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 petition signatures by November 22, 2010 to qualify लिये a place on the ballot.
April 5, 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff election date if no प्रत्याशी received an absolute majority.
Rahm Emanuel won the race for mayor with more than 55 % of the vote.
He was उदघाटन on May 16, 2011.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a song by American indie pop band Foster the People.
it थी released as the group 's debut single in September 2010, and the following year was included on their EP Foster the People and their debut album Torches.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the group 's भेदन hit and was one of the most popular songs of 2011.
The सोंग थी लिखा and recorded by frontman Mark Foster while he was working as a commercial jingle writer.
Contrasting with the upbeat musical composition, the lyrics describe the homicidal thoughts of a troubled youth.
The track received considerable attention after it was posted online in 2010 as a free download, and it helped the group garner a multi-album record deal with Columbia Records imprint Startime International.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a sleeper hit ; in 2011, after receiving significant airplay on आधुनिक चट्टान स्टेशन, the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations.
The song spent eight consecutive weeks at number three on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 chart in the United States, making it the first Billboard Alternative Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009.
The song was widely praised by critics, and it has been licensed for use in a wide range of popular media since its release.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' प्राप्त a Grammy Award nomination for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance.
The राज्य मेला of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया is an सालाना राज्य मेला लिये वेस्ट वर्जिनिया.
It is held annually in mid-august on the State Fairgrounds in Fairlea, near Lewisburg, West Virginia in the southeastern part of the state.
The State Fairgrounds consists of a large open field for carnivals and exhibitions, a horse track, grandstands, and several exhibition buildings.
Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds and, until 2006, free camping was also available in a large field with running-water toilets and showers, but no hookups.
campers are now charged a small fee.
The White House, the president 's official residence and center of the administration
अंतर्गत the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य.
As मुख्य of the कार्यपालिका branch and head of the federal government as a whole, the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त States Armed Forces.
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no person may be elected President more than twice, and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or removal from office of an incumbent President, the Vice President assumes the office.
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution, which took effect on कूच 4, 1789.
For American leaders before इस अनुसमर्थन, see President of the Continental Congress.
The list does not include any Acting Presidents under the twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding, and Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the पहला अध्यक्ष, was inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College.
विलियम हेनरी Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years, but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two terms, and a constitutional amendment, affecting presidents after Harry Truman, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
एंड्रयू जैक्सन, the सातवाँ अध्यक्ष, थी the पहला to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब वर्ग in 1828 बाद सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners इससे मतदान यहूद repealed.
Warren हार्डिंग थी the पहला निर्वाचित बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920.
History records four presidents – John Q Adams, Rutherford B. Hayes, Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith, and the current president, बराक ओबामा, is the first president of African descent.
`` Lombardi Trophy '' redirects here.
For the award awarded annually to the best college football lineman or linebacker, see Lombardi Award.
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded each year to the winning team of the National Football League 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
The trophy is नामित in honor of legendary NFL coach Vince Lombardi.
इस is a सूची of टेबल of the सत्यापित oldest लोगों in the संसार in ordinal रैंक, ऐसे as oldest व्यक्ति or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body that specifically deals in longevity research, such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously प्रलेखित human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met Vincent van Gogh when she was 12 or 13.
This led to news मीडिया attention in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age, beyond any उचित question, in the records of her native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura, who currently lives in Japan and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 December 2012, Kimura, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013, the oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
the लोगों 's Court is an American arbitration-based reality court show, currently presided over by retired Florida State Circuit Court Judge Marilyn Milian, in which small claims disputes are handled.
The People 's Court is the first court show to use binding arbitration, introducing the format into the genre in 1981.
The system has been duplicated by most of the show 's successors in the judicial genre.
Moreover, The People 's Court is the first popular, long-running reality in the judicial genre.
It was preceded only by a few short-lived realities in the genre ; these short-lived predecessors were only loosely related to judicial proceedings, except for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings.
Prior to The People 's Court, the vast majority of TV courtroom shows used actors, and recreated or fictional cases ( as did radio before that ).
Among examples of ये प्रकार of court shows include Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness.
The People 's Court has had two चिहृ lives.
The show 's first life was presided over solely by former Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Joseph Wapner.
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on September 14, 1981, until May 21, 1993, when the show was cancelled due to कम दरजा.
This left the show with a total of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons.
The show थी taped in Los Angeles during its first life.
After being cancelled, reruns aired until September 9, 1994.
On September 8, 1997, after being out of production for four years, The People 's Court was revived for a second life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program.
Former lawyer and Mayor of नई York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter, which he maintained for 2 seasons from the 1997–98 season through the 1998–99 season ( the present life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 season, husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over Judge Judy ) and former New York State Supreme Court Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch.
Sheindlin lasted one and a half seasons as he was replaced towards the end of the 2000–01 season ( उपस्थित जीवन 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ).
Beginning in spring 2001, Florida judge Marilyn Milian took over The People 's Court and has presided over the show ever since.
Once Milian completes the 2012–13 ऋतु, वो होगा have served as longest arbiter over the series with 12 and a half seasons.
As of the present, however, her years on the program tie Wapner at 12 seasons.
In the 2009-10 television season, The People 's Courts 2nd/present life outlasted इसके पहला जब it reached 13 seasons.
While the show taped in New York City for the first 15 seasons of its second life, it now tapes in Stamford, कनेक्टिकट as of the 2012-13 season.
On सितंबर 3, 2012, The People 's Court 's 2nd/present life entered its 16th season ( 28th overall season ).
With 28 कुल सीज़न, The People 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom program behind the ongoing Divorce Court at 33 seasons ( from its 3 combined lives ).
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : Wo'tééneihí ' ) is a state in the Western United States.
It became the 45th state admitted to the Union on January 4, 1896.
Utah is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States.
लगभग 80 % of यूटा 's 2,817,222 लोगों सजीव साथ the wasatch सामने, centering on नमक झील नगर, leaving विशाल expanses of the राज्य nearly uninhabited और बनाना the जनसांख्यिकी the छठे सबसे urbanized in the u.S. यूटा is bordered by कोलोराडो on the ईस्ट, व्योमिंग on the पूर्वोत्तर, idaho on the उत्तर, एरिज़ोना on the दक्षिण, और नेवाडा on the west.
It also touches a corner of New Mexico on the southeast.
Utah is the most religiously समरूप state in the Union.
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of latter-day Saints or LDS ( Mormons ), which greatly influences Utah culture and daily life.
the संसार मुख्यालय of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital.
The state is a center of transportation, education, information प्रौद्योगिकी और research, government services, mining, and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's जनसांख्यिकी estimates, Utah is the fifth fastest-growing state in the United States as of 2012.
St. George, was the fastest–growing metropolitan area in the United States from 2000 to 2005.
A 2012 Gallup national survey found Utah overall to be the `` best state to live in '' based on 13 forward-looking measurements including various economic, lifestyle, and health-related outlook metrics.
Coldwater is a small कस्बा in टेट County, Mississippi.
It is in the Memphis Metropolitan Area.
The population was 1,674 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
The hard palate is a thin horizontal bony plate of the skull, located in the roof of the mouth.
It spans the arch formed by the upper teeth.
It is formed by the palatine process of the maxilla और horizontal plate of palatine bone.
It forms a partition between the nasal passages and the mouth.
Also on the anterior portion of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae which are the irregular ridges in the mucous membrane that help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx.
This partition is continued deeper into the mouth by a fleshy extension called the soft palate.
पूरा set of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The Tanakh is also known as the masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '', also known as the Five Books of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that which is read '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation, called the Oral Torah.
Sobriety नाका in Germany
Driving अंतर्गत the influence ( dui ), ड्राइविंग जबकि intoxicated ( dwi ), शराबी ड्राइविंग, नशे ड्राइविंग, पेय ड्राइविंग, ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence, पीने और ड्राइविंग, or impaired ड्राइविंग is the अपराधों of ड्राइविंग a मोटर गाडी साथ रक्त स्तर of दारू in excess of a विधिक सीमा ( `` रक्त दारू सामग्री '', or `` bac '' ).
Similar regulations cover driving or operating certain types of machinery while affected by drinking alcohol or taking other drugs, including, but not limited to prescription drugs.
This is a criminal offense in most nations.
Convictions do not necessarily involve वास्तविक ड्राइविंग of the vehicle.
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a blood alcohol content ( BAC ) in excess of a specific threshold level, such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense, साथ no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol.
In some jurisdictions, there is an क्रोधित category of the offense at a higher level e.g. 0.12 %.
In most countries, anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing someone while under the influence of दारू or drugs can be heavily fined, as in France, in addition to being given a lengthy prison sentence.
Some jobs have their own rules and BAC limits, for उदाहरण commercial pilot, and the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % limit for train crew.
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; for example, the state of California has a 0.08 % BAC limit, which is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a commercial driver 's license.
The California BAC limit is 0.01 % for those younger than 21 years of age and those on probation for a previous DUI conviction.
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their own BAC limit of 0.02 % that, if violated during a random test or a for-cause test — for example, after a traffic accident — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire.
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted truth in sentencing laws that enforce strict guidelines on sentencing, differing from previous practice where prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued.
Some jurisdictions have न्यायिक guidelines requiring a mandatory minimum sentence.
Penalties for DUI charges range from expensive fees to forfetiruree of your license plates and in some serious circumstances, your vehicle.
A drunk driving simulator in Montréal, Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called, depending on the jurisdiction, driving under the influence [ of alcohol or other drugs ] ( DUI ), driving under तीव्र influence ( DUII ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), operating under the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ), operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated ( OMVI ), driving under the combined influence of alcohol and/or other drugs, driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ].
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling, boating, piloting aircraft, use of motile farm equipment such as tractors and combines, riding horses or ड्राइविंग a horse-drawn vehicle, or bicycling, possibly with different BAC level than driving.
In some jurisdictions there are separate charges depending on the गाडी प्रयुक्त, ऐसे as BWI ( bicycling while intoxicated ), which may carry a lighter sentence.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, लोकल विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसियों बना 1,467,300 रखवाले देशभर लिये ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence of दारू in 1996, compared to 1.9 लाख ऐसे रखवाले दौरान the शिखर साल in 1983.
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 dwi offenders were in prison or jail, down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986.
Officers इससे US Customs and Border Protection boarding a ship
Law enforcement in the United States is one of three major components of the दण्ड justice system of the United States, along with courts and corrections.
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the different groups that make up the criminal justice system based on their crime deterrence purpose, each component operates independently from one another.
However, the judiciary is vested with the power to make legal determinations regarding the conduct of the अन्य two components.
Apart from maintaining order and service functions, the purpose of policing is the investigation of suspected दण्ड कार्यकलाप and the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts.
Law enforcement, to varying degrees at different levels of government and in different agencies, is also commonly charged with the जिम्मेदारियों of deterring criminal activity and of preventing the successful commission of crimes in progress ; the service and enforcement of warrants, writs and other orders of the courts.
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing first response to emergencies and other threats to public safety ; the protection of certain public facilities and infrastructure ; the maintenance of पब्लिक अनुक्रम ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ).
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June 28, 1968 ), बेहतरीन ज्ञात अंतर्गत the stage name Chayanne, is a Puerto Rican Latin pop singer and actor.
As a solo artist, Chayanne has released 21 solo albums and sold over 15 million albums worldwide.
`` World War हल्क '' is a कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर कथानक कि भागा through a स्वः titled सीमित श्रेणी और विभिन्न अन्य शीर्षक प्रकाशित by आश्चर्य कॉमिक्स in 2007, featuring the हल्क.
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk, with Greg Pak as writer and John Romita, Jr. as penciller, and three other limited series : World War Hulk : Front Line, World War Hulk : गामा corps, और संसार War Hulk : X-Men.
It also ran through several other Marvel comics श्रेणी.
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into space by the Illuminati and a life model decoy of Nick Fury, the Hulk 's subsequent exile seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati.
marion मिशेल मॉरिसन ( born marion रॉबर्ट मॉरिसन ; may 26, 1907 – जून 11, 1979 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम जॉन वेन, थी an अमरीकी फिल्मी कर्ता, निदेशक and producer.
An Academy Award -winner, Wayne was among the top box office draws लिये three decades, and was named the all-time top money-making star.
An enduring American icon, he epitomized खुरदरा मर्दानगी and is famous for his demeanor, including his distinctive calm voice, walk, and height.
Wayne was born in Winterset, Iowa but his family relocated to the greater Los Angeles area when he was four years old.
He found work at local film studios when he lost his football scholarship to यूएससी as a परिणाम of a bodysurfing accident.
Initially working for the Fox Film Corporation, he mostly appeared in small bit parts.
His first leading role came in the widescreen epic The Big Trail ( 1930 ), जिससे led to अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in numerous films throughout the 1930s, many of them in the western genre.
His career rose to further heights in 1939, साथ जॉन घाट 's Stagecoach making him an instant superstar.
Wayne would go on to star in 142 pictures, primarily typecast in Western films.
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ), which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ), in which he plays a Civil War veteran who seeks out his abducted niece ; Rio Bravo ( 1959 ), playing a Sheriff with Dean Martin ; True Grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous U.S. Marshal who sets out to avenge a man 's death in the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ), his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer.
Wayne moved to Orange County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the 1960s, and was a prominent Republican in Hollywood, supporting anti-communist positions.
He died of stomach cancer in 1979.
In June 1999, the अमरीकी Film Institute named Wayne 13th among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of All Time.
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642 ), was an Italian physicist, mathematician, astronomer, and philosopher who played a major role in the Scientific Revolution.
His achievements include improvements to the telescope and consequent खगोलीय observations and support for Copernicanism.
Galileo has महरूम called the `` father of modern observational astronomy ``, the `` father of modern physics ``, the `` father of science '', and `` the Father of Modern Science ''.
His contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of Venus, the discovery of the four largest satellites of Jupiter ( नामित the Galilean moons in his honour ), and the observation and analysis of sunspots.
Galileo also worked in applied science and technology, inventing an improved सैन्य compass and other instruments.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his lifetime, when most subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system.
He met with opposition from astronomers, who doubted heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed stellar parallax.
The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in 1615, and they concluded that it could be supported as only a सम्भावना, not an established fact.
Galileo later defended his views in Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, which appeared to attack Pope शहरी viii और thus alienated him and the Jesuits, who had both supported Galileo up until this point.
He was tried by the Inquisition, found `` ओजस्वी suspect of heresy '', forced to recant, and spent the rest of his life under house arrest.
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he wrote one of his finest works, Two New Sciences, in which he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier, on the two sciences अभी पुकारा kinematics and strength of materials.
55 '' LG OLED TV showcased at ces 2012
Prototype OLED lighting panel developed by Lumiotec
demonstration of a flexible OLED device
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode ( LED ) in which the emissive electroluminescent layer is a film of organic compound which emits light in response to an electric current.
This layer of organic semiconductor is situated between two electrodes.
Generally, at least one of these electrodes is transparent.
OLEDs are used to बनाएँ डिजिटल displays in devices such as television screens, computer monitors, portable systems such as mobile phones, handheld games consoles and PDAs.
A major area of research is the development of white OLED devices for use in solid-state lighting applications.
There are two main families of OLEDs : those based on small molecules and those employing polymers.
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical cell or LEC, which has a slightly different mode of operation.
OLED displays can use either passive-matrix ( pmoled ) or active-matrix addressing schemes.
active-matrix oleds ( amoled ) आवश्यकता a thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to स्विच प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत पिक्सेल on or बंद, लकिन allow लिये उच्चतर रेज़ोल्यूशन और larger प्रदर्शक आकार.
An OLED display works बगैर a backlight.
Thus, it can display deep black levels and can be thinner and हल्का than a द्रव crystal display ( LCD ).
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark room an OLED screen can achieve a higher contrast अनुपात than an एलसीडी, whether the LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight.
A carton and a glass of eggnog इससे मॉन्ट्रियल, कनाडा, showing its French facade ( English reverse ) and the French term lait de poule ( literally, `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog, or egg nog, is a sweetened dairy -based पेय traditionally made with milk and/or cream, sugar, and whipped eggs ( which gives it a frothy texture ).
Brandy, rum, whisky, bourbon, वोदका, or a combination of liquors are often added.
The finished serving is often garnished with a sprinkling of ground दालचीनी or nutmeg.
It was भी known as the egg milk punch.
Eggnog is a popular drink throughout the United States and Canada, and is usually associated with Christmas.
Eggnog may be added as a flavoring to food or drinks such as coffee and tea.
Eggnog as a custard can भी be प्रयुक्त as an ice cream base.
A pasty (, ), ( sometimes known in ब्रिटेन as a cornish pasty, और in the United States as a pastie or British pasty ) is a baked pastry, a traditional variety of which is particularly associated with Cornwall, the westernmost county in England.
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of meat and vegetables, without meat in vegetarian versions, on a flat pastry circle and folding it to wrap the filling, crimping the edge to form a seal.
After baking, the result is a raised semicircular comestible.
The traditional Cornish pasty, जिससे रै सुरक्षित भौगोलिक indication ( PGI ) status in Europe, is filled with beef, sliced or diced potato, swede ( also known as a yellow turnip or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as turnip ) and onion, seasoned with salt and pepper, and is baked.
Today, the pasty is the food most associated with Cornwall, it is regarded as the national dish, and it accounts for 6 % of the Cornish food अर्थव्यवस्था.
Pasties with many different fillings are made ; some shops specialise in selling all sorts of pasties.
The origins of the pasty are unclear, though there are many references to them throughout historical documents और fiction.
The pasty is अभी लोकप्रिय world-wide due to the स्प्रेड of cornish खनिक, और विसंगतियाँ can be मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the संयुक्त राज्य, मैक्सिको और elsewhere.
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of the autonomic nervous system : the others being the enteric and parasympathetic systems.
Its general action is to mobilize the body 's nervous system fight-or-flight जवाब.
It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices, such as mobile phones, digital cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ).
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of उत्पाद श्रेणी और अधिक than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital format includes four card families available in three different form factors.
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form factors are the original size, the `` mini '' size, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of form factors and device families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards, but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A नए कार्ड may offer greater capacity than the host device can handle.
A newer card may use a file system the host यंत्र can नहीं navigate.
Use of an SDIO कार्ड requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed for the input/output functions the card provides.
The organization of the card was changed starting with the sdhc family.
Some vendors produced SDSC cards ऊपर 1 gb पहले the SDA had standardized a method of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its विशेषताएँ और assure उपयोक्ता of compatibility.
The following is a List of critics of the नई सौदे.
Daniel Lawrence Whitney ( born February 17, 1963 ) best known by his stage name and character Larry the Cable Guy, is an American stand-up comedian, actor, country music artist, voice actor, and former radio personality.
He was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy Tour, a comedy troupe which included Bill Engvall, Ron White, and Jeff Foxworthy ( with whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV ).
व्हिटनी रै released सात कॉमेडी एल्बम, of जिससे तीन have महरूम certified सुनहरा by the riaa लिये शिपमेंट of 500,000 नक़ल.
In addition, he has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related movies, as well as in the films Larry the Cable Guy : Health Inspector, Delta Farce, and Witless Protection, as well as voicing Mater in the गाड़ियाँ मताधिकार.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` Git-R-Done ! '' is also the title of his book.
On January 26, 2010, the TV channel History announced that it was ordering a series starring Whitney called Only in America with Larry the Cable Guy, in which he would explore the country and immerse himself in different lifestyles, jobs, and hobbies.
The पहला एपीसोड of the श्रेणी aired on फ़रवरी 8, 2011.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal absorption of calcium और फास्फेट.
In humans, the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण related compounds of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although vitamin D is commonly called a विटामिन, it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in उनके diet. )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
additionally, जैसे other compounds called vitamins, in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the आहार, and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight, no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
तदनुसार, the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, which is also ज्ञात as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, such as the अप्रसार, differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health and a decrease in mortality in बुजुर्ग women.
Standard form of the periodic तालिका.
The colors represent different श्रेणी of elements explained below.
The periodic तालिका is a table display of the chemical elements, organized on the basis of their atomic numbers, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
Elements are presented in order of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body of elements, positioned above a smaller double row of elements.
The table can भी be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, and p-blocks are called groups, with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates recurring trends, any such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior, and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
He developed his table to illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements.
mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the elements in question were subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements और the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from atomic संख्याएँ 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally, हालांकि some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
the elements after 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of how the periodic table may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories.
न्यूनतम wage by U.S. state and U.S. territory ( American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands ), as of Jan. 1, 2013.
In the United States, workers are generally entitled to be paid no कम than the statutory minimum wage.
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $ 7.25 per hour, while some states and municipalities have set minimum wage levels higher than the संघीय स्तर, साथ the उच्चतम राज्य न्यूनतम मजदूरी होने $ 9.19 प्रति घंटा in Washington as of 2013.
Among those paid by the hour in 2012, 1.6 million were reported as earning exactly the प्रचलित federal minimum wage.
About 2.0 लाख were reported as earning wages below the minimum.
साथ, ये 3.6 लाख workers with wages at or below the minimum made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers.
A selection of Bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered at a liquor store in decatur, Georgia
Evan Williams bourbon whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a type of American whiskey – a barrel-aged distilled spirit made primarily from corn.
The name of the spirit derives from its historical association with an area known as Old Bourbon, around what is now Bourbon County, Kentucky ( which, in turn, was named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ).
It has been produced since the 18th century.
जबकि it may be made anywhere in the United States, it is strongly associated with the American South in general, and Kentucky in particular.
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length पोर्ट्रेट of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da Vinci, which has been acclaimed as `` the best known, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world. ''
The painting, thought to be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini, the wife of Francesco del Giocondo, is in oil on a poplar panel, and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506.
It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the प्रॉपर्टी of the French Republic, on permanent display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797.
The ambiguity of the subject 's expression, which is frequently described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the subtle modeling of forms and the atmospheric illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work.
Robert Allen Palmer ( 19 जनवरी 1949 – 26 September 2003 ), was an English singer-songwriter and musician.
He थी ज्ञात for his distinctive voice and the eclectic mix of musical styles on his albums, combining soul, jazz, rock, pop, reggae and blues.
He found success both in his solo career and in the musical act The Power Station, and had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US.
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits `` Addicted to Love `` and `` Simply Irresistible `` featured identically dressed dancing women with pale faces, dark eye makeup and bright red lipstick, which resembled the women in the art of Patrick Nagel, an artist popular in the 1980s.
Sharp-suited, his involvement in the music industry commenced in the 1960s, covered five decades and included a spell with Vinegar Joe.
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career, including two Grammy Awards for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance, an MTV Video Music Award, and was twice nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male.
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) is a computed tomography technique used to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the body.
इस सीमाएँ इससे धमनियों सेवारत the दिमाग to those bringing रक्त to the फेफड़े, गुर्दे, arms and legs.
The Champs-Élysées decorated with ध्वज for Bastille Day
Horseman of the French Republican Guard during the 2007 military parade on the champs-élysées.
prise de la Bastille by Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent Houel
Bastille Day is the name given in English-speaking countries to the French National Day, which is celebrated on the 14th of July each साल.
In France, it is formally called La Fête Nationale ( ; The National Celebration ) and commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ).
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération, held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison was seen as a symbol of the uprising of the modern nation, and of the reconciliation of all the फ्रेंच अंदर the संवैधानिक monarchy which preceded the First Republic, during the French Revolution.
festivities और आधिकारिक ceremonies हैं आयोजित सब over फ़्रांस.
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held on the morning of 14 July, on the Champs-Élysées avenue in Paris in front of the अध्यक्ष of the गणतंत्र, French officials and foreign guests.
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ), commonly called the United States ( US or U.S. ) or America, is a federal republic consisting of fifty states and a federal district.
The lower forty-eight contiguous states and the federal district of Washington, D.C. are in central North अमेरिका between Canada and Mexico.
The state of Alaska is west of कनाडा and east of Russia across the Bering Strait, and the state of Hawaii is in the mid-North Pacific.
The देश भी रै पाँच आबादी और नौ unpopulated territories in the प्रशांत और the caribbean.
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315 million people, the United States is the third- or fourth-largest देश by total area and the third-largest by both land area and population.
It is one of the world 's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration from many countries.
The geography and climate of the U.S. is also extremely diverse, with deserts, plains, forests, and mountains that are home to a wide किस्में of species.
paleoindians migrated from Asia to what is now the United States mainland around 15,000 years ago.
After 1500, Old World diseases introduced by europeans greatly reduced their populations.
European colonization began around 1600 and came mostly from England.
The United States emerged from तेरह British colonies located along the Atlantic seaboard.
Disputes between Great Britain and the American colonies led to the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
On July 4, 1776, delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously issued the Declaration of Independence, which established the United States of America.
the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध, जिससे ended साथ the मान्यता of स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, थी the पहला कामयाब युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता विरूद्ध a European colonial empire.
The current Constitution was adopted on September 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven Amendments have since been added to the Constitution.
The first ten amendments, collectively named the Bill of Rights, were ratified in 1791 and guarantee many fundamental civil rights and freedoms.
Driven by the doctrine of manifest destiny, the United States embarked on a vigorous expansion across North अमेरिका throughout the 19th century.
This involved displacing देशी जनजातियों, acquiring new territories, and gradually admitting new states.
The American सिविल युद्ध ended legalized slavery in the United States.
by the समाप्त of the उन्नीसवीं सदी, the संयुक्त राज्य विस्तारित into the प्रशांत समंदर, और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था थी the संसार 's largest.
The Spanish–American War and confirmed the country 's status as a global military power.
The United States emerged from as a global महाशक्ति, the first country with nuclear weapons, and a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
The end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the Soviet Union left the United States as the sole superpower.
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest national economy, with an estimated 2012 GDP of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity, as of 2011.
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010, although America 's wealth inequality was also क्रमित उच्चतम among OECD countries by the World Bank.
The economy is fueled by an abundance of natural resources, a well-developed अवसंरचना, और ऊँची उत्पादकता ; and while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers.
The country खाते लिये 39 % of वैश्विक सैन्य बिता, और is a अग्रणी आर्थिक, राजनैतिक, और सांस्कृतिक फ़ोर्स in the संसार, as खूब as a नेता in वैज्ञानिक शोध और technological नवीनता.
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each spring in the United States, currently featuring 68 college basketball teams, to determine the national championship of the प्रमुख college basketball teams.
The tournament, organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ), was created during 1939 by the नेशनल संघ of बास्केट Coaches, and was the idea of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen.
Played mostly during March, it is known informally as March दीवानगी or the बिग नृत्य, and has become one of the most famous annual sporting events in the United States.
The NCAA has credited Bob Walsh of the सिएटल आयोजन Committee for starting the March Madness celebration during 1984.
The tournament teams include champions from 31 Division i सम्मेलनों ( which receive automatic bids ), and 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths.
These `` at-large '' teams are chosen by an NCAA selection committee, as detailed below.
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and organized into a single elimination `` bracket '', which predetermines, when a team wins a game, which team it will face next.
Each team is `` seeded '', or ranked, within its region.
After an initial four games between eight lower-ranked teams, the tournament occurs during the course of three weekends, at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States.
Lower-ranked teams हैं placed in the bracket against higher ranked teams.
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams, from a round of 64, to a `` Sweet Sixteen '', and for the last weekend of the Tournament a Final Four ; the Final Four is usually played during the first weekend of April.
These four teams, one from each region, then compete in one location for the नेशनल चैंपियनशिप.
The tournament has been at least partially televised चूंकि 1969.
Presently, the games are reported by CBS, TBS, TNT, and truTV by the trade-name NCAA March Madness.
Since 2011, all games are available for viewing nationwide.
As television coverage has grown, so too has the tournament 's popularity.
presently, millions of Americans `` fill out a bracket '', predicting winners of all 67 games.
With 11 national titles, UCLA has the record for the most NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles.
The University of Kentucky is second, with 8 national titles, while Indiana University and the University of North Carolina are tied लिये तीसरा with 5 national titles.
Duke University ranks fifth with 4 नेशनल titles.
A sample of सिंथेटिक motor oil
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of chemical compounds that are artificially made ( synthesized ).
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components rather than whole crude oil, but can also be synthesized from other raw materials.
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating in extremes of temperature, because, in general, it provides superior mechanical and chemical properties than those मिला in परंपरागत mineral oils.
Aircraft jet engines, for example, require the use of synthetic oils, whereas वायुयान piston engines do not.
Jackass is an American reality series, originally shown on MTV from 2000 to 2002, featuring people performing various dangerous, crude self-injuring stunts and pranks.
the दिखाएँ परोसा as a launchpad लिये the टेलीविज़न और एक्टिंग करियर of bam margera, steve-o, और भी जॉनी knoxville, जो previously था तभी a few नाबालिग एक्टिंग भूमिकाएँ.
Since 2002, three Jackass films have been produced and released by MTV corporate sibling Paramount Pictures, continuing the franchise after its run on television.
The show sparked several spin-offs including Viva La Bam, wildboyz, Homewrecker, Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid.
The show placed # 68 on Entertainment Weekly `` New TV Classics '' list.
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3, 1952 ) is an American actress, comedienne, writer, television producer, director, and 2012 presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party.
Barr began her career in stand-up comedy at clubs before gaining fame for her role in the sitcom Roseanne.
The show was a hit and lasted nine seasons, from 1988 to 1997.
She won both an Emmy and a Golden Globe Award लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री for her work on the show.
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess '' persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a realistic show about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism.
The granddaughter of immigrants from Europe and Russia, Barr was the oldest of four children in a working-class Jewish Salt Lake City family ; she was also active in the LDS Church.
In 1974, she married Bill Pentland, with whom she had three children, before divorcing in 1990 and marrying comedian Tom Arnold for four years.
Controversy arose when she sang `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball game, followed by grabbing her crotch and spitting.
After her sitcom ended, वो शुभारम्भ her own talk show, The Roseanne Show, which aired from 1998 to 2000.
In 2005, she returned to stand-up comedy with a world tour.
In 2011, she starred in an unscripted TV show, roseanne 's Nuts, that lasted from July to September of that year, about her life on a Hawaiian farm.
In early 2012, barr घोषित उसके उम्मीदवारी for the Presidential nomination of the Green Party.
Barr lost the nomination to Jill Stein.
She then sought the presidential nomination of the Peace and Freedom Party, which she won on August 4, 2012.
Barr received 61,971 votes in the general चुनाव, placing sixth overall.
Francesco Albani 's 17th century Baptism of Christ is a typical depiction with the sky opening और the Holy Spirit descending as a dove.
The baptism of Jesus marks the beginning of his public मंत्रालय.
This event is recorded in the canonical gospels of मैथ्यू, Mark and Luke.
John 's gospel does not describe Jesus ' baptism, but John the Baptist does testify of the other things in.
In the New Testament, John the Baptist preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins ( ), and declared himself a forerunner of he that would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ).
In so doing he was preparing the रास्ता for Jesus.
Jesus came to the Jordan River जहाँ he was baptized by John.
The baptismal scene includes the heavens opening, a dove-like descent of the Holy Spirit, and a voice from heaven saying, `` This is my beloved Son, in जिसको i am खूब प्रसन्न. ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that Jesus was baptized by जॉन as an historical event to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned.
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically certain facts about him, and often use it as the starting points for the study of the historical Jesus.
The baptism is one of the five major milestones in the gospel narrative of the जीवन of यीशु, the अन्य being the Transfiguration, Crucifixion, Resurrection, and Ascension.
Most Christian denominations view the बपतिस्मा of यीशु as an important event and a basis for the Christian rite of baptism ( see also ).
In Eastern Christianity, Jesus ' baptism is commemorated on 6 January, the feast of Epiphany.
In the Roman Catholic Church, the Anglican नियाज़, the लूथरन Churches and some other Western denominations, it is recalled on a day within the following week, the feast of the baptism of the Lord.
In Roman Catholicism, the baptism of यीशु is one of the Luminous Mysteries sometimes added to the Rosary.
It is a Trinitarian feast in the Eastern Orthodox Churches.
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12, occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
It is one of the eight B vitamins.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body, especially affecting DNA synthesis and regulation, but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor पशु हैं सक्षम of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes जरूरी लिये its synthesis, although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be उत्पादित industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a क्लास of chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ), सब of जिससे have विटामिन कार्यकलाप.
It contains the biochemically rare तत्व cobalt.
जैवसंश्लेषण of the मौलिक ढांचा of the विटामिन is संपन्नता तभी by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन परिवर्तन between अलग फ़ॉर्म of the विटामिन can be संपन्नता in the इंसान देह.
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in nature, but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements, and as a food additive, because of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
The extra utility of these is currently debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are नष्ट.
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of b12, so a कमी of मूलभूत factor, as seen in pernicious anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 war film produced, directed and co-written by Stanley Kubrick.
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel The Short-Timers and stars Matthew Modine, Vincent D'Onofrio, R. Lee ermey, arliss हावर्ड, और आदम Baldwin.
The film follows a platoon of U.S. Marines through their training and the experiences of two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War.
The film 's title refers to the full metal jacket bullet used by infantry riflemen.
The film received critical acclaim.
It received an Academy Award nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay for Kubrick, Michael Herr and गुस्ताव hasford.
In 2001, the American Film Institute placed Full Metal Jacket at # 95 in their `` AFI 's 100 Years... 100 thrills `` poll.
TMZ is a हस्ती news website that debuted on November 8, 2005.
It was a collaboration between AOL and Telepictures Productions, a division of Warner Bros., until Time Warner divested AOL in 2009.
However, it remained संबद्ध with AOL News and has the AOL News logo affixed in the upper right corner.
The name TMZ stands for the ऐतिहासिक `` स्टुडियो मण्डल `` or 30-mile zone radius from the intersection of West Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles.
TMZ 's managing editor is घनघोर levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist who was previously a legal expert for the Los Angeles television station KCBS-TV.
The site दावा कि it does not pay for stories or interviews ; however, Levin has admitted that TMZ does `` sometimes pay sources for leads on stories ''.
Levin has stated that `` everything is researched and vetted for accuracy. ''
A companion TV series, TMZ on TV, debuted on सितंबर 10, 2007.
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film created by Kevin Williamson, directed by Wes Craven and written by Ehren Kruger, starring Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette.
It was released on February 4, 2000 as the third किश्त in the Scream film series.
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and follows Sidney Prescott ( Campbell ) who has gone into self-imposed isolation following the events of the पिछला two films but is drawn to Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 ''.
Scream 3 combines the violence of the slasher genre with comedy and `` whodunit `` mystery while satirizing the cliché of film trilogies.
Unlike the previous Scream films, there was an increased emphasis on comedic elements and the violence and horror was reduced in response to increased public scrutiny about violence in media following the columbine High School massacre.
The film was the concluding chapter of the Scream series until it थी revived with a sequel, Scream 4, in 2011.
Williamson provided a five-page outline for two sequels to Scream when auctioning his असली script, hoping to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise.
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant he was unable to develop a complete script for Scream 3 and writing duties यहूद undertaken by ehren क्रूगर who discarded much of Williamson 's notes.
Craven and Marco Beltrami returned to direct and score the film क्रमशः as वे था साथ the previous two series entries.
उत्पादन was troubled with script rewrites, with pages sometimes only ready on the day of filming, and scheduling difficulties with the main cast.
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically worse than its preceding films, earning over $ 161 million and with many critics claiming that the film had become what Scream originally `` spoofed ``.
Despite ऋणात्मक आलोचना the film did receive praise with reviewers calling it the perfect end to the Scream trilogy.
As of 2012, the film is फिलहाल the क्रमांक 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in North America, following Scream at number 1 and Scream 2 at number 2.
The film 's soundtrack was well-received, spending fourteen weeks on the Billboard 200 and reaching a high of # 32.
Shoulder impingement syndrome, also called painful arc syndrome, supraspinatus syndrome, swimmer 's shoulder, and thrower 's shoulder, is a clinical syndrome which occurs when the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles become irritated and inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space, the passage beneath the acromion.
This can result in pain, weakness and loss of गति at the shoulder.
JLA was a monthly comic book published by DC Comics from January 1997 to April 2006 featuring the Justice League.
The colonial history of the संयुक्त राज्य कवर the इतिहास of European settlements from the start of colonization of America until their incorporation into the United States.
In the late 16th century, England, फ़्रांस, स्पेन and the Netherlands launched major colonization programs in eastern North America.
Small early attempts—such as the English Lost Colony of Roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the death rate of the first arrivals was very high.
nevertheless successful colonies were established.
European settlers came इससे a variety of social and religious groups.
No aristocrats settled permanently, but a number of adventurers, soldiers, farmers, and tradesmen arrived.
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland, the Swedes and Finns of New Sweden, the English Quakers of Pennsylvania, the English Puritans of New England, the English settlers of Jamestown, and the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia, came to the new continent and built colonies with distinctive social, religious, political and economic styles.
Occasionally one colony took कंट्रोल of another ( during wars between their European parents ).
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part of Canada ) did the conquerors expel the previous colonists.
Instead they all जिया पक्ष by side in peace.
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies, and the two chief armed rebellions ( in Virginia in 1676 और in New York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures.
Wars between the French and the British—the French and Indian Wars and Father Rale 's War —were recurrent, and involved french-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers.
By 1760 France was defeated and the British seized इसके colonies.
The four distinct regions were : New England, the Middle Colonies, the Chesapeake Bay Colonies ( Upper South ) and the निम्नतर दक्षिण.
Some historians add a पांचवां region, the Frontier, which was never separately organized.
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the majority of the Native Americans living in the eastern United States had been decimated by new diseases, introduced to them दशकों before by explorers and sailors.
See timeline of Colonial America for list of historical events.
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1924 ) is an American artist, author, actress, heiress, and socialite most noted as an early developer of designer blue jeans.
She is a member of the prominent Vanderbilt family of New York and the mother of CNN 's एंडरसन Cooper.
Greece ( Romanization of greek| ), officially the Hellenic Republic ( ' ), is a country in Southeast Europe.
According to the 2011 census, Greece 's population is around 11 million.
Athens is the nation 's capital and largest city, its urban क्षेत्रफल भी सहित Piraeus.
Greece is strategically located at the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय, एशिया, the मध्य ईस्ट, और अफ़्रीकी, और रै जमीन सीमायें साथ अल्बानियाई, the गणतंत्र of मकदूनिया और बुल्गारिया to the उत्तर, और तुर्कों to the पूर्वोत्तर.
The Aegean समुद्र झूठ to the east of mainland Greece, the Ionian Sea to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the south.
Greece has the 11th longest coastline in the world at in length, featuring a vast number of islands ( approximately 1,400, of which 227 are inhabited ), including Crete, the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, and the Ionian Islands among others.
Eighty percent of Greece consists of mountains, of which Mount ओलम्पस is the highest at.
Modern यूनानियों traces its roots to the civilization of Ancient Greece, generally considered the cradle of Western civilization.
As such, it is the birthplace of democracy, Western philosophy, the Olympic Games, Western literature and historiography, political science, major वैज्ञानिक और गणितीय सिद्धान्त, and Western drama, including both tragedy and comedy.
This legacy is partly reflected in the seventeen UNESCO World Heritage Sites located in Greece, ranking it 7th in Europe and 13th in the world.
The modern Greek state was स्थापित in 1830, following the Greek War of Independence.
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations, has been a member of what is now the European Union since 1981 ( and the eurozone since 2001 ), and has been a member of NATO since 1952.
Greece is a developed country with an advanced, high-income economy and very ऊँची मानकों of जीना, सहित the world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010.
Greece 's economy is also the largest in the Balkans, where Greece is an important regional investor.
A prime meridian is a meridian, i.e. a line of longitude, at जिससे longitude is defined to be 0°.
A prime meridian and its opposite in a 360°-system, the 180th meridian ( at 180° longitude ), form a great circle.
This great circle divides the sphere, e.g. the Earth, into two hemispheres.
If one uses directions of East and West from a defined prime meridian, then they can be पुकारा पूर्वी गोलार्ध and Western Hemisphere.
Gerardus Mercator in his Atlas Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a prime meridian somewhere close to 25°W, passing just to the west of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic.
His 180th meridian runs along the Strait of Anián ( बेरिंग जलसन्धि )
a प्रधान मध्याह्न is ultimately मनमानी, नापसंद an equator, जिससे is संकल्पित by the अक्ष of rotation—and विभिन्न प्रथाओं have महरूम प्रयुक्त or advocated in अलग regions और throughout इतिहास.
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born Minka Dumont Dufay ; June 24, 1980 ) is an American actress.
She is perhaps best known for her roles in Charlie 's Angels, Friday Night Lights, and the रूममेट.
R.O.B. ( Robotic Operating Buddy ), released in Japan as the, is an accessory for the Nintendo Entertainment System ( NES ).
It was released in July 1985 in Japan and later that year in North America.
It had a short product lifespan, with support for only two games which comprised the `` Robot Series '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up.
R.O.B. was released with the intention of portraying the निन्टेंडो entertainment System as something novel in order to alleviate retail fears following the video game crash of 1983.
R.O.B. was available in the Deluxe Set, a configuration for the console that included, among other things, R.O.B. and Gyromite.
Stack-Up was खरीदा separately and included its own physical game pieces.
The Walking Liberty half dollar was a silver 50-cent piece or half डालर सिक्का जारी by the United States Mint from 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. Weinman.
In 1915, the new Mint Director, Robert W. Woolley, came to believe that he was not only allowed but required by law to replace coin designs that had been in use for 25 years.
He therefore began the process of replacing the Barber coinage : dimes, quarters और half dollars, all bearing similar designs by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber, and first struck in 1892.
woolley था the आयोग of ठीक कला conduct a प्रतियोगिता, as a परिणाम of जिससे weinman थी चयनित to डिज़ाइन the dime और हाफ डालर.
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun for the half dollar proved difficult to perfect, and Treasury Secretary William G. McAdoo, whose department included the Mint, considered having Barber create his own design.
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's design into production, although it never struck very well, which may have been a factor in its replacement by the Franklin half dollar beginning in 1948.
Nevertheless, art historian Cornelius Vermeule considered the piece to be among the most beautiful US coins.
Since 1986, a modification of Weinman 's obverse design has been used for the American Silver Eagle.
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle ( SUV ) produced by the Japanese manufacturer Toyota and sold throughout the world from 1984 to present.
In Japan it was known as the Toyota Hilux Surf.
The original 4Runner was a compact SUV and little more than a Toyota pickup truck with a fiberglass shell over the bed, but the model has since undergone significant independent विकास into a cross between a compact and a mid-size SUV.
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara plant in Tahara, Aichi, Japan, or at Hino Motors ' Hamura, Japan plant, and in Brazil.
Its mid-size crossover SUV counterpart is the Toyota Highlander.
This article deals with medicine as practiced by trained professionals from प्राचीन times to the present.
The ancient Egyptians had a प्रणाली of आयुर्विज्ञान कि was very advanced for its time and influenced later medical traditions.
The उन्होंने and Babylonians both introduced the concepts of diagnosis, prognosis, and medical examination.
The Greeks went even further, and advanced as well medical ethics.
The Hippocratic Oath, still taken by doctors today, was written in Greece in the 5th century BCE.
In the medieval era, surgical practices inherited from the ancient masters were improved and then systematized in Rogerius 's the अभ्यास of Surgery.
Universities began व्यवस्थित training of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy.
During the Renaissance, समझना of anatomy improved, and the microscope was invented.
The germ theory of disease in the 19th century led to cures for many संक्रामक रोगों.
सैन्य doctors advanced the methods of trauma treatment and surgery.
Public health उपायों were developed especially in the 19th century as the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary measures.
Advanced research centers opened in the early 20th century, प्रायः connected with major hospitals.
The mid-20th century was characterized by new biological treatments, such as antibiotics.
These advancements, along with developments in chemistry, genetics, and lab technology ( such as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine.
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th century, and new careers opened to women as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ).
The 21st century is characterized by बहुत advanced research involving numerous fields of science.
The Hippocratic Corpus, is a collection of early medical works from ancient Greece strongly associated with the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates and his teachings.
पोटैशियम is a chemical element with symbol K ( from Neo-Latin kalium ) and atomic number 19.
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in air and is very reactive with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.
Because potassium and sodium are chemically very समान, उनके salts were not at first differentiated.
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702, and this was proven in 1807 when potassium and sodium were individually isolated from different salts by electrolysis.
Potassium in nature occurs only in ionic salts.
As such, it is found dissolved in seawater ( which is 0.04 % पोटैशियम by वज़न ), और is part of many minerals.
Most industrial chemical applications of potassium employ the relatively high solubility in water of potassium compounds, such as पोटैशियम soaps.
Potassium metal has only a few special अनुप्रयोग, being replaced in most chemical reactions with sodium metal.
Potassium ions are जरुरी for the function of all living cells.
Potassium ion diffusion is a key mechanism in nerve transmission, and potassium depletion in animals, including humans, results in various cardiac dysfunctions.
Potassium accumulates in plant cells, and thus fresh fruits and vegetables are a good dietary source of it.
Conversely, most plants except specialist halophytes are intolerant of salt, and sodium is present in them only in low concentration.
This resulted in पोटैशियम पहला being isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, giving the element its name.
For the same reason, heavy crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium, and agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of global potassium chemical production.
the सिंगापुर डालर or डालर ( चिह्न : $ ; कोड : sgd ) is the आधिकारिक करेंसी of सिंगापुर.
It is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $, or alternatively S $ to distinguish it from other डालर -denominated currencies.
It is divided into 100 cents.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board still maintain the historic exchangeability of their two currencies, the Singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar, respectively.
The dollar is accepted as `` customary tender '' in Brunei according to the Currency Interchangeability Agreement.
likewise, the Brunei dollar is customarily accepted in Singapore
James Samuel कोलमैन ( May 12, 1926 – March 25, 1995 ) was an American sociologist, theorist and empirical researcher, based chiefly at the University of Chicago.
He was निर्वाचित president of the American Sociological Association.
कोलमैन studied the sociology of education, public policy, and was one of the earliest users of the term `` social capital ``.
His Foundations of Social Theory influenced sociological theory.
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity, 1966 ) were two of the most heavily cited books in educational समाजशास्त्र.
The लैंडमार्क कोलमैन रपट helped रूपांतरण शैक्षणिक सिद्धान्त, reshape national education policies, and influenced public and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the United States.
Superman ( from DC कॉमिक्स ) थी the first superhero created, art by Jim Lee.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super hero ) is a type of stock character possessing `` असाधारण or superhuman powers '' and dedicated to protecting the public.
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938, stories of superheroes—ranging from brief episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media.
The word itself dates to at least 1917.
A female superhero is sometimes called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or super heroine ).
`` SUPER HEROES '' is a ट्रेडमार्क co-owned by DC Comics and Marvel Comics.
By most definitions, characters do not strictly require actual superhuman powers to be deemed superheroes, although terms such as costumed crime fighters or masked vigilantes are sometimes used to refer to those such as Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who share other common superhero traits.
Such characters were generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called Golden Age of कॉमिक किताबे to फर्क them from characters with super-powers.
Normally, superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while भी combating threats against humanity by supervillains, their criminal counterparts.
Often, one of ये supervillains will be the superhero 's archenemy.
As well, some longrunning superheroes, such as Superman, Batman, Spider-Man and Iron Man each has a rogues gallery of enemies.
As well, superheroes sometimes will combat such irregular threats as aliens, magical/ fantasy entities, American war enemies such as nazism or communism, and godlike or demonic creatures.
The following is a historical सूची of actors and primary character roles which appear on the American soap opera One Life to Live.
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and निर्देशित by फ़्रैंक darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who spends nearly two decades in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.
During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd `` Red '' Redding, and finds himself protected by the guards after the वार्डन begins using him in his money laundering operation.
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget, the film received favorable reviews from critics, multiple award nominations, and has since enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.
It was included in the American Film Institute 's 100 Years... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition.
IT management is the discipline whereby all of the technology resources of a firm are managed in accordance with its needs and priorities.
These resources may include tangible investments like computer hardware, software, data, networks and data centre facilities, as well as the staffs who are hired to maintain them.
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of the basic management कृत्यों, जैसे budgeting, staffing, and organizing and controlling, along with other aspects that are unique to technology, like change management, software design, network planning, tech support etc.
The Penitentiary of New Mexico Prison Riot, which took place on February 2 and 3, 1980, in the state 's maximum security prison south of Santa Fe, was one of the most violent prison riots in the history of the American correctional system : 33 inmates died और अधिक than 200 inmates यहूद treated for injuries.
None of the 12 officers taken hostage were killed, लकिन सात were treated for injuries caused by beatings and rapes.
This was the third major riot at the NM State Penitentiary, the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15 June 1953.
Author Roger Morris suggests the मौत टोल may have been higher, as a number of bodies were incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem.
`` Red Cardinal '' redirects here.
For the संयंत्र Erythrina herbacea, see Coral Bean.
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal.
It can be मिला in दक्षिणी कनाडा, through the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico.
It is found in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, और swamps.
The उत्तरी Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ).
It has a distinctive crest on the सिर और a मुखौटा on the फेस जिससे is ब्लैक in the पुरूष और धूसर in the मादा.
The male is a vibrant red, while the female is a dull red-brown shade.
The Northern Cardinal is mainly granivorous, but also feeds on insects and fruit.
The पुरूष behaves territorially, marking out his territory with song.
During courtship, the male feeds seed to the मादा beak-to-beak.
A clutch of three to four eggs is laid, and two to four clutches are produced each year.
It was once prized as a pet, but its sale as cage birds is now banned in the United States by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918.
Surface runoff, also called nonpoint source pollution, from a farm field in Iowa during a rain storm.
Topsoil as खूब as फार्म fertilizers और अन्य संभावित प्रदूषक चलाएं बंद unprotected फार्म फ़ील्ड जब भारी rains occur.
Topsoil is the upper, outermost layer of मृदा, प्रायः the top to.
It has the highest concentration of organic matter and microorganisms and is जहाँ most of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs.
Musical cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' set in Schoenberg 's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, Op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
नोट कि the टीप do नहीं आइये in स्पेलिंग अनुक्रम लकिन हैं सब सटा ( नहीं अलग by अन्य टीप ).
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, Op. 19 ( or Six Little Piano Pieces ) is a set of pieces for solo पियानो लिखा by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg, published in 1913.
McAfee, Inc. ( ) is an American global computer security software company headquartered in Santa Clara, California, and the world 's largest dedicated security technology company.
As of February 28, 2011, McAfee is a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel.
McAfee 's competitors in the एंटीवायरस industry are Avira, BitDefender, BullGuard, F-Secure, Frisk, Kaspersky, Symantec, and Trend Micro to name a few.
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita Lotti 1381 - May 22, 1457 ) was an Italian Augustinian nun, widow and saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church.
Rita was married at an जल्दी age.
The marriage lasted for 18 years, during which she is remembered for her Christian values as a model wife and mother who made efforts to convert her husband from his abusive behavior.
Upon the हत्या of her husband by another feuding family, she sought to dissuade her sons from revenge.
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters, where she was known for practicing mortification of the flesh, along with the apparent efficacy of her prayers.
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession, and is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on her forehead, which the Roman Catholic Church claims to have been a partial stigmata.
The Roman Catholic Church, under the pontificate of Pope Leo XIII officially canonized Rita on May 24, 1900, while her feast day is celebrated every May 22.
In many परहेज़गारों कैथोलिक देशों, Rita is known to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning women.
उत्तर अमेरिका is a continent wholly within the Northern Hemisphere and almost wholly within the Western Hemisphere.
It is also considered a northern उपमहाद्वीप of the Americas.
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean, to the east by the Atlantic Ocean, to the west and south by the प्रशांत समंदर, और to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea.
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000 square kilometers ( 9,540,000 square miles ), about 4.8 % of the planet 's surface or about 16.5 % of its land area.
As of July 2008, its population was estimated at nearly 529 million people across 23 independent states, representing about 7.5 % of the human population.
North America is the third-largest continent in area, following Asia and Africa, and the fourth in population after Asia, Africa, and Europe.
The first people to live in उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद paleoindians who began to arrive during the last glacial period by crossing the Bering land bridge.
वे differentiated into a number of diverse cultures and communities across the continent.
The largest and most advanced Pre-Columbian civilizations in North America were the Aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in Central America.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th and 17th centuries, wiping out large numbers of the native populations and beginning an era of European dominance.
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28, 1985 ), better known by his stage name J. कोल, is an American hip-hop recording artist and record producer from Fayetteville, North Carolina.
In 2009, he became the first artist to sign to Jay-Z 's Roc Nation label.
His long-awaited debut album, entitled Cole World : The Sideline Story, was released on सितंबर 27, 2011.
The album debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200, Top R & B Albums and Top Rap Albums chart, selling more than 218,000 in its first week.
He received a नामांकन लिये Best New Artist at the 54th Grammy Awards.
The two main characters of the series, Ratchet ( right ) and Clank ( left ).
Ratchet & clank is a series of platform video games.
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles, such as PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 with the exclusion of Size Matters and Secret Agent Clank, which were developed by High Impact Games for the PlayStation पोर्टेबल.
Every game in the series has been released for every कंसोल, as the IP is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment.
An animated feature film adaptation produced by Rainmaker entertainment और Blockade Entertainment is scheduled for a theatrical release sometime in 2015.
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic human-like अक्षर known as a Lombax, who is a mechanic ) and Clank ( a diminutive, sentient robot ) as they travel through the universe, saving it from evil forces on a regular basis.
The series is noted for the inclusion of many exotic and अद्वितीय, over the शीर्ष हथियार and devices, a concept that Insomniac Games also expanded into their other games.
A will or testament is a legal घोषणा by which a person, the testator, names one or more persons to manage his/her estate and provides for the transfer of his property at death.
For the devolution of property not disposed of by will, see उत्तराधिकार and intestacy.
In the strictest sense, a `` will '' has historically been limited to real property while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of personal property ( thus giving rise to the popular title of the document as `` Last Will and Testament '' ), though this distinction is seldom observed today.
A will may also create a testamentary विश्वास that is effective only after the death of the testator.
the 19.9 mw gemasolar सौर संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति 24 घंटों a दिन.
सौर उर्जा, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar उर्जा technologies शामिल solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and सौर thermal collectors to harness the energy.
passive सौर तकनीकों शामिल orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण, और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate एयर.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
ये advantages are global.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they जरूर be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और need to be widely shared ''.
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ), known to Roman Catholics as Saint Thomas More since 1935, थी an English lawyer, social philosopher, author, statesman, and noted Renaissance humanist.
He was an important councillor to Henry VIII of इंग्लैण्ड and was Lord Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532.
He was canonized by Pope Pius XI in 1935 as one of the early martyrs of the schism that separated the Church of England from Rome in the 16th century.
In 2000, Pope John Paul II declared him patron of Catholic कूटनीतिज्ञों और राजनेता.
More was an opponent of the Protestant Reformation, in particular of Martin Luther and William Tyndale.
However, since 1980, he is also commemorated by the Church of इंग्लैण्ड as a reformation martyr.
अधिक coined the शब्द `` यूटोपिया `` – a नाम he दिया to the आदर्श और काल्पनिक द्वीप स्वदेश, the राजनैतिक प्रणाली of जिससे he वर्णित in यूटोपिया, प्रकाशित in 1516.
He opposed the King 's separation from the Roman Catholic Church and refused to accept उसे as Supreme Head of the Church of England, a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534.
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath required by the First Succession Act, because the act disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon.
In 1535, he was tried for treason, convicted on perjured testimony, and beheaded.
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at straws '' to mean `` desperately trying even useless things '', in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation.
Intellectuals and कूटनीतिज्ञों across Europe were stunned by More 's execution.
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul was more pure than any snow, whose genius was such that England never था और never again will have its like ''.
There was a more controversial side to More 's life, because he advocated the persecution and execution of Protestants who refused to recant their faith.
However, the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive इस in लाइट of the times he lived in and his martyrdom in the Roman Catholic cause.
दो सदियां बाद जोनाथन स्विफ्ट कहा अधिक थी `` the व्यक्ति of the महानतम पुण्य इस किंगडम कभी उत्पादित '', a भावना साथ which Samuel Johnson agreed.
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said in 1977 कि अधिक थी `` the पहला ग्रेट अंग्रेज जिसको we महसूस कि we जान, the सबसे saintly of humanists, the सबसे इंसान of संतो, the सार्वभौमिक man of हमारी कूल उत्तरी पुनर्जागरण. ''
Captain Nemo, also known as Prince Dakkar, is a fictional character invented by the French science fiction author Jules Verne.
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels, बीस हजार लीग Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious Island ( 1874 ), and makes a cameo appearance in Verne 's play Journey Through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
Nemo, one of the most famous antiheroes in fiction, is a mysterious figure.
The son of an Indian Raja, he is a scientific genius who roams the depths of the sea in his submarine, the Nautilus, which was निर्मित on a उजाड़ द्वीप.
Nemo tries to project a stern, controlled confidence, but he is driven by a thirst for vengeance and a hatred of imperialism ( particularly the British Empire ).
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of his crew members and even by the मौतों of enemy sailors.
Nemo has appeared in various adaptations of Verne 's novels, including films, where he has been portrayed by a number of different actors.
He has furthermore been adopted by other authors for inclusion in their novels, सबसे notably in Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg.
Listed below are the Major League Baseball teams with the best season won-lost records in history, as determined by winning प्रतिशत (.700 or better ), minimum 120 games played.
ध्वनिक coupler मॉडेम
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device that modulates an एनालॉग वाहक signal to encode digital information, and also demodulates such a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information.
The goal is to produce a signal that can be transmitted easily and decoded to reproduce the original digital data.
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog signals, from light emitting diodes to radio.
The सबसे परिचित example is a voice band modem that turns the digital data of a personal computer into modulated electrical signals in the voice frequency range of a telephone channel.
These signals can be transmitted over telephone lines and demodulated by another modem at the receiver side to recover the digital data.
Modems are generally classified by the amount of data they can send in a given unit of time, usually expressed in bits per दूसरी ( bit/s, or bps ), or bytes per second ( B/s ).
Modems can alternatively be classified by their symbol rate, measured in baud.
The baud unit denotes symbols per second, or the number of times per second the modem sends a new signal.
For example, the ITU V.21 standard used audio frequency shift keying साथ two possible frequencies corresponding to two distinct symbols ( or one bit per symbol ), to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud.
By contrast, the original ITU V.22 standard, which was able to संचारण और receive four distinct symbols ( two bits per symbol ), handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, जिससे announced that the thirteen American colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a new nation—the United States of America.
John Adams was a leader in pushing for independence, which was unanimously स्वीकृत on July 2.
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft of the दस्तावेज़, जिससे कॉंग्रेस होता edit to produce the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the Independence दिन is मनाये on July 4, although Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4, कॉंग्रेस issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms.
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely वितरित and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence, is प्रदर्शित at the नेशनल Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4, the तिथि of its signing was August 2.
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost जबकि सब अन्य नक़ल have महरूम derived from this original document.
The sources and interpretation of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances against King George III, and by asserting certain natural and legal rights, including a right of क्रान्ति.
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence, the text of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution.
Since then, it has come to be considered a major statement on human rights, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '', containing `` the most potent and consequential शब्द in अमरीकी इतिहास. ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to which the United States should strive.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy, and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of अधिकारहीन people throughout the world.
The Economy of Greenland can be characterized as small, mixed and vulnerable.
The present economy consists of a big public sector and comprehensive foreign trade, which has resulted in an economy with periods of strong growth, considerable inflation, unemployment problems and extreme dependence on capital inflow इससे डेनमार्क और use of outside, mainly Danish, skilled labor.
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the economy is critically dependent upon substantial support from the Danish government, which supplies परिचय हाफ the revenues of the घर नियम सरकारी who in turn employ about 8,000 Greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ).
Unemployment nonetheless remains high, with the rest of the economy dependent upon demand for निर्यात of झींगा and fish.
हाइड्रोजन is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक h और परमाणु क्रमांक 1.
With an atomic वज़न of ( लिये hydrogen-1 ), hydrogen is the lightest element and its monatomic form ( H1 ) is the most abundant chemical substance, constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass.
Non- remnant stars हैं mainly composed of hydrogen in its plasma state.
At standard temperature and pressure, hydrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2.
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in molecules such as water and organic compounds because hydrogen readily forms covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements.
Hydrogen plays a particularly important role in acid-base रसायन साथ many reactions exchanging protons between soluble molecules.
In ionic compounds, it can take a negative charge ( an anion known as a hydride and written as H− ), or as a positively charged species H+.
The latter cation is written as though composed of a bare proton, but in वास्तविकता, हाइड्रोजन cations in ionic compounds always occur as more complex species.
The most आम isotope of hydrogen is protium ( name rarely used, symbol 1H ) with a single proton and no neutrons.
As the simplest atom known, the hydrogen atom has been of theoretical use.
For example, as the only neutral atom with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger equation, the study of the energetics and bonding of the hydrogen atom played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics.
Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced in the early 16th century, via the mixing of metals with acids.
In 1766–81, हेनरी कैवेंडिश थी the पहला to recognize that hydrogen gas was a discrete substance, and that it produces water when burned, a property which later gave it its name : in Greek, hydrogen means `` water-former ''.
Industrial production is mainly from the भाप reforming of natural gas, and less often from more energy-intensive hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water.
Most hydrogen is employed near its production site, with the two largest uses being fossil fuel प्रसंस्करण ( e.g., hydrocracking ) and ammonia production, mostly for the fertilizer market.
हाइड्रोजन is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle many metals, complicating the design of pipelines and storage tanks.
Unstoppable is a 2010 American action thriller film directed by Tony Scott, written by Mark Bomback, and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine.
The film, loosely based on the real-life CSX 8888 incident, tells the story of a runaway freight train, and the two men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it.
It was Scott 's final feature film before his death in 2012.
The film was released in the United States and Canada on November 12, 2010, and in the United Kingdom on November 24, 2010.
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a `` Certified Fresh '' दरजा on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews and a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at Metacritic.
The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Sound Editing at the 83rd Academy Awards, but lost to Inception.
In photography, bracketing is the general technique of taking several shots of the same subject using different camera settings.
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image with a single shot, especially when a small variation in exposure parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting image.
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a setting on the camera to take several bracketed shots ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between each shot ).
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple shots, it is typically, but not always, used for static subjects.
Insulated glazing ( IG ), more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane, and increasingly triple glazing/pane ) are double or triple glass window panes अलग by an air or other gas filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of the building envelope.
Insulated Glass Units are manufactured with glass in range of thickness from 3 mm to 10 mm or more in खास applications.
Laminated or tempered glass may also be used as part of the construction.
Most units are manufactured with the same thickness of glass used on both panes लकिन खास अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as acoustic attenuation or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit.
A sectioned diagram of a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( IGU ), indicating the क्रमांकन convention used in this article.
Surface # 1 is facing बाहर, सतह # 2 is the inside surface of the exterior pane, Surface # 3 is the outside surface of the interior pane, and Surface # 4 is the inside surface of interior pane.
The window frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals are shown in रेड ( # 7 ), the internal reveal is on the right hand side ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of असामयिक failure ), manufacturers use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit.
For example, a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm फलक on the exterior and a 3 mm pane on the interior.
These variations are allowed for architectural and cost reasons.
Other combinations can be specified and produced but the manufacturer may reserve the right to limit the term of the वारंटी or refuse to warranty the unit altogether.
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing बाहर ), सतह # 2 ( inside of outside pane ), Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and Surface # 4 ( inside surface of inside pane ).
Applying the corresponding nomenclature for triple paned इकाई results in surfaces # 1 through # 6.
The performance of insulating glazing can be modified through the use of the following:
A typical installation of insulated glazing windows with uPVC window frames.
सेलेनियम is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक se और परमाणु क्रमांक 34.
It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between those of its periodic table column-adjacent chalcogen elements गंधक और tellurium.
It rarely occurs in इसके elemental राज्य in प्रकृति, or as pure अयस्क यौगिकों.
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` Moon '' ) was discovered in 1817 by Jöns Jacob Berzelius, who noted the similarity of the new element to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ).
Selenium is found impurely in metal sulfide ores, where it partially replaces the sulfur.
Commercially, selenium is produced as a byproduct in the refining of these ores, most often during copper production.
Minerals that are pure selenide or selenate compounds are known, but are rare.
The chief commercial उपयोग लिये selenium today are in glassmaking and in pigments.
Selenium is a semiconductor and is used in photocells.
Uses in electronics, once important, have been mostly supplanted by silicon सेमीकंडक्टर devices.
Selenium continues to be used in a few types of DC power surge protectors and one type of fluorescent quantum dot.
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts, but trace amounts are necessary for cellular function in many organisms, सहित सब पशु.
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase ( which indirectly reduce certain oxidized molecules in animals and some plants ).
It is also found in three deiodinase enzymes, which convert one thyroid हार्मोन to another.
Selenium requirements in plants differ by species, with some plants requiring relatively large amounts, and others apparently requiring none.
the संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 2008 थी the 56th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
It was held on Tuesday, नवम्बर 4, 2008.
Democrat Barack Obama, then the junior Senator from Illinois, defeated Republican John McCain, the senior Senator from Arizona.
As the campaign progressed, the War in Iraq and outgoing Republican President George W. Bush had become increasingly unpopular, and the major-party candidates ran on a मंच of बदलें और reform.
Domestic policy and the economy eventually emerged as the main themes in the last few months of the election campaign after the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s.
Obama would go on to win a decisive victory over McCain in both the चुनावी and popular vote.
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history, and won the popular and electoral vote by the largest margin in 12 years, as well as the largest percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century.
This was the first U.S. presidential election in which an African American was elected, having also been the first in which an अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी जीती the nomination of either major party.
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major party candidates were sitting U.S. Senators, only the third time ( after 1920 and 1960 ) that any sitting U.S. Senator was elected president, and only the second time that the जीतना अध्यक्ष और Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S. Senators.
This was also the first चुनाव चूंकि 1952 in which neither of the major parties ' nominees was the incumbent President or Vice President.
The Sovereign Prince or Princess of Monaco is the reigning monarch and सिर of राज्य of the Principality of Monaco.
All princes or princesses have officially taken the name of the House of Grimaldi, but have belonged to various other houses ( Goyon de Matignon, Polignac ) in male line.
The reigning Prince is Albert II.
Visualization of fragmentation and then of defragmentation
In the मेंटेनेंस of file systems, defragmentation is a process that reduces the amount of fragmentation.
It does this by physically आयोजन the contents of the mass storage device used to store files into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ).
It also attempts to create larger regions of free space using compaction to impede the return of fragmentation.
Some defragmentation utilities try to keep smaller files within a single directory together, as they are often accessed in sequence.
Defragmentation is लाभदायक और प्रासंगिक to file systems on electromechanical disk drives.
The movement of the hard drive 's read/write heads over different areas of the disk when accessing fragmented files is slower, compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments.
A service-level agreement ( SLA ) is a part of a service contract where a service is formally defined.
in अभ्यास, the पद sla is sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the contracted डिलीवरी समय ( of the सेवा or प्रदर्शन ).
As an example, internet service providers will commonly include service level agreements within the terms of their contracts with customers to define the level ( s ) of service being sold in plain language terms.
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean time between failures ( MTBF ), mean time to repair or mean time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; various data rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details.
संघ स्टेशन is a पूर्व खरीदारी मॉल in संघ नगर, जॉर्जिया, in दक्षिणपश्चिम मैट्रो अटलांटा सटा to अंतरराज्यीय 85.
After new ownership and renovations in 2006, the name was changed from Shannon southpark मॉल in 2007 to Union Station Mall.
A previous renovation was done in the late 1990s.
The mall has been closed since नवम्बर 2010.
This map shows the contiguous United States and, in insets at the निम्नतर बाएँ, the दो राज्य that are not contiguous.
The संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य हैं the 48 adjoining u.S. राज्य on the महाद्वीप of उत्तर अमेरिका कि हैं दक्षिण of कनाडा और उत्तर of मैक्सिको, प्लस the ज़िला of कोलंबिया.
The पद excludes the राज्य of Alaska and Hawaii, and all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions, such as Puerto Rico.
Together, the 48 contiguous states and D.C. occupy a combined area of, which is 1.58 % of the कुल surface area of the Earth.
Of this, is land, composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area.
Officially, is water क्षेत्रफल, composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water area.
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the nation 's population, and a density of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) लिये the स्वदेश as a whole.
`` Why '' is the title of a song recorded by अमरीकी country band Rascal Flatts.
It is the third single from their sixth studio album, Unstoppable.
It was released to radio stations on September 29, 2009 and debuted at # 44 on the U.S. Billboard US Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 10, 2009.
It was written by Rob Mathes और Allen Shamblin.
utilization प्रबन्धन is the मूल्यांकन of the appropriateness, medical need and efficiency of health care services procedures and facilities according to established criteria or guidelines and under the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan.
Typically it शामिल नई activities or decisions based upon the analysis of a case.
Utilization management describes proactive procedures, including discharge planning, concurrent planning, pre-certification and clinical case appeals.
It also covers proactive processes, such as concurrent clinical reviews and peer reviews, as well as appeals introduced by the provider, payer or patient.
As pre-certification and concurrent review of cases grew, utilization management spun out of utilization review.
While not synonymous, health care professionals tend to use the terms as interchangeable.
The difference is utilization management is and intends to manage health care cases efficiently and cost effectively पहले और during health care administration.
Utilization review is more considering whether health care was appropriately applied after it was administered.
There are four basic तकनीकों in utilization management:
Demand प्रबन्धन
utilization पुनर्विलोकन
मामला Management
बीमारी Management
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age novel by S. E. hinton, पहला published in 1967 by Viking Press.
Hinton was 15 when she started writing the novel, but did most of the work when she was sixteen and a junior in ऊँची school.
Hinton was 18 when the book was प्रकाशित.
The book follows two rival groups, the Greasers and the Socs ( pronounced by the author as, short for socials ), who are divided by their socioeconomic status.
The book takes प्लेस in तुलसा, Oklahoma, in 1965, but it is never stated in the book.
A film adaptation was produced in 1983, and a little-known short-lived television series appeared in 1990, picking up जहाँ the movie left off.
the संयुक्त राज्य House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is अक्सर referred to as the House.
The other house is the Senate.
The composition and शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं established in Article One of the United States Constitution.
the प्रमुख शक्ति of the हाउस is to pass संघीय विधान कि affects the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले बनने विधि ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस और सीनेट re-pass the विधान साथ a two-thirds बहुमत in प्रत्येक कक्ष ).
the हाउस has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, and to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College.
Each u.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at least one representative.
The most populous state, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, currently has 53 representatives.
The total number of voting representatives is fixed by law at 435.
Each representative serves for a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the House, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever party रै more voting members.
The House meets in the south wing of the United States Capitol.
A supply chain is actually a complex और डायनेमिक सप्लाई and demand network.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
A supply chain is a system of organizations, people, activities, information, and resources involved in moving a उत्पाद or सेवा from supplier to customer.
Supply chain activities transform natural resources, raw materials, and components into a finished product that is वितरित to the समाप्त ग्राहक.
In sophisticated supply chain systems, used products may re-enter the supply chain at any point where अवशेष मान is recyclable.
Supply chains कड़ी मान chains.
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written and recorded by Jimi Hendrix in 1967, released as the दूसरी सिंगल by the जिमि हेंड्रिक्स Experience in both the United Kingdom and the United States.
It later appeared on the अमरीकी संस्करण of the band 's 1967 album Are You Experienced.
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the `` archetypical psychedelic ड्रग songs of the sixties ''.
`` Purple Haze 's '' guitar virtuosic techniques would be emulated by many metal guitarists.
A close up चित्र of a rhinoceros skin.
Skin is the नरम बाहरी covering of vertebrates.
अन्य एनिमल छतरियाँ ऐसे as the सन्धिपाद बहि have अलग developmental उत्पत्ति, ढांचा और रासायनिक संयोजन.
The adjective cutaneous means `` of the skin '' ( from Latin cutis, स्किन ).
In mammals, the skin is the largest organ of the integumentary system बना up of अनेक layers of ectodermal tissue, and guards the underlying muscles, bones, ligaments and internal organs.
Skin of a अलग प्रकृति exists in amphibians, reptiles, and birds.
All mammals have कुछ बाल on उनके skin, even marine mammals which appear to be hairless.
The skin अंतरफलक साथ the पर्यावरण और is the पहला लकीर of रक्षा इससे बाह्य कारकों.
For उदाहरण, the स्किन plays a key role in protecting the body against pathogens and excessive water loss.
Its other functions are insulation, temperature regulation, sensation, and the production of vitamin D folates.
severely damaged skin may heal by forming scar tissue.
This is sometimes discoloured and depigmented.
The thickness of स्किन also varies from location to location on an organism.
In humans for example, the skin located under the eyes and around the eyelids is the thinnest skin in the body at 0.5 mm thick, and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles.
The skin on the palms and the soles of the feet is 4 mm thick and the thickest skin in the body.
Fur is dense बाल.
Primarily, fur augments the insulation the skin provides but can also serve as a secondary sexual characteristic or as camouflage.
On some animals, the skin is very hard and thick, and can be processed to create leather.
Reptiles and fish have hard protective scales on their skin for protection, and birds have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins.
Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier to passage of chemicals and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces.
For उदाहरण, a frog sitting in an anesthetic solution would be sedated quickly, as the chemical diffuses through its skin.
थामस Scott
The Rev. Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is principally known for his best-selling work A Commentary On The Whole Bible and The Force of Truth, and as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society.
Daniel Radcliffe, who portrays Harry Potter, has महरूम the icon of the film series since the release of the first film in 2001.
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland have voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling.
Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have निभाई हैरी Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the films.
When they were डाल only Radcliffe had previously acted in a film.
Complementing them on screen हैं ऐसे अभिनेताओं as हेलेना bonham कार्टर, जिम broadbent, जॉन cleese, रोबी coltrane, warwick डेविस, ralph fiennes, माइकल gambon, ब्रेंडन gleeson, रिचर्ड ग्रीफिथ, रिचर्ड हैरिस, जॉन ठेस, जेसन isaacs, miriam margolyes, हेलेन mccrory, गेरी oldman, एलन rickman, फिओना शॉ, मैगी स्मिथ, टिमोथी spall, imelda staunton, दाउद thewlis, एम्मा थॉम्पसन, और जूली walters, among अन्य.
Thirteen actors have appeared as the same character in all eight films of the franchise.
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in the series, are asked in jest why they have not been cast.
When David Yates was directing the fifth film, Bill Nighy, who had previously collaborated with Yates on three of his television projects, said that he joked with Yates that maybe now he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter.
`` But nobody called '', nighy added.
But in 2009, Yates cast Nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in deathly Hallows.
Nighy said, `` I am no longer the only English actor not to be in Harry Potter and I am very pleased. ''
Jude Law has quipped, `` Nobody 's asked me.
I was a bit too old for Harry ''.
When a reporter compared potions प्राध्यापक होरेस Slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the series ' connection to `` every notable British actor, '' Jim Broadbent, who plays Slughorn said, `` Well, not every actor gets invited.
I know some who are स्टिल waiting. ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus, each director has had a cameo appearance in his respective film : Alfonso Cuarón appears as a wizard holding a candle during a scene at The Three Broomsticks in Prisoner of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is heard briefly as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix.
Producer David Heyman also makes a cameo appearance as a wizard featured within a magical moving portrait in the third film, कैदी of azkaban.
J. K. Rowling gave a speech during the world premiere of the final film in the series— Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London, England.
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the talented actors और actresses who have appeared in all the Harry Potter movies.
Rowling also announced that there are सात Harry Potter film series cast members, who she refers to as `` The Big Seven '', they are Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Tom Felton, Matthew Lewis, Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright.
The list below is sorted by film and अक्षर, as some characters have been portrayed by multiple actors.
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the actor or actress lent तभी his or her voice for his or her film character
( y ) indicates the actor or actress portrayed the role in a flashback scene or when the character was young.
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did not appear in any new footage for the film ; footage from an earlier film or films was used.
A light grey cell ( such as the one in the `` Charity Burbage '' row in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the character थी नहीं in the film adaptation.
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding सिद्धान्त ( स्वीकृत by members as 'spiritual principles, ' based on the approved literature ) outlining a course of action for recovery from, compulsion, or other behavioral problems.
Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism, the Twelve Steps were first published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939.
The method was then adapted and became the न्यास of other twelve-step programs.
As summarized by the American Psychological Association, the process involves the following:
admitting that one can not control one 's addiction or compulsion ;
recognizing a उच्चतर power that can give strength ;
examining past errors with the help of a sponsor ( experienced member ) ;
making amends for ये errors ;
learning to live a new जीवन with a new code of behavior ;
helping अन्य who suffer from the same addictions or compulsions.
Witness impeachment, in the विधि of प्रमाण of the United States, is the process of calling into question the credibility of an individual who is testifying in a trial.
The Federal Rules of Evidence contain the rules governing impeachment in federal courts.
Party leaders and whips of the United राज्य हाउस of Representatives are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are also known as floor leaders.
The u.S. House of Representatives does not officially use the term `` Minority Leader '' although the media frequently do.
The हाउस बजाय uses the terms `` Republican Leader '' or `` Democratic Leader '' depending on which party holds a minority of seats.
The current House Majority Leader is रिपब्लिकन eric Cantor, while the current House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi.
The current House Majority Whip is Republican Kevin McCarthy, while the current House अल्पसंख्यक Whip is Democrat Steny Hoyer.
Following the outbreak of World War I in 1914, the German Army opened the Western Front by first invading Luxembourg and Belgium, then gaining military control of महत्वपूर्ण industrial regions in France.
The tide of the advance was dramatically turned with the Battle of the Marne.
following the race to the sea, both sides dug in along a meandering line of fortified trenches, stretching from the North Sea to the Swiss frontier with France.
This line remained essentially अपरिवर्तित for most of the war.
Between 1915 and 1917 there were several major offensives along this front.
The attacks employed massive artillery bombardments and massed infantry advances.
However, a combination of entrenchments, यंत्र गन nests, कंटीले तार, और तोपखाने repeatedly inflicted severe casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders.
as a परिणाम, no significant advances were made.
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead, the Battle of the Somme with more than [ an estimated ] million casualties, and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties.
in an प्रयत्न to ब्रेक the deadlock, इस सामने देखी the परिचय of नई सैन्य प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित ज़हर गैस, वायुयान और tanks.
But it was only after the adoption of improved tactics that some degree of गतिशीलता थी restored.
The German Spring Offensive of 1918 was made possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that चिह्नित the समाप्त of the विरोध on the Eastern Front.
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics, the German armies advanced nearly to the west, which marked the deepest advance by either side since 1914 and very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
In spite of the generally stagnant nature of this front, this theater would prove decisive.
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies during the second half of 1918 persuaded the German commanders that defeat was inevitable, and the government was forced to sue for conditions of an armistice.
the शर्तें of peace were agreed upon with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919.
The following is a list of recurring and minor characters in the Disney Channel Original Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody.
These characters were regularly घुमाया, often disappearing for long periods during the series.
The following list of characters has been sorted alphabetically, by first name.
कुछ of the वर्ण था no पिछला नाम और सबसे यहूद commonly referred to by उनके पहला नाम so इस appeared to be the सबसे लॉजिकल विधि.
In the case of Chef Paolo, who had no known first name, they have been listed by title.
The First Lady of the United States ( flotus ) is the hostess of the White House.
क्युकी इस स्थिति is traditionally filled by the wife of the President of the United States, the title is most often applied to the wife of a sitting president.
The वर्तमान First Lady is Michelle Obama.
After her husband Barack Obama was re-elected on November 6, 2012, वो is scheduled to serve until January 20, 2017.
Septic shock is a medical condition as a result of severe infection and sepsis, though the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular site.
It can cause अनेक अंग dysfunction सिंड्रोम ( formerly ज्ञात as अनेक अंग विफलता ) और मौत.
Its most common victims are children, immunocompromised individuals, and the elderly, as their immune systems can not deal with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults.
Frequently, patients suffering from septic shock are cared for in intensive care units.
The मृत्यु rate from septic shock is approximately 25–50 %.
Kevin Brereton ( born February 20, 1972 ), better known by his stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ), is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter and record producer.
His given name may also be cited as Kheaven, a spelling he later adopted.
The alias `` k-os '', spelled with a lower case `` k '', was intended to be less aggressive than the pseudonyms of अन्य rappers जिनकी names were all upper case, such as KRS-One.
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self, '' although in a later interview he said that it originally stood for `` Kevin 's Original Sound. '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres, including rap, funk, rock, and reggae.
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times expressing criticism of mainstream hip hop culture 's obsession with money, fame and glorification of violence.
A musician as well as a producer, k-os has written and produced nearly every part of all four of his albums.
k-os usually performs with a live band, something that is uncommon in the hip hop genre.
He sometimes plays गिटार और कुंजीपटल दोनो दौरान सजीव प्रदर्शन और in the स्टुडियो.
k-os received his पहला musical exposure with the single `` Musical Essence '', released in 1993.
After the release of his second single `` Rise Like the Sun '' in 1996, he withdrew from the industry because he was dissatisfied with his musical style.
he reappeared briefly in 1999 और released उसके डेब्यू एल्बम निकास in 2002.
the album received positive reviews but sold relatively few copies.
He released उसके दूसरी एल्बम Joyful Rebellion in 2004, which received platinum status in Canada.
A third album,, थी released in 2006 and also went platinum.
His fourth album, यस !
, was released in 2009.
His fifth album BLack on BLonde was released in 2013.
The official 2007 edition of the UCC.
Even the confidential rough drafts of the UCC were saved and published as a 10-volume set.
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ), first published in 1952, is one of a number of uniform acts that have महरूम promulgated in संयोजन साथ प्रयत्न to harmonize the विधि of बिक्री and other commercial transactions in all 50 states within the United States of America.
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of चढ़ाई रूट with one or more stops at a belay station.
प्रत्येक खण्ड of actual climbing between stops at the belay stations is called a pitch.
The leader ascends the pitch, placing gear and stopping to anchor themselves to the belay station.
The reason for the stops can be determined by choice, convention or necessity.
For example:
The rope is too short to do the entire route in एक पिच ( necessity ).
the नेता रै चलाएं आउट of सुरक्षात्मक गियर ( necessity ).
There is a convenient protectable ledge, or fixed bolts placed by previous climbers, at the location for a belay station ( convention ).
The leader chooses to rest or exchange leads before the next section of the climb ( choice ).
The general purpose of these stops is to allow the second to ascend to the point of the lead climber while collecting the protective gear from the route in the कोर्स of the lead climber 's ascent.
At the belay स्टेशन, the protective gear is collected, possibly exchanged to a new leader, and the leader of the next pitch ascends the route.
A diagram showing an I गठन on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American फ़ुटबॉल, each team has eleven players on the field at one time.
The specific role that a player takes on the field is called their position.
Under the modern rules of American football, teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions, that is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the team with the ball, who is trying to score ), the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the बॉल इससे उन्हें ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various specific positions exist depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as शीर्षक ii of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of निश्चित substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a New Jersey Transit park-and-ride station in Wayne, New Jersey along the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to New York City and विभिन्न अन्य अंक in the क्षेत्रफल as खूब as Montclair-Boonton Line train service to New York, Hoboken, and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University.
It is located off of the southbound lanes of New Jersey Route 23 on West Belt Road, near the इंटरचेंज जहाँ Route 23, Interstate 80, and U.S. Route 46 meet, across from the Willowbrook Mall.
The station opened in January 2008 and has 1,000 parking spaces.
New Jersey Transit intends for this combined rail और बस स्टेशन to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन, '' कि होगा सहायता relieve the habitual जमघट at the West Belt Road Interchange, where the three major highways meet.
In addition, the construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at what was then Route 23 Park & Ride, a bus depot on Route 23 North that has चूंकि महरूम renamed माँ 's पार्क & सवारी, और the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the now-Mother 's site had limited parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook.
The Wayne Township bus garage is located on the opposite side of Route 23.
There has been a प्रस्ताव to build a parking deck with another thousand spots and develop the land at the station.
In addition to Montclair-Boonton trains, the Transit Center is served by the following New Jersey Transit bus lines:
75 to न्यूर्क Penn Station and Butler
194 to Port प्राधिकार Bus Terminal and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port Authority Bus Terminal and William Paterson विश्वविद्यालयों
324 to Port Authority and Wayne रूट 23
748 to willowbrook Mall and Paterson
the at चिह्न @ is भी commonly पुकारा the at प्रतीक, ampersat, apetail or वाणिज्यिक at in english—and कम commonly a चौड़ी दायरा of अन्य शर्तें.
The fact that there is no single word in अंग्रेज़ी लिये the प्रतीक रै prompted कुछ लेखक to use the French arobase or Spanish and Portuguese arroba—or to coin new words such as asperand, ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency.
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it was not included on the keyboard of the earliest commercially successful typewriters, but was on at least one 1889 model and the very successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood No. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
It is अभी universally included on computer keyboards.
In recent years, its meaning has grown to include the sense of being `` located at, '' `` and, '' or `` directed at '', especially in email addresses and सोशल media, particularly Twitter.
The चिह्नित is encoded at.
The Catcher in the Rye is a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger.
Originally published for adults, it has since become popular with adolescent readers for its themes of teenage angst and alienation.
It रै महरूम अनूदित into almost all of the world 's major languages.
Around 250,000 copies are sold each year with total sales of more than 65 million books.
The novel 's protagonist and antihero, Holden Caulfield, has become an प्रतीक लिये teenage rebellion.
The novel was included on Times 2005 list of the 100 best English-language novels written since 1923, and it was named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century.
It has been frequently challenged in the United States and other countries for its liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality.
It also deals with complex issues of identity, belonging, connection, and alienation.
Skeletal मांसपेशियां homo sapiens
This is a table of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on both sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples range from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which शामिल muscles relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of each muscle from the standard anatomical position.
In other positions, other actions may be performed.
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American reality television series created by Jonathan Murray for the Oxygen television स्टेशन.
The show centers on seven feisty and mischievous women साथ different backgrounds and personalities, who have a number of psychological and behavioral problems.
They are introduced to the show off their pernicious behavior and accomplish specific goals.
The cast, deemed `` bad girls '', enjoy a luxurious lifestyle in a fine mansion for three months, during which they must obey specified rules.
Their lives inside – and outside – of the house are chronicled and अंकित by the उत्पादन team.
The Bad Girls Club is broadcast in five countries ( United States, Netherlands, Australia, Hungary, and Sweden ).
It रै प्राप्त negative reviews from critics, who believe the show promotes violence by adolescent viewers.
Furthermore, several cast सदस्यों made controversial remarks which outraged many viewers.
The format of the show has बदला इससे जल्दी seasons.
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a rule, she is evicted from the show and, if it is early in the season, replaced by a new `` bad girl ''.
There have been nine complete seasons of The Bad Girls Club, with the tenth season currently airing.
The fourth season had the highest ratings in the show 's history, becoming its `` breakthrough season ''.
There have been three spin-offs of The ख़राब लड़कियों क्लबों.
One of them, Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too, where past cast members seek सच्चा प्रेम, रै gained high ratings.
Oxygen has also released a mobile game, comic स्ट्रिप and merchandise to promote the show.
Of the 92 contestants, केरी harvick ( of season one ) was a successful country singer before the show.
Tanisha Thomas ( of season two ) later hosted Oxygen 's OxygenLive !
और the subsequent seasons of Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too.
Thomas, who has been dubbed the `` godmother '' to all contestants, has her own टेलीविज़न वृत्तचित्र हकदार Tanisha Gets Married.
as of Season 8 she 's been the host of the reunion specials.
The Iowa Senate is the upper house of the Iowa General Assembly.
There are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate, representing 50 single-member जिले आरपार the राज्य with populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency,.
Each सीनेट district is composed of two House districts.
The सीनेट meets at the Iowa State Capitol in Des Moines.
Unlike the lower house, the Iowa House of Representatives, Senators serve four-year terms, with half of the Senate लड़खड़ाते for re-election every two years.
वहीँ हैं no term limits for the Senate.
Mechanical मरम्मत
Maintenance, repair, and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance, repair, and overhaul involves fixing any sort of mechanical, plumbing or electrical device should it become out of order or broken ( known as repair, unscheduled or casualty maintenance ).
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the device in working order ( known as scheduled maintenance ) or prevent trouble from arising ( preventive maintenance ).
MRO may be defined as, `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or restoring an item in or to a state in which it can perform its required function.
The actions include the combination of all technical and सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक, managerial, and supervision actions. ''
MRO operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer, i.e. a service is being offered, or whether the product is bought by the reprocessing organisation and sold to कोई ग्राहक wishing to मेक the purchase ( Guadette, 2002 ).
In the former case it may be a backshop operation within a larger संगठन or smaller operation.
The former of these represents a closed loop supply chain and usually has the scope of मेंटेनेंस, मरम्मत or of the product.
The latter of the categorisations is an खोलें लूप सप्लाई chain and is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture.
The main characteristic of the closed loop system is that the demand for a product is matched with the supply of a used product.
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional activities the total population of the product between the customer and the service provider remains constant.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( विलियम आर्थर फिलिप लुई ; born 21 जून 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, और डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और third-eldest पोता of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ ii और प्रिंस फिलिप, ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the संयुक्त किंगडम and obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in चिली, Belize, Tanzania, and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed several times.
Prince William has भी लिया Kiswahili studies at universities in Kenya and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at royal एयर फ़ोर्स कॉलेज Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the royal एयर फ़ोर्स, थी प्रचारित to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in अनुक्रम to become a full-time पायलट साथ the ढूंढें और बचाव फ़ोर्स.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on to raf घाटी on no. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
प्रिंस विलियम married his longtime girlfriend, Catherine Middleton, on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to his wedding, Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge, Earl of Strathearn, and Baron carrickfergus.
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28, 1990 ), better known by his stage name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em, or simply Soulja Boy, is an American rapper, record producer, actor, and entrepreneur.
In September 2007, his single `` crank कि ( Soulja Boy ) `` reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100.
The single was initially self-published on the internet, and it later became a number-one hit in the United States for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007.
On August 17 Way was listed at # 18 on the Forbes list of Hip-Hop नकदी Kings of 2010 earning $ 7 million for that year.
Way रै फिलहाल released three studio albums and one independent album : his debut studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA.
However, his next two albums, iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did not match the commercial success of his debut, the latter only selling 100,000 copies, despite the success of several singles across both albums, such as `` Kiss Me Thru the Phone `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ).
This was mainly due to negotiation problems with Interscope Records which meant a limited amount of records were made available to the पब्लिक.
As of 2011, Way has confirmed he is working on his fourth studio album, entitled USA DRE, which will be released in 2013.
The इलेक्ट्रॉन transport chain in the mitochondrion is the site of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
The NADH and succinate generated in the citric acid cycle are oxidized, providing energy to power ATP synthase.
Photosynthetic इलेक्ट्रॉन transport chain of the thylakoid membrane.
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an electron donor ( such as NADH ) and an electron acceptor ( such as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane.
The resulting electrochemical proton gradient is used to generate chemical energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ).
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for extracting energy from sunlight in photosynthesis and also from redox reactions, such as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ).
In chloroplasts, light drives the conversion of water to oxygen and nadP+ to NADPH with transfer of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes.
In mitochondria, it is the परिवर्तन of ऑक्सीजन to जल, nadh to naD+ और succinate to fumarate कि हैं जरूरी to generate the प्रोटॉन अनुपात.
Electron transport chains are major sites of premature electron leakage to oxygen, generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress.
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip, Ryzolt, Ultracet, ultram in the USA, Ralivia, Zytram XL Durella { CR-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain.
The drug has a wide range of applications, including treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, restless legs syndrome, motor neurone disease and fibromyalgia.
It was launched and marketed as Tramal by the German pharmaceutical company Grünenthal GmbH in 1977.
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist कि भी induces serotonin release and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
Tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol, a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist.
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are distinguished from other more potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors.
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff ( ; born April 29, 1938 ) is an American former stockbroker, investment advisor, financier, and white collar criminal.
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ stock market, and the admitted operator of a Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest वित्तीय fraud in U.S. history.
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC in 1960, and थी its chairman until his arrest on December 11, 2008.
The firm was one of the top market maker businesses on Wall Street, which bypassed `` specialist '' firms by directly executing orders over the counter from retail brokers.
He employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief अनुपालन अधिकारी ; Peter has since been sentenced to 10 years in prison.
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's rules and compliance officer and attorney, and his sons Andrew and Mark ( Mark committed आत्महत्या by फांसी exactly दो सालो बाद his father 's arrest ).
On December 10, 2008, Madoff 's sons told अधिकारियों कि उनके पिता had confessed to them that the asset management unit of his firm was a massive Ponzi scheme, and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie. ''
The following दिन, एफबीआई agents arrested Madoff and charged him with one count of securities fraud.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted investigations into Madoff 's business practices, but did not uncover the massive fraud.
In March 2009, Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies and admitted to turning his wealth management business into a massive Ponzi scheme that defrauded thousands of investors of billions of dollars.
Madoff कहा he began the Ponzi scheme in the early 1990s.
However, federal investigators believe the fraud began as early as the 1970s, and those charged with recovering the missing money believe the investment operation may never have been legitimate.
The amount missing from client accounts, including fabricated gains, was almost $ 65 billion.
The court-appointed trustee estimated actual losses to investors of $ 18 billion.
On June 29, 2009, he was sentenced to 150 years in prison, the maximum allowed.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and अन्य प्रशासनिक support पेशेवर.
In North America, it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full week of अप्रैल ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is celebrated on the first Friday in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board, generally of a public administrative agency, which has powers and procedures resembling those of a court of law or judge, and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and draw conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action.
Such actions are able to remedy a situation or impose legal penalties, and may affect the legal rights, duties or privileges of specific parties.
Monument of Tycho Brahe and Johannes कॅप्लर in Prague
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ), born Tyge Ottesen Brahe, was a डैनिश nobleman known for his accurate and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations.
He was born in Scania, then part of Denmark, now part of modern-day Sweden.
Tycho was well known in his lifetime as an astronomer and alchemist.
In his De nova stella ( on the new star ) of 1573, he refuted the Aristotelian belief in an unchanging celestial realm.
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars, '' ( stellae novae, now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572, lacked the parallax expected in sub-lunar phenomena, and were therefore not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed, but were ऊपर the माहौल and moon.
Using similar measurements he showed that comets were also not atmospheric phenomena, as previously thought, and must pass through the supposedly `` immutable '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, tycho worked to combine what he saw as the geometrical benefits of the Copernican system with the philosophical benefits of the Ptolemaic system into his own model of the universe, the Tychonic system.
Furthermore, he was the last of the major naked eye खगोलशास्त्रियों, working without telescopes for his observations.
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of Hven and the funding to build the Uraniborg, an early research institute, where he built large astronomical instruments and took many careful measurements, and later Stjerneborg, underground, when he discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady.
on the द्वीप ( on जिससे he demonstrated निरंकुश अक्षर और बर्ताव toward the निवासियों ) he संस्थापित manufactories ऐसे as paper-making to provide सामग्री लिये मुद्रण उसके परिणाम.
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597, he was invited by the Bohemian king and Holy Roman emperor Rudolph II to Prague, where he became the official imperial astronomer.
He built the new observatory at benátky nad Jizerou.
Here, from 1600 until his death in 1601, he was assisted by Johannes Kepler who later used Tycho 's astronomical data to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion.
Guro District ( guro-gu ) is a district of Seoul, South Korea, which was separated from Yeongdeungpo District on April 1, 1980.
Located in the southwestern part of the city, where besides yangcheon ज़िला और geumcheon ज़िला guro ज़िला has an important position as a transport link which contains railroads, land routes from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country.
The gyeongbu and Gyeongin railway lines connect Seoul to Busan and Incheon.
In addition, Seoul Metropolitan सबवे लाइनों 1, 2, और 7, and major highways intersect in Guro District.
The name Guro originates from the legend that nine ( ) old men ( Korean : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district.
A digital industrial complex is located in Guro District.
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex, which played a leading industrial role mainly with textile निर्माण, dressmaking और other labour-intensive industries in 1967, has been rapidly changed into an IT industrial complex.
This complex निभाई a pivotal role in the economic growth of the South Korea 's development era, referred to as the `` Miracle on the Han River ``, and also contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s.
Twenty-one percent of the total area of Guro District is a restricted zone to be used as a greenbelt with the only arboretum in Seoul.
The zone is changing into a lively district as large labour-intensive कारखानों हैं moving from the area and the council is developing what it terms its four zones.
An `` e-government `` system based on this hosted the international e-participation forum on February 7–9, 2007, with the भागीदारी of अधिक than thirty-seven countries.
The forum was launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André santini ( issy-les-moulineaux, फ़्रांस ), केविन foy ( चैपल हिल, US ), Apirak Kosayothin ( Bangkok, Thailand ), Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas ( Colombo, Sri Lanka ), and world experts such as Dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford, UK ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere, Finland ) participated in the forum.
The Guro Declaration, adopted during the forum, aims to set up a portal site for e-government development and to establish a concrete project in order to bridge the digital divide among the world 's cities.
This practice has been recognised for providing a new important step in the development of e-democracy.
The e-participation forum was a key factor for Guro to play the leading role in bridging the digital divide among cities, to provide I.T. enterprises located in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to launch into the international market, to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation forum on February 7–9, 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in transcription from Cantonese ; Mandarin : húndùn ) is a type of dumpling commonly found in a number of चाइनीज cuisines.
Many people were involved in the invention of रेडियो as we now know it.
Several possible methods of wireless communication were considered, including inductive and capacitive induction and transmission through the ground, however the method used for radio today exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves.
After early speculation on the subject, experimental work on the connection between electricity and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans ईसाई ओर्स्टेड और जारी साथ the कार्य of André-Marie Ampère, Joseph Henry, and Michael Faraday.
These investigations culminated in the complete theory of electromagnetism developed by James Clerk Maxwell.
This सिद्धान्त वर्णित the theoretical basis of the propagation of electromagnetic waves.
बाद मैक्सवेल 's सिद्धान्त was published many people experimented with wireless communication, some intentionally using Maxwell 's theory some not.
It is considered likely that the first intentional transmission of a signal by means of electromagnetic waves was performed by David Edward Hughes around 1880, although this was considered to be induction at the time.
The first systematic and unequivocal transmission of EM waves was performed by Heinrich Rudolf Hertz and described in papers published in 1887 and 1890.
Hertz famously considered these results as being of little practical value.
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components and theory involved with the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves.
अन्य, notably Guglielmo Marconi, were concerned with practical improvements and the commercial application of radio to wireless telegraphy.
Later on Reginald A. Fessenden became the first to send an audio signal by means of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक waves.
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a deficiency of vitamin C, which is required for the synthesis of collagen in humans.
The chemical name for vitamin C, ascorbic acid, is derived from the Latin name of scurvy, scorbutus, which also provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ).
Scurvy often presents itself initially as symptoms of malaise and lethargy, followed by गठन of spots on the skin, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes.
Spots are most abundant on the thighs and legs, and a person with the ailment looks पाले, feels depressed, and is partially immobilized.
As scurvy advances, there can be open, suppurating wounds, loss of teeth, jaundice, fever, neuropathy and death.
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors, pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable fruits and vegetables could be stored ( subsisting instead only on cured and salted meats and dried grains ) and by soldiers similarly deprived of these foods for extended periods.
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c. 380 BC ), and herbal cures for scurvy have महरूम ज्ञात in many native cultures since prehistory.
Scurvy was one of the limiting factors of marine travel, often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew on long-distance voyages.
This became a significant issue in Europe from the beginning of the modern era in the Age of Discovery in the 15th century, continuing to play a significant role through World War I in the 20th century.
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional कमियां, जबतक the अलगाव of विटामिन c and direct evidence of its link to scurvy in 1932, numerous theories and treatments were proposed, often on little or no experimental data.
इस असंगति is attributed to the कमी of विटामिन c as a पृथक अवधारणा, an अक्षमता to reliably कड़ी अलग भोजन ( notably उपस्थित in भैस citrus, watercress, और अंग मांस ) to स्कर्वी.
An additional concept required to understand scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C by exposure to air and copper and other transition metal salts such as those of iron, thus changing the links of भोजन to स्कर्वी over समय.
उपचार by fresh food, particularly citrus fruit, was periodically implemented, as it had been since antiquity.
However until the 1930s, treatment was inconsistent, with many ineffective treatments used into the 20th सदी.
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy, James Lind who first proved it could be treated with citrus fruit in experiments he described in his 1753 book, A Treatise of the Scurvy, though his advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades.
In infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as Barlow 's disease, named after Sir Thomas Barlow, a British physician who described it.
However, Barlow 's disease may also refer to mitral valve prolapse.
Other eponyms for scurvy include Moeller 's disease और cheadle 's disease.
Scurvy does not occur in most animals because they can synthesize their own vitamin C.
However, humans and other higher primates ( the simians - monkeys and apes - and tarsiers ), guinea pigs, most or all bats, and some species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet.
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues, with particularly high concentrations occurring in citrus fruits ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), tomatoes, potatoes, cabbages, and green peppers.
आयरन is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक fe ( इससे ) और परमाणु क्रमांक 26.
It is a metal in the first परिवर्तन श्रेणी.
It is the most common element ( by mass ) forming the ग्रह धरती as a पूरे, forming much of Earth 's outer and inner core.
It is the fourth most common element in the धरती 's crust.
Iron 's very common presence in rocky planets like Earth is due to its abundant production as a result of fusion in high-mass stars, where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common isotope of iron ) is the last nuclear fusion प्रतिक्रिया कि is exothermic.
This causes radioactive nickel to become the last element to be produced before collapse of a supernova leads to the विस्फोटक कार्यक्रम कि scatter this precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space.
Like other group 8 elements, iron exists in a wide range of oxidation states, −2 to +6, although +2 and +3 are the most common.
Elemental आयरन occurs in meteoroids और अन्य कम ऑक्सीजन environments, लकिन is प्रतिक्रिया to ऑक्सीजन और जल.
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, but oxidize in normal air to give hydrated iron आक्साइड, commonly known as rust.
Unlike अनेक अन्य धातुओं जिससे रूप passivating ऑक्साइड layers, iron oxides occupy more volume than iron metal, and thus iron oxides flake off and expose fresh surfaces for corrosion.
Iron metal has been used since ancient times, though copper alloys, which have lower melting temperatures, were used first in history.
Pure iron is soft ( softer than aluminium ), but is unobtainable by smelting.
The material is significantly hardened and strengthened by impurities from the smelting process, such as carbon.
A certain proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % and 2.1 % ) produces steel, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron.
Crude iron metal is produced in blast furnaces, जहाँ अयस्क is घटाया by कोक to pig iron, which has a high carbon content.
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content to the correct proportion to make steel.
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) हैं by दूर the सबसे आम धातुओं in industrial use, due to their great range of desirable properties and the abundance of iron.
Iron chemical compounds, which include ferrous and ferric compounds, have many uses.
Iron oxide mixed with aluminium powder can be ignited to create a thermite reaction, used in welding and purifying ores.
it forms binary compounds with the halogens and the chalcogens.
Among its organometallic compounds is ferrocene, the first सैंडविच यौगिक खोजा.
Iron plays an important role in biology, forming complexes with molecular ऑक्सीजन in हीमोग्लोबिन और myoglobin ; ये two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates.
Iron is also the metal used at the active site of many important redox एंजाइमों dealing with cellular respiration and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals.
the ब्लू क्रॉस ब्लू शील्ड संघ ( bcbsa ) is a संघ of 38 पृथक स्वास्थ्य बीमे संगठन और कंपनियाँ in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Combined, they directly or indirectly provide स्वास्थ्य बीमे to over 99 million Americans.
The history of Blue Cross dates back to 1929, while the history of Blue Shield dates to 1939.
The Blue Cross Association dates back to 1960, while its Blue Shield बंटवारा थी निर्मित in 1948.
The two organizations merged in 1982, forming the current association.
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American, Australian, New Zealand, Canadian, Singaporean, Hong Kong, South African and Jamaican English ; as a crisp in British English and Hiberno-English, and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English ) is a thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy.
Potato chips हैं commonly served as an appetizer, side dish, or snack.
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional varieties are manufactured using various flavorings and ingredients including seasonings, herbs, spices, cheeses, and artificial additives.
`` Crisps '', however, may also refer to many different types of savory snack products sold in the United Kingdom and Ireland, some made from potato, but may also be made from maize, tapioca or अन्य cereals.
An example of these kinds of savory snacks is Monster Munch.
Potato chips are a predominant part of the स्नैक खाना market in English-speaking countries and numerous other Western nations.
The global potato chip market उत्पन्न total revenues of US $ 16.4 billion in 2005.
This accounted for 35.5 % of the total savory snacks market in कि साल ( us $ 46.1 billion ).
Henry Clay, Sr. ( April 12, 1777 – June 29, 1852 ) was a lawyer, politician and skilled orator who represented Kentucky in both the Senate and in the House of Representatives.
He served three different terms as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives and was also Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829.
He lost his campaigns for president in 1824, 1832 and 1844.
Clay was a dominant फिगर in both the First and Second Party systems.
As a leading war hawk in 1812, he favored war with Britain and played a significant role in leading the nation to war in the War of 1812.
In 1824 he ran for president and lost, but threw his electoral votes to John Quincy Adams, who made him secretary of state as the jacksonians denounced कया वे माना a `` corrupt bargain. ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the candidate of the whig पार्टी, which he founded and usually dominated.
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System, fighting for an increase in tariffs to foster industry in the United States, the उपयोग of federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure, and a strong national bank.
He opposed the annexation of Texas, fearing it would इंजेक्ट the slavery issue into politics.
Clay also opposed the Mexican-American War and the `` Manifest Destiny `` policy of Democrats, which cost him votes in the close 1844 election.
Dubbed the `` Great pacificator, '' मिट्टी brokered important compromises during the Nullification Crisis and on the slavery issue.
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio, '' along with his colleagues Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun, he was instrumental in formulating the Missouri Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850.
He was viewed as the primary representative of Western interests in this group, and was given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star. ''
A plantation मालिक, मिट्टी held slaves during his lifetime but freed them in his Will.
Abraham Lincoln, the Whig leader in Illinois, was a great admirer of Clay, saying he थी `` my आदर्श of a great man. ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly supported Clay 's economic programs.
In 1957, a Senate Committee selected Clay as one of the five greatest U.S. Senators, along with Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, Robert La Follette, and Robert Taft.
BJ 's Wholesale Club, Inc., commonly referred to simply as BJ 's, is a membership-only warehouse club chain operating on the United States East Coast, as well as in the state of Ohio.
the company is ranked # 232 on Fortune magazine 's 2010 listing of America 's 500 largest public corporations.
The Wizard of Oz, known during his reign as The Great and शक्तिशाली Oz, is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, a fictional character in the Land of Oz, created by American author L. Frank Baum.
The character was further popularized by the classic 1939 movie, wherein his full name is not mentioned.
Kristinia Jamie DeBarge ( ; born March 8, 1990 ) is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, dancer and actress.
She first appeared on national television in 2003 as a contestant on the American Idol spin-off, American Juniors.
In 2009, DeBarge signed a contract with the द्वीप रिकॉर्ड विभाग Sodapop, releasing her debut album Exposed in July of the same year.
The first single, `` Goodbye ``, reached the top 20 in the US and Canada.
The lead single ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) from her बेनाम sophomore album was released on September 27, 2012.
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa in NCAA Division I FBS college football.
The team is coached by Norm Chow.
it थी भाग of the पश्चिमी एथलेटिक सम्मेलन जबतक जुलाई 2012, जब the टोली joined the पहाड़ वेस्ट सम्मेलन.
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-AQ team to play in a BCS bowl game ; losing to Georgia 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1, 2008 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born Marvin Pentz Gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter और संगीतकार.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going on और let 's Get It On and became among the first artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres ऐसे as quiet storm and neo-soul.
Following a काल in यूरोपीय under a tax exile in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has been posthumously honored by many संस्थानों, सहित the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
स्थान of chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र
The abandoned city of Pripyat with chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ), which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere, which spread over much of the western USSR and Europe.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been विवादित, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for.
Mrs. Claus says goodbye to her husband as he sets off on his यात्रा in इस 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus, the क्रिसमस gift-bringer in North American and European Christmas tradition.
She is known for making cookies with the elves and preparing toys with her husband Santa Claus.
Her first name is a mystery, though she has been referred to as Mary, Jessica, Layla, annette, हीदी, or Martha.
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is an खोलें सोर्स enumerating tool for Microsoft Windows originally created by Merijn Bellekom, and later sold to Trend Micro.
The कार्यक्रम is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods, rather than relying on a database of known spyware.
it scans a user 's computer quickly, and displays browser hijacking locations, showing what entries are there.
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser hijacking, as uninformed use of its removal facilities can cause significant software damage to a computer.
HijackThis does not remove or detect spyware ; it lists most common locations where browser hijacking activity can occur.
Browser hijacking can cause malware to be installed on a computer.
On February 16, 2012, Trend Micro released the HijackThis source code as open source and it is now available on the sourceforge site.
Saddle Creek Records is an American record label आधारित in Omaha, Nebraska.
प्रारंभ as a कॉलेज क्लास प्रोजेक्ट on उद्यमिता, the लेबल थी संस्थापित by माइक mogis और जस्टिन oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records ).
Mogis soon turned over his role in the company to Robb Nansel.
The label is नामित बाद काठी क्रीक सड़क, a गली कि कटौती through the ईस्ट पक्ष of midtown ओमाहा, और the beginnings of a झाँकी जिनकी सदस्यों शामिल conor oberst ( तब a सोलो कलाकार, फिलहाल of उज्जवल आँखें, conor oberst और the रहस्यवादी घाटी बैंड, desaparecidos और राक्षस of लोक ), टिम kasher ( तब of slowdown वर्जिनिया, फिलहाल of कर्सिव और the शुभ जीवन ), और अन्य.
Collectively, they were known unofficially as the `` Creekers ''.
Saddle Creek first appeared in print on a show flyer, offering to `` Spend an evening with Saddle Creek '' ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD. )
Saddle Creek became an incorporated entity as a result of a class project on entrepreneurship.
Distribution is handled by the Alternative वितरण Alliance, which is under the Warner Music Group umbrella.
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship label of a style of music called `` The Omaha ध्वनि ``, characterized by a slight country twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, हालांकि, with the rise of more electronic sounds such as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles.
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate member bands is somewhat explained by their history ; a number of the original members of the label attended grade school together.
A `` sister label '', of sorts, to Saddle Creek is Team प्रेम, started by Conor Oberst in 2004.
The label opened arms to their first bands not based in Omaha in 2001 with releases by Now It 's Overhead and Sorry About Dresden.
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed, including Los Angeles 's rilo kiley, eric bachmann ( formerly leader of Archers of Loaf and Crooked Fingers from North Carolina ), Georgie James ( Washington D.C. ), Two Gallants ( San Francisco ), and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ).
In 2005, Spend an संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक, a documentary detailing the first ten years of the record label 's history, was released.
The DVD features extensive interviews with the Saddle Creek bands, archival footage, and rare live performances.
on जून 8, 2007, the लेबल खोली उनके अपना म्यूज़िक स्थान नामित slowdown ( बाद the समूह slowdown वर्जिनिया ), स्तिथ in शहर ओमाहा, Nebraska.
The following is a list of episodes for the television show Full हाउस.
In total, there were 192 एपीसोड फिल्माया लिये the show over the course of its eight seasons, from 1987 to 1995.
Full House is a situation comedy which chronicles a widowed father 's struggles of raising his three young daughters and the lives that वे have touched.
The patriarch of the family, Danny ( Bob Saget ), invites his brother-in-law Jesse ( जॉन stamos ) और उसके best friend Joey ( Dave Coulier ), to help raise his children ( Candace Cameron, Jodie Sweetin, and Mary Kate/Ashley Olsen ), after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver.
After episodes 88 and 89, Jesse marries Becky ( Lori loughlin ), and they move into the attic.
Then, बाद एपीसोड 104 और 105, बेकी और जेसी have जुड़वा लड़कों नामित nicky और एलेक्स ( डेनियल और केविन renteria/blake और डिलन tuomy-wilhoit ).
The series ends with episode 192, `` मिशेल यात्राएँ again भाग 2 '', when Michelle loses her memory and the family tries to restore it.
Notice of Stamp अधिनियम of 1765 in Newspaper
American newspapers reacted to the Stamp Act with anger and predictions of the demise of journalism.
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 George III, c. 12 ) imposed a direct tax by the British Parliament specifically on the colonies of British America, and it required that many printed materials in the colonies be produced on stamped paper produced in London, carrying an embossed revenue stamp.
These printed materials were legal documents, magazines, newspapers and many other प्रकार of पेपर used throughout the colonies.
Like previous taxes, the stamp tax had to be paid in valid British currency, not in colonial paper money.
The purpose of the tax was to help pay for troops stationed in North America after the British victory in the Seven Years ' War.
The British government felt that the colonies were the primary beneficiaries of this military presence, and should pay at least a portion of the expense.
The Stamp Act met great resistance in the colonies.
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament, and therefore had no influence over what taxes were raised, how they were levied, or how they would be spent.
Many colonists माना it a violation of their rights as Englishmen to be taxed without their consent —consent that only the colonial legislatures could grant.
औपनिवेशिक सभाओं भेजा याचिकाएं और विरोध.
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City, reflecting the पहला significant joint colonial response to any British measure, also petitioned Parliament and the King.
Local protest groups, led by औपनिवेशिक merchants and landowners, established connections through correspondence that created a loose coalition that extended from New England to Georgia.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the Sons of Liberty often turned violent और destructive as the masses became involved.
Very soon all stamp tax distributors were intimidated into resigning their commissions, and the tax was never effectively collected.
विपक्ष to the स्टैम्प अधिनियम थी नहीं सीमित to the colonies.
British merchants and manufacturers, whose exports to the colonies यहूद threatened by colonial economic problems exacerbated by the tax, also pressured Parliament.
The Act was repealed on March 18, 1766 as a matter of expedience, but Parliament affirmed its power to legislate for the colonies “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act.
There followed a series of new taxes and regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
The episode played a major role in defining the grievances and enabling the organized colonial resistance that led to the American Revolution in 1775.
PT-105 underway.
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed fast attack craft used by the United States Navy in World War II to attack larger surface ships.
`` pt '' is the us हल वर्गीकरण प्रतीक लिये `` पैट्रोल torpedo ''.
The PT boat squadrons were nicknamed `` the मच्छर fleet ''.
the जापानी पुकारा उन्हें `` शैतान नौकाएँ ''.
The असली pre– World War I torpedo boats were designed with `` displacement '' hulls.
They displaced up to 300 tons and the शीर्ष speed was.
The PT boats used in World War II were built using the planing -type हल रूप विकसित लिये racing boats.
They were much smaller ( 30–75 tons ) and faster ( 35–40 knots ).
Both प्रकार यहूद designed to strike at larger warships with torpedoes, using relatively high speed to get close, and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire.
They were much less expensive than विशाल warships.
PT boats were much faster, छोटी, and cheaper than conventional ( displacement hull ) vessels.
During World War II, American PT boats engaged enemy destroyers and numerous other surface craft, ranging इससे छोटी boats to large supply ships.
PT boats also operated as gunboats against enemy small craft, such as armored barges used by the Japanese forces for inter-island transport.
शुभ शुक्रवार is a धार्मिक अवकाश observed primarily by ईसाइयों commemorating the crucifixion of यीशु मसीह और उसके मौत at कलवारी.
The holiday is observed during Holy Week as part of the Paschal Triduum on the Friday preceding Easter Sunday, and may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover.
It is also known as Holy Friday, Great Friday, Black Friday, or Easter Friday, though the latter properly refers to the Friday in Easter week.
आधारित on the विवरण of the canonical gospels, the crucifixion of यीशु थी सबसे संभावित to have महरूम on a शुक्रवार ( the दिन पहले the sabbath ) ( ).
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33, by two different groups, and originally as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the Biblical and Julian calendars and the crescent of the moon.
A third method, using a completely different खगोलीय दृष्टिकोण आधारित on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and eclipse model ( consistent with Apostle Peter 's reference to a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ), points to Friday, 3 April AD 33.
The Great Basin is the largest area of endorheic watersheds in North America.
It is noted for both its arid conditions and its Basin and range topography that varies from the North American low point at Badwater Basin to the highest point of the contiguous United States, less than away at the summit of Mount Whitney.
The region spans several physiographic divisions, biomes / ecoregions, and deserts.
रास्टर may refer to:
Raster ग्राफिक्स, आलेखीय techniques using arrays of pixel values
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स एडिटर, a कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम
Raster scan, the pattern of image readout, हस्तांतरण, storage, and reconstruction in television and computer images
Rasterisation, or rasterization, conversion of a vector image to a raster image
Raster image processor, or RIP, a component of a printing प्रणाली कि performs rasterisation
Raster interrupt, a computer इन्टरनेट signal
Raster to vector, an चित्र conversion process
Raster bar, an effect used in computer demos
Raster-Noton, a रिकार्ड label
Rastrum, a यंत्र used in medieval music manuscripts to draw staff lines
Raster दस्तावेज़ Object, a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and later turned king in the epic poem named after him, one of the oldest surviving pieces of literature in the English language.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States नवल आधार at पर्ल हार्बर, हवाई, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters, bombers and torpedo planes in two waves, launched from six aircraft वाहक.
All आठ u.S. नेवी battleships were damaged, with four being sunk.
Two of these were later raised, and with the remaining four repaired, six battleships returned to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or damaged तीन cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were मारे और 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the submarine piers and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked.
Japanese losses were लाइट : 29 वायुयान and five midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One Japanese sailor was captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the American entry into World War II in दोनो the प्रशांत and European theaters.
The following day ( December 8 ), the United States declared war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, which had been strong, disappeared.
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance.
subsequent परिचालन by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the U.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents for unannounced सैन्य कार्रवाई by Japan.
However, the lack of any formal warning, विशेषकर जबकि negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south संयुक्त States highway that runs for in the Mountain - Northern Plains states of the United States.
The southern terminus of the route is at the United states-mexico किनारा in El Paso, Texas, connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 45.
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada border in Fortuna, North Dakota, where the route continues north as Saskatchewan राजमार्ग 35.
In both the United States and Saskatchewan, Canada the route is known as the CanAm Highway.
Sections of US 85 are माना भाग of the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway.
The United States presidential election of 1968 थी the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, पूर्व Vice-President Richard Nixon, won the election over the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore law and order to the nation 's cities, torn by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide, the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election प्रदर्शित the strongest third party effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end स्कूल segregation, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last election in which New York had the most votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 जनसांख्यिकी, California gained the most electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest election where a अध्यक्षीय ticket won without carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities, processor affinity, forcibly terminate processes, और shut bas, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
Windows Task Manager was introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
पिछला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग, जिससे था दूर कम सुविधाएँ.
The task list was capable of लिस्टिंग currently running processes and killing them, or creating a new process.
in खिड़कियाँ xp तभी, a shutdown मेनू is also present that allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn off, Restart, Log Off and Switch User.
पहले versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) had a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running.
इस संचिका थी चलाया by कार्यशील the taskman.exe संचिका इससे the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका.
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the modern Japanese writing system along with hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), Hindu-Arabic numerals, and the occasional use of the Latin alphabet.
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the Chinese characters literally means `` Han characters '' and is written using the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ).
John R Williams ( May 4, 1782 – October 20, 1854 ) was an American soldier, merchant, and politician who is most well known for serving as the first mayor of Detroit, Michigan.
In total, he served as Detroit 's mayor for पाँच other terms.
He also was a brigadier सामान्य in the United States Army during the Black Hawk War.
A simple dry magnetic पोर्टेबल compass.
A smartphone that can be used as a compass because of the magnetometer inside.
An iphone कि can be प्रयुक्त as a geological कम्पास क्युकी of the 3-axis teslameter और 3-axis accelerometer अंदर it
A military compass कि was used during World War I.
A compass is a navigational instrument that shows directions in a frame of reference that is stationary relative to the surface of the earth.
The frame of reference defines the four cardinal directions ( or points ) – north, south, east, and west.
Intermediate directions are also पारिभाषित.
Usually, a diagram called a compass rose, which shows the directions ( with their names usually abbreviated to initials ), is marked on the compass.
When the compass is in use, the rose is aligned with the real directions in the frame of reference, so, for example, the `` N '' mark on the rose वाकई points to the north.
Frequently, in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it, angle markings in डिग्री हैं दिखाया on the compass.
North corresponds to zero degrees, and the angles increase clockwise, so east is 90 degrees, south is 180, and west is 270.
These numbers allow the compass to show azimuths or बियरिंग, which are commonly stated in this notation.
The magnetic compass was first invented as a device for divination as early as the Chinese Han Dynasty ( चूंकि परिचय 206 BC ).
The compass थी प्रयुक्त in सोंग राजवंश China by the military for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, and was used for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117.
The use of a compass is अंकित in Western Europe between 1187 and 1202, and in Persia in 1232.
The dry compass was invented in Europe around 1300.
This was supplanted in the early 20th century by the liquid-filled magnetic compass.
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire ( Quechua : Tawantinsuyu ) थी the largest empire in pre-Columbian America.
The administrative, political and military बीच of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru.
The Inca civilization arose from the highlands of Peru sometime in the early 13th century.
From 1438 to 1533, the Incas used a variety of methods, from conquest to peaceful assimilation, to incorporate a large portion of western South America, centered on the Andean mountain ranges, सहित, besides पेरू, विशाल parts of modern Ecuador, western and south central Bolivia, northwest Argentina, north and central Chile, and southern Colombia into a state comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia.
The official language of the empire was Quechua, although hundreds of local भाषाएं and dialects of Quechua were spoken.
The Inca referred to their empire as Tawantinsuyu which can be translated as The Four Regions or The चार संयुक्त Provinces.
There were many local forms of worship, most of them concerning local sacred `` Huacas ``, but the Inca नेतृत्व प्रोत्साहित the worship of Inti —the sun god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as that of Pachamama.
The Incas माना उनके King, the Sapa Inca, to be the `` child of the sun. ''
The kidneys are organs that serve several essential regulatory roles in most animals, including vertebrates and some invertebrates.
They are essential in the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes, maintenance of acid–base संतुलन, and regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance ).
They serve the body as a natural filter of the blood, and remove wastes which are diverted to the urinary bladder.
In producing urine, the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea and ammonium, and they are also responsible for the reabsorption of जल, glucose, and amino acids.
The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol, erythropoietin, and the enzyme renin.
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum, the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal arteries, and drain into the paired renal veins.
Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter, itself a paired structure कि empties into the urinary bladder.
Renal physiology is the study of kidney function, while nephrology is the medical specialty concerned with kidney diseases.
Diseases of the kidney are diverse, but individuals with kidney disease frequently display characteristic clinical features.
Common clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic and nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, acute kidney injury, दीर्घकालिक गुर्दा बीमारी, urinary tract infection, nephrolithiasis, and urinary tract obstruction.
Various cancers of the kidney exist ; the most common adult renal कर्कट is renal cell carcinoma.
Cancers, cysts, और some other renal conditions can be managed with removal of the kidney, or nephrectomy.
When renal function, measured by glomerular filtration rate, is persistently poor, dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options.
Although they are not severely harmful, kidney stones can be painful and a nuisance.
The removal of kidney stones involves अल्ट्रासाउंड treatment to break up the stones into smaller pieces, which are then passed through the urinary tract.
One आम लक्षण of kidney stones is a sharp pain in the medial/lateral segments of the lower back.
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately held बीमे brokerage firm, providing insurance, risk management and employee benefits solutions.
In addition to its Kansas City, Missouri headquarters, Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries.
Lockton is currently home to more than 4,450 Associates worldwide.
The company was founded by Jack Lockton in 1966 and has since become the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm.
lockton serves a चौड़ी सरणी of उद्योग साथ सेवाएं कि शामिल रिस्क प्रबन्धन, casualty, surety, पेशेवर indemnity और अधिक.
For 46 years, Lockton posted extraordinary organic growth, with global revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal 2012.
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s team works closely with insurance carriers and administrators to create comprehensive and integrated लाभ रणनीति लिये clients.
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance, कार्यपालिका benefits, health and welfare, health risk solutions, retirement and more.
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity, an affiliate of Lockton Companies, meets the insurance needs of affinity groups, franchises, professional organizations, and associations of all sizes.
Lockton Affinity offers a variety of insurance product options and programs.
Products include : General Liability, Professional Liability, Property, Workers Compensation, Directors & Officers Liability, Commercial Auto, Specialty कवरेज, Excess, Health Plans and more.
lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय : lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय operates कार्यालयों in the uk और आयरलैंड, as खूब as कार्यालयों throughout एशिया और लैटिन अमेरिका.
In Europe, Lockton International is a partner in eos RISQ, Europe’s leading insurance broking and risk management consultancy.
EOS RISQ is an equity-based European partnership of major independent insurance brokers with over 3,500 employees based in more than 30 countries in Europe.
Lockton International provides specialized solutions for personal lines, SME’s and major multi-national clients.
White चॉकलेट is a chocolate derivative.
It commonly consists of cocoa butter, sugar, milk solids and salt, and is characterized by a pale yellow or ivory appearance.
The melting point of cocoa butter, its primary cocoa bean component, is high enough to keep white chocolate solid at room temperature.
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship ( born March 14, 1950 ) was Chairman and CEO of Massey Energy Co., the sixth largest coal company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States.
He served in those भूमिकाएँ इससे November 30, 2000, until December 31, 2010.
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the Republican party and participant in local और राज्य राजनीती, especially in his home state of West Virginia.
He has frequently spoken out publicly about politics, the environment, unions, and coal production.
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings दिखाएँ blankenship was paid $ 17.8 million in 2009, the highest in the coal industry.
His 2009 pay represents a $ 6.8 million उठाएँ over 2008 and almost double his compensation package in 2007.
blankenship भी प्राप्त a deferred compensation package valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009.
On December 3, 2010, Blankenship announced that he was retiring as CEO at the end of the year, and would be succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips Jr.
धनुष wow is एक of the transcriptions प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेज़ी to describe a श्वान 's bark.
Bow Wow may also refer to:
धनुष wow ( बैंड ), a जापानी मुश्किल rock/heavy मेटल बैंड
Bow Wow ( rapper ), an American rapper and कर्ता
Bow Wow Sauce, a sauce developed in the Cotswolds region of England
धनुष Wow Wow, a UK new wave band
`` Bow Wow '', a song by The Fiery Furnaces from their 2003 album Gallowsbird 's छाल
`` Bow wow Blues ( My Mama Treat Me like a Dog ) '', a song composed in the 1920s by Cliff Friend & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to neglect, literally `` not to pick up something '' ) is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances.
The area of tort law known as negligence involves harm caused by carelessness, not जानबूझकर harm.
According to jay M. Feinman of the Rutgers University School of Law ;
`` The core idea of negligence is that people should exercise reasonable care when they act by taking account of the potential harm that they might foreseeably cause harm to other people. ''
`` those who go personally or bring property where they know that they or it may come into collision with the persons or property of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use उचित परवाह and skill to avoid such a collision. ''
Fletcher v Rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 Ex 265 )
Through civil वाद, if an घायल व्यक्ति proves कि another व्यक्ति acted negligently to कारण उनके चोट, वे can रिकवर क्षतिपूर्ति to compensate लिये उनके नुक़सान.
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured plaintiff to compensation for harm to their body, property, mental well-being, financial status, or intimate relationships.
However, because negligence cases are very fact-specific, this general definition does not fully explain the concept of when the law will require one person to compensate another for losses caused by आकस्मिक चोट.
further, the विधि of लापरवाही at आम विधि is तभी एक पहलू of the विधि of देयता.
Although resulting damages must be proven in order to recover compensation in a negligence action, the nature and extent of those damages are not the primary focus of negligence cases.
A melanocytic nevus ( also known as `` nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type of lesion that contains nevus cells ( a type of melanocyte ).
Some sources equate the term mole with `` melanocytic nevus ''.
Other sources reserve the पद `` mole '' लिये अन्य purposes.
The majority of moles appear during the first two decades of a person’s life, जबकि परिचय one in every 100 babies is born with moles.
Acquired moles are a form of benign neoplasm, while congenital moles, or जन्मजात nevi, are considered a minor malformation or hamartoma and may be at a higher risk for melanoma.
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a pigmented विकास on the skin, formed mostly of a type of cell known as a melanocyte.
The high विशेषज्ञता of the body’s pigmenting agent, melanin, is responsible for their dark color.
Moles are a member of the family of skin lesions known as nevi.
The comprehensive metabolic panel, or chemical screen, ( CMP ; CPT code 80053 ) is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool.
The CMP provides a rough check of kidney function, liver function, and electrolyte and fluid balance, but it is दूर इससे perfect.
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives and thus the CBC may need to be repeated for a patient ( or replaced with a more specific test ).
The CMP is an विस्तारित संस्करण of the मौलिक metabolic फलक ( bmp ), जिससे करता नहीं शामिल जिगर परीक्षण.
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of a routine physical examination, or may be used to monitor a patient with a chronic disease, such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension.
Previous names for the panel of tests have been Chem 12, Chemistry panel, रसायन screen, SMA 12, SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ).
The tests are performed on machines based on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957.
Natural gas extraction by देशों in cubic meters per year.
Natural gas is a naturally occurring हाइड्रोकार्बन गैस mixture consisting primarily of methane, but commonly including varying amounts of other hydrocarbons, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and hydrogen sulfide.
Natural gas is an energy source often used for heating, cooking, and electricity generation.
It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as a chemical feedstock in the manufacture of plastics and other commercially महत्वपूर्ण सशुल्क chemicals.
Natural gas is found in deep underground natural rock formations or associated with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in कोयले beds and as methane clathrates.
Petroleum is also another resource found in निकटता to and with natural gas.
Most प्राकृतिक गैस थी निर्मित over समय by दो mechanisms : biogenic और thermogenic.
Biogenic gas is निर्मित by methanogenic organisms in marshes, bogs, landfills, and shallow sediments.
deeper in the धरती, at वृहद तापमान और दबाव, thermogenic गैस is निर्मित इससे दफ्न सशुल्क सामग्री.
Before natural gas can be used as a fuel, it must undergo processing to remove impurities, including water, to meet the specifications of marketable natural gas.
The by-products of processing include ethane, propane, butanes, pentanes, and higher molecular weight hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide ( which may be परिवर्तित into pure sulfur ), carbon dioxide, water vapor, and sometimes helium and nitrogen.
Natural gas is often informally referred to simply as gas, especially when compared to other energy sources such as oil or coal.
This page is about the कल्पना Movers band.
For information about the TV show अभिनीत the band, see Imagination Movers ( TV series ).
Imagination Movers is a band formed in New Orleans, Louisiana, in 2003.
The lineup includes Rich Collins, Scott Durbin, Dave Poche, and Scott `` Smitty '' Smith.
Members of the समूह were longtime friends and neighbors.
The group started as a television/music concept which was pitched to local PBS affiliates in New Orleans.
WLAE-TV was the first to take an interest in the group and later introduced them to Beth Courtney, the President & Chief Executive Officer at Louisiana Public Broadcasting.
Soon after, LPB began airing one-minute वीडियो produced by the Imagination Movers themselves.
The Movers built a sizable regional following by setting शैक्षणिक songs for kids to melodies and rhythms that adults appreciate as well.
They sold more than 100,000 copies of their self-produced CDs and DVDs.
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas, '' `` Calling All Movers, '' and `` Eight Feet '' along with their grass roots DVD `` Stir It Up '' have, संयुक्त, won fourteen national awards, from such groups as the National Association of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice.
In early 2005, Disney took notice, and initiated negotiations to add the Movers to the company 's roster.
These were interrupted in August when the flood protection designed and built by the Army corps of Engineers to protect New Orleans failed.
The resulting floodwater claimed the band 's office, as well as the homes of Collins, Durbin and Poche – but the deal was signed in the spring of 2006.
In 2008, Walt Disney Records introduced the Imagination Movers ' music to the nation with the release of the मूवर्स ' पहला nationally-released CD, `` Juice Box Heroes. ''
In September 2008, a 30-minute show featuring the group began airing on the Disney Channel 's preschool प्रोग्रामिंग ब्लाक ज्ञात as playhouse डिज़्नी, और currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement, Disney Junior.
the मूवर्स write and perform all the songs on their show.
Moreover, the Imagination Movers have received critical kudos for उनके live concert performances.
In October 2009, the Imagination Movers started the `` Live from the Idea Warehouse Concert Tour 2009 ''.
traveling इससे mid-october to mid-december 2009 उनके सजीव प्रदर्शन शामिल लोट of उनके पसंदीदा गीतों और नाचना, as खूब as वीडियो दिखावे of गोदाम चूहा.
Beginning in early-February 2011 and wrapping up in late May 2011, the Imagination Movers presented their `` In a Big Warehouse Concert Tour, '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ शहरों across North America.
इससे कूच to अक्तूबर 2012, the कल्पना मूवर्स toured उत्तर अमेरिका on उनके post-disney `` rock-o-matic '' दौरे.
The show maintained several elements of the original TV concept, such as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' and several sets from their older catalogue ; however, with the departure of Wendy Calio back to her native Hawaii, the character `` Nina '', along with her musical numbers, is not present.
The tour promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/DVD release, `` Rock-O-Matic '', which features all new music from the band.
The album itself is produced independently of Disney and has a notably more mature, contemporary rock-and-roll sound, though स्टिल बहुत उचित for children.
Several performance तिथियाँ यहूद स्थानांतरित to बाद in 2012 to benefit from the increased exposure of the Imagination Movers TV show now playing daily on Disney Junior.
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania.
Together with the four species of echidna, it is one of the five extant species of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a number of related species have been found in the fossil record.
The असामान्य रूप of इस egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the एनिमल emblem of the state of New South Wales.
Until the जल्दी 20th century, it was hunted for its fur, but it is now protected throughout its range.
Although captive प्रजनन programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras (, from chupar `` to suck '' और cabra `` goat '', literally `` goat sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas.
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto Rico ( where these sightings were first reported ), Mexico, and the संयुक्त राज्य, विशेषकर in the latter 's Latin American communities.
The name आता from the animal 's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock, especially goats.
Physical descriptions of the creature vary.
Eyewitness sightings have महरूम claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico, and have since been reported as far north as Maine, and as far south as Chile, and even being spotted outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines.
It is supposedly a heavy creature, the size of a small bear, with a row of spines reaching from the neck to the base of the tail.
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have been disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking evidence, while most reports in northern Mexico and the southern United राज्य have महरूम सत्यापित as canids afflicted by mange.
Biologists and wildlife management officials view the chupacabra as a contemporary लेजेंड.
The North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) is an agreement signed by Canada, Mexico, and the United States, creating a trilateral trade bloc in North America.
The agreement came into force on January 1, 1994.
It superseded the canada–united States Free Trade Agreement between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American अनुबंध on पर्यावरणीय Cooperation ( NAAEC ) and the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ).
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses संतोष साथ the thermal environment and is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ANSI / ASHRAE Standard 55 ).
maintaining इस मानक of थर्मल सुकून लिये occupants of इमारतें or अन्य enclosures is एक of the महत्वपूर्ण लक्ष्य of hvac ( हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन, और एयर कंडीशनिंग ) design engineers.
The पूर्वानुमानित Mean Vote ( PMV ) model stands among the most recognized thermal comfort models.
It was developed using principles of heat balance and experimental data collected in a controlled climate chamber under steady state conditions.
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected in a controlled climate, it is not suitable for applications in naturally हवादार spaces which often have high levels of air movement.
This shortcoming motivated the development of a family of empirical statistical models of thermal comfort in naturally ventilated spaces known as adaptive models.
अनुकूली मॉडल of थर्मल सुकून consider occupants as dynamically interacting साथ उनके पर्यावरण, और controlling उनके थर्मल सुकून by अर्थात् of कपडे or window-opening और closing.
This is in contrast to thermal comfort in sealed buildings, in which occupants experience the environment passively.
Thermal comfort is प्रभावित by heat conduction, convection, radiation, and evaporative heat loss.
Thermal comfort is maintained when the heat generated by human metabolism is allowed to dissipate, thus maintaining थर्मल संतुलन साथ the surroundings.
it रै महरूम long पहचाना कि the सनसनी of अहसास hot or ठंडा is नहीं बस निर्भर on एयर तापमान अलोन.
Thermal comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 55 can be freely performed with the CBE Thermal Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55.
Durante degli Alighieri, simply referred to as दांते (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), was a major Italian poet of the Middle Ages.
His Divine Comedy, originally called ' and later called ' by Boccaccio, is widely considered the greatest literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature.
In Italy he is known as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet '' ) or just '.
He, Petrarch and Boccaccio are also known as `` the three स्रोतों '' or `` the three crowns ''.
Dante is also called the `` Father of the Italian language ''.
मुख्यालय ( Kobe, Japan )
( ) is a tire and rubber company आधारित in Japan.
It is part of the Sumitomo Group.
The company traces its origins to 1909, when the sumitomo Group made an investment in Dunlop Japan, the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the British company Dunlop Rubber.
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a close business relationship, and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired control of Dunlop Japan and renamed it sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd.
In 1985, when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by BTR plc, the कम्पनी acquired the automobile tire assets of Dunlop, including the right to use the Dunlop brand on automobile tires.
The acquisition did not include the US and Australian businesses, जिससे यहूद separately owned, but in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US from its management.
In 1997, Sumitomo formed a joint venture with Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, by which Goodyear and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture tires for each other 's markets, including Dunlop branded tires.
As part of the agreement, Goodyear acquired 75 % interests in Dunlop Tyres, the UK company which Sumitomo had formed, and in Dunlop Tire निगम.
Goodyear and Sumitomo also made निवेश in each other.
Today, the company makes a wide range of rubber आधारित products, including automobile tires, golf balls and tennis balls.
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated development environments ( IDE ) developed by Microsoft that are lightweight versions of the Microsoft Visual Studio product line.
Express Editions were conceived शुरूआत with Visual Studio 2005.
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use and easy-to-learn IDEs for users other than professional तन्त्र developers, such as hobbyists and students.
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe stretching लगभग across eight Alpine countries from Austria and Slovenia in the east, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Germany, France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south.
The mountains were formed over hundreds of लाखो of years as the African and Eurasian tectonic plates collided.
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in marine sedimentary rocks rising by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn.
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian border, and at is the highest mountain in the Alps.
The Alpine region area contains many peaks higher than, known as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The altitude and size of the range affects the climate in Europe ; in the mountains precipitation levels vary greatly and climatic conditions consist of distinct zones.
Wildlife such as ibex live in the higher peaks to elevations of, and plants such as Edelweiss grow in रॉकी क्षेत्रों in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations.
Evidence of human habitation in the Alps goes वापस to the Paleolithic era.
A mummified man, determined to be 5,000 years old, was discovered on a glacier at the Austrian–Italian border in 1991.
By the 6th century BC, the Celtic La Tène culture was well established.
hannibal may have crossed the Alps with a herd of elephants, and the Romans had settlements in the region.
In 1800 Napoleon crossed one of the mountain गुजरता साथ an army of 40,000.
the 18th और 19th सदियां देखी an influx of naturalists, लेखक, और कलाकारों, in particular the romantics, followed by the सुनहरी आयु of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks.
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine countries, with the exception of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a base of operation in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war.
The Alpine region has a strong सांस्कृतिक identity.
The traditional culture of farming, cheesemaking, and woodworking still exists in Alpine villages, although the tourist industry began to grow early in the 20th सदी और विस्तारित greatly after World War II to become the dominant industry by the end of the century.
the शीत ओलम्पिक खेल have महरूम hosted in the स्विस, फ्रेंच, इतालवी, आस्ट्रिया और जर्मनी ऐल्प्स.
At present the region is home to 14 million people and has 120 million annual visitors.
Lois Patrice griffin ( née Pewterschmidt ) is a character from the animated television series Family Guy.
She is voiced by writer Alex Borstein and first appeared on television, along with the rest of the family in the 15-minute short on December 20, 1998.
Lois was created and designed by series creator Seth MacFarlane.
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and Steve, a short made by MacFarlane which featured a middle-aged character named लैरी और an बौद्धिक dog, Steve.
After the pilot was given the green लाइट, the griffin family appeared on the episode `` Death Has a Shadow ``.
Lois is the mother of the Griffin परिवार.
With her husband Peter, she has had three children : मेग, Chris, and Stewie.
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother, despite her admitting to being a drug user, a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac.
Lois has also had अनेक affairs, one of which allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg.
She has appeared in other media relating to Family Guy—including a video game, commercials and books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise.
Lois 's distinctive New York accent originated from a character in a stage show that Alex Borstein had performed in, which was largely inspired by a relative who grew up on Long Island, New York.
Family हस्तांतरण of बास्क भाषा ( बास्क as आरंभिक भाषा )
Percentage of students registered in Basque भाषा schools ( 2000–2005 ).
Location of the basque-language provinces within Spain and France
Basque ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral भाषा of the बास्क लोगों, who inhabit the Basque Country, a region spanning an area in northeastern Spain and southwestern France.
It is spoken by 27 % of basques in all territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ).
Of these, 663,035 live in the Spanish part of the Basque country and the remaining 51,100 live in the French part.
In academic discussions of the distribution of Basque in Spain and France, it is customary to refer to three ancient provinces in France and four Spanish provinces.
Native speakers are concentrated in a contiguous area including parts of the Spanish autonomous communities of the Basque Country and Navarre and in the western half of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The Basque Autonomous जातियाँ is an प्रशासनिक एंटिटी भीतर the binational ethnographic बास्क देश incorporating the परंपरागत स्पेनी प्रांतों of biscay, gipuzkoa, और álava, जिससे retain उनके अस्तित्व as politico-administrative विभाजन.
These provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily populated by ethnic Basques, but Basque was, at least until the 1990s, not spoken as a native language in most of Álava, western parts of Biscay and central and southern areas of Navarre, either because it had been replaced by Spanish along the centuries, in some areas, or because it had never been spoken there, in other areas.
In southwestern फ़्रांस, the ancient Basque-populated provinces were Labourd, Lower Navarre, and Soule.
They and other regions were consolidated into a single département in 1790 अंतर्गत the नाम basses-pyrénées, a name which persisted until 1970.
A standardized form of the Basque language, called Euskara Batua, was developed by the Basque Language Academy in the late 1960s.
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by all Basque speakers—in formal situations ( education, mass media, literature ), and this is its main use today.
The role of this standard Basque language depends on the linguistic educational model of each region and each school.
In most areas of the Spanish Basque Country, the educational Model D, where all subjects are taught in Basque, except `` Spanish language and literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model.
In France, the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a दुभाषिया ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi meet a wide range of Basque language educational needs up to the Sixth Form, while often struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints.
Apart from this standardized version, there are five प्रमुख बास्क dialects : Bizkaian, Gipuzkoan, and Upper Navarrese in Spain, and Navarrese–Lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in France ).
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces, the dialect boundaries are not congruent with province boundaries.
The President, Directors and Company, of the बैंको of the संयुक्त States, commonly known as the First Bank of the United States, was a central bank, chartered for a term of twenty years, by the United States Congress on February 25, 1791.
Establishment of the Bank was included in a three-part expansion of federal fiscal and monetary power ( along with a federal mint and excise taxes ) championed by Alexander Hamilton, first Secretary of the Treasury.
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to stabilize and improve the nation 's credit, and to improve handling of the financial business of the United States government under the newly enacted Constitution.
Officially proposed to the first session of the First Congress in 1790, Hamilton 's Bank faced widespread resistance इससे प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of increased federal power.
सचिव of State Thomas Jefferson and James Madison led the opposition, which claimed that the bank was unconstitutional, and that it benefited merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population.
The First Bank building is now a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park.
जेम्स वेस्ले marsters ( born अगस्त 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता और संगीतकार.
Marsters first came to the attention of the general public playing the popular character Spike, a platinum-blond yobbish English vampire in the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin-off series, Angel, from 1997 to 2004.
Since then, he has gone on to play other science fiction roles, such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired series Smallville, the omnisexual time traveller Captain John Hart in अंग्रेजों science-fiction दिखाएँ torchwood and terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica.
Marsters appeared in a supporting role in the 2007 movie P.S.
I Love You and as the main antagonist, Piccolo, in the 2009 fantasy adventure film Dragonball Evolution.
He appeared as a recurring character in the first season of the revival of Hawaii 5-0.
In molecular biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; इसलिए, elevated levels measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether this production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' and over the counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, ज्ञात by her stage name Beyoncé ( ; born September 4, 1981 ), is an American singer, songwriter, dancer, and actress.
Born and raised in Houston, Texas, she performed in singing and dancing competitions as a child before forming in 1990 a group with Kelly Rowland and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child.
Once signed to Columbia Records, the girls subsequently became एक of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time.
The group was plagued by internal conflict और विधिक turmoil and Knowles suffered from depression that lasted for a number of years.
दौरान the समूह 's hiatus, Knowles released her debut solo album Dangerously in Love ( 2003 ), which earned her five Grammy Awards and has sold a total of 4.9 million copies in the US alone.
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in प्रेम, '' considered by VH1 to be the `` Greatest Song Of the 00 's, '' and `` Baby Boy. ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005, Knowles 's दूसरी सोलो एल्बम b'day ( 2006 ) contained the top five singles `` Déjà Vu ``, `` Irreplaceable ``, and `` Beautiful Liar ``.
Her performance in Dreamgirls ( 2006 ) earned her दो Golden Globe nominations.
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in that film inspired her subsequent album I Am...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits `` If I Were a Boy ``, `` Single Ladies ( Put a Ring on It ) ``, `` Halo ``, and `` Sweet Dreams ``.
The album also helped नॉलेस earn six Grammys in 2010, breaking the record for most Grammy Awards won by a female artist in one night.
Her fourth album 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards traditional R & B and became her fourth consecutive number one album on the Billboard 200.
In January 2012, Knowles gave birth to daughter Blue Ivy Carter, her first child with husband Jay-Z.
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in the US and 118 million records worldwide ( as well as a further 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड with Destiny 's Child ), and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
The Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) recognized Knowles as the Top Certified Artist of the 2000s.
In 2009, बिलबोर्ड नामित उसके the Top Radio Songs Artist of the decade and ranked her the Top Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade.
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award history, receiving 17 awards ; other accolades include 12 MTV Video Music Awards, 7 Billboard Awards including a Millennium Award, and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child.
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a song written by Bruce Robison and first recorded on his 1998 एल्बम Wrapped.
It was later covered by Tim McGraw with guest vocalist Faith Hill.
Released in July 2001, McGraw 's version was the second single इससे mcgraw 's Set This Circus Down album.
The song reached Number One on the बिलबोर्ड hot देश Singles & Tracks ( now Hot Country Songs ) charts.
Dear John is a 2010 American romantic drama - war film अभिनीत Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum.
It was released theatrically in North America on February 5, 2010.
The film was directed by Lasse Hallström, and it is an adaptation of निकोलस Sparks 's novel of the same name.
It follows the life of a soldier ( Channing Tatum ) after he falls in love with a young woman ( अमांडा seyfried ).
They decide to exchange letters to each other बाद he is तैनात to the war.
The movie was फिल्माया in 2009 in Charleston, South Carolina.
Despite receiving negative reviews, the film made a strong box office performance, knocking off Avatar after seven weekends in first place and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide.
The film was released on May 25, 2010 on DVD and Blu-ray.
These are lists of the busiest airports in the United States.
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport is the व्यस्ततम सिंगल विमानक्षेत्र in the United States.
However, all of the New York City metropolitan area 's airports combine to create the largest airport system in the United States, second in the world in terms of passenger traffic, and first in the world in terms of total flight operations.
Dora the Explorer is an American animated television series created by Chris Gifford, Valerie Walsh, and Eric Weiner.
Dora the Explorer became a regular series in 2000.
the दिखाएँ is carried on the निकलोडियन केबल टेलीविज़न संजाल, सहित the संबद्ध उपनाम Jr. channel.
It aired on CBS until सितंबर 2006.
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as part of a Nick en español block on NBC Universal -owned Telemundo through September 2006 ; since April 2008, this version of the program has been carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U block.
Santa Fe ( ; ( Tewa : Ogha Po'oge, ) ) is the capital of the U.S. state of New Mexico.
It is the fourth-largest city in the state and is the सीट of.
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy faith” in Spanish ) had a जनसांख्यिकी of 67,947 in the 2010 census.
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of सांता Fe County and is part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area.
The city’s full name when founded was La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San फ्रांसिस्को de Asís ( “The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ).
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, तब to Pepsi in 1961.
1765 broadside
The बेटे of स्वतंत्रता was a group consisting of American patriots that originated in the pre-independence North American British colonies.
The group was formed to protect the rights of the colonists and to take to the streets against the taxes by the British government.
They are best known for undertaking the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी in 1773, which led to the Intolerable Acts ( an intense crackdown by the British government ), and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots.
ओसाका castle
is a city in the Kansai region of Japan 's main island of Honshu, a designated city under the Local Autonomy Law, the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis, which comprises three major cities of Japan, Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe.
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay, Osaka is Japan 's third largest city by जनसांख्यिकी after Tokyo ( special wards ) and Yokohama.
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one of the largest metropolitan areas highly ranked in the world, with nearly 19 million people, and by GDP the second largest area in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world.
Historically the commercial center of Japan, ओसाका functions as one of the command centers for the Japanese economy.
The ratio between daytime and night time population is 141 %, the highest in Japan, highlighting its status as an economic center.
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million, the third in the country, but in daytime the population surges to 3.7 million, second only after Tokyo ( combining the special wards of Tokyo, which is not a single incorporated city, for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more सूचना on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ).
Osaka used to be referred to as the in सामंती ईदो period because it was the centre of trading for rice, creating the first modern futures exchange market in the world.
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Feature एनिमेशन और distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian andersen, the छोटी Mermaid tells the story of a beautiful mermaid who dreams of becoming human.
Written, directed, and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker, with music by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman, the film features the voices Jodi Benson, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Pat Carroll, Samuel E. Wright, Jason Marin, Kenneth Mars, Buddy Hacket, and Rene Auberjonois.
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series, The Little Mermaid was released to theaters on November 14, 1989 to largely positive reviews, garnering $ 84 million at the box office during its initial release, and $ 211 million in total lifetime gross.
After the success of the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who Framed Roger Rabbit, The Little Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the art of Disney animated feature films after a string of critical or commercial failures produced by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s.
It भी चिह्नित the start of the era known as the Disney Renaissance.
a स्टेज अनुकूलन of the फिल्मी साथ a किताब by डग राइट और अतिरिक्त गीतों by एलन menken और नई गीतों ग्लेन स्लेटर खोली in डेनवर in जुलाई 2007 और began प्रदर्शन on ब्रॉडवे जनवरी 10, 2008.
alt=Close-up photo of a मेटल चमचा filled with a viscous, clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for a recreational drug लोकप्रिय in the हिप hop community in the southern United States, originating in Houston, Texas.
Its main ingredient is prescription -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine.
Cough syrup is typically mixed with ingredients such as Sprite soft drink or Mountain Dew and pieces of Jolly Rancher candy.
The purplish hue of purple drank comes from dyes in the cough syrup.
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank, including sizzurp, lean, syrup, drank, barre, purple jelly, Texas tea, and Tsikuni.
First/given, middle, and last/family/surname diagram with J. S. Bach as उदाहरण.
J. S. Bach shared उसके दिए नाम with six immediate family members and many extended family members.
He shared his family name with most family सदस्यों.
A given name, in पश्चिमी contexts प्रायः referred to as a पहला नाम, is a निजी नाम कि specifies और differentiates between सदस्यों of a समूह of individuals, विशेषकर in a परिवार, सब of जिनकी सदस्यों प्रायः share the वही परिवार नाम ( उपनाम ).
A given name is purposefully given, प्रायः by a चाइल्ड 's अभिभावक at or near birth, in contrast to an inherited one such as a family name.
A given name is sometimes legally changed through a name change.
Given names are often प्रयुक्त in a familiar and friendly manner in informal situations.
In अधिक औपचारिक परिस्थितियों the surname is used instead, unless it is necessary to distinguish between people with the same surname.
The idiom `` on a first-name basis '' ( or `` on first-name terms '' ) alludes to the familiarity of addressing another by a given name.
The western style of having both a family name ( surname ) और a दिए name is far from universal.
In many countries it is common लिये ordinary people to have only one name ( a mononym ).
Hydrochloric acid is a clear, colourless solution of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water.
It is a highly corrosive, दमदार खनिज एसिड with many industrial uses.
Hydrochloric acid is found naturally in gastric acid.
Historically called muriatic acid, and spirits of salt, हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड थी उत्पादित from vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt.
It first appeared during the पुनर्जागरण, and then it was used by chemists such as Glauber, Priestley and Davy in their scientific research.
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution, hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical industry as a chemical reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic, and MDI / TDI for polyurethane.
It has numerous smaller-scale applications, including household सफ़ाई, production of gelatin and other food additives, descaling, and leather processing.
About 20 million tonnes of हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid are produced annually.
Wheat ( Triticum spp. ) is a cereal grain, originally from the Levant प्रदेश of the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands, but now cultivated worldwide.
In 2010, world production of wheat was 651 million tons, making it the third most-produced cereal after maize ( 844 लाख tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons ).
गेहूं थी the दूसरी most-produced खाद्यान्न in 2009 ; संसार उत्पादन in कि साल थी 682 लाख टन, बाद मक्का ( 817 लाख टन ), और साथ राइस as a बंद तीसरा ( 679 लाख tons ).
This grain is grown on more land area than any other वाणिज्यिक खाना.
World trade in wheat is greater than for all other crops combined.
Globally, wheat is the leading source of vegetable protein in human food, having a higher protein content than soybeans or the other major cereals, maize ( corn ) or rice.
In terms of total production tonnages used for food, it is फिलहाल second to rice as the main human food crop and ahead of maize, after allowing for maize 's more extensive use in animal feeds.
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the start of civilization because it was one of the first crops that could be easily cultivated on a large scale, and had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food.
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the Fertile Crescent, including the Babylonian and Assyrian empires.
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make flour for leavened, flat and steamed breads, biscuits, cookies, cakes, breakfast cereal, pasta, noodles, couscous and for fermentation to make beer, other alcoholic beverages, or biofuel.
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for livestock, and इसके straw can be used as a construction material for roofing thatch.
The whole अनाज can be milled to leave just the endosperm for white flour.
The by-products of इस हैं bran and germ.
The whole grain is a concentrated सोर्स of vitamins, minerals, and protein, while the refined grain is mostly starch.
मुद्रण
To publish is to make content available to the general public.
While specific उपयोग of the पद may vary among देशों, it is usually applied to text, images, or other audio-visual content on any traditional medium, including paper ( newspapers, magazines, catalogs, etc. ).
The word publication means the act of publishing, and also refers to any printed copies.
Melissa & Joey is an ABC Family original television series starring Melissa Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence.
it पहला aired on ABC Family on August 17, 2010.
The series follows local politician Mel Burke ( Melissa Joan Hart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence ), जिसको mel hires to look after her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke.
The series was renewed by ABC Family for a second season of fifteen episodes, which began airing on May 30, 2012 and ended on August 29, 2012.
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target ऑडियंस 18–34, 18–49 and 12–34 demographics.
On August 17, 2012, ABC Family renewed Melissa & Joey for a तीसरा season, set to premiere in spring 2013.
The Dharma wheel, often used to represent the Noble Eightfold Path
the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ (, ) is एक of the प्रिंसिपल शिक्षाओं of the बुद्ध, जो वर्णित it as the रास्ता अग्रणी to the cessation of कष्ट ( dukkha ) और the उपलब्धि of self-awakening.
It is used to develop insight into the true nature of phenomena ( or reality ) and to eradicate greed, hatred, और delusion.
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the first element of the Noble Eightfold Path is, in turn, an understanding of the Four Noble Truths.
it is भी ज्ञात as the मध्य पाथ or मध्य रास्ता.
All eight elements of the Path begin with the word `` right '', which translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ).
These denote completion, togetherness, and coherence, and can also suggest the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal ''.
'Samma ' is also translated as `` wholesome '', `` wise '' and `` skillful ''.
In Buddhist symbolism, the Noble Eightfold Path is often represented by means of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra ), whose eight spokes represent the आठ elements of the path.
The Grammy Award for Song of the Year is an honor presented at the Grammy Awards, a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards.
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to `` honor artistic achievement, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry, without regard to album sales or chart position. ''
Economics is the सोशल विज्ञान that analyzes the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services.
The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek ( ', `` management of a household, administration '' ) from ( ', `` house '' ) + ( ', `` custom '' or `` law '' ), hence `` नियम of the हाउस ( hold ) ''.
Political economy was the पहले नाम for the subject, but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter term for `` economic science '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as similar in form to `` mathematics ``, `` ethics '', and so forth.
A focus of the subject is how economic agents behave or interact and how economies work.
Consistent with this, a primary textbook distinction is between microeconomics and macroeconomics.
microeconomics examines the बर्ताव of मौलिक तत्व in the अर्थव्यवस्था, सहित व्यक्तिगत एजेंटों ( ऐसे as households और firms or as खरीदार और विक्रेता ) और बाज़ार, और उनके interactions.
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy and issues affecting it, including unemployment, inflation, economic growth, and monetary and fiscal नीति.
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative economics ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social ढांचा नेक्सस '' ).
Economic analysis may be applied throughout समाज, as in business, finance, health care, and government, but also to such diverse subjects as crime, education, the family, law, politics, religion, social institutions, war, and science.
At the फेरे of the 21st सदी, the expanding domain of economics in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism.
An increasing number of economists have called for increased emphasis on environmental sustainability ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics.
This is a list of Schedule IV drugs under the Controlled Substances Act लिये the United States.
Required findings for drugs to be लगाई in this schedule:
The drug or other substance has a low potential लिये गाली relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III.
The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United राज्य.
Abuse of the ड्रग or अन्य पदार्थ may सीसे to सीमित शारीरिक dependence or मनोवैज्ञानिक dependence सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in अनुसूची iii.
The पूरा list of Schedule IV drugs are as follows.
the प्रशासनिक नियंत्रित substances कोड क्रमांक लिये प्रत्येक ड्रग is शामिल.
US county household median आय 2009.
Median us household income, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used by the United राज्य government and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the income of every resident over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability payments, child support payments प्राप्त, नियमित rental receipts, as well as any personal business, investment, or other kinds of income received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and even decreased recently.
U.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's आय.
As households tend to share a similar economic context, the use of household income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income categories, and may render direct comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or even impossible.
the बीतने रेट is पारिभाषित as the रेट of घटी साथ ऊँचाई लिये an वायुमंडलीय परिवर्तनीय.
the परिवर्तनीय involved is temperature unless specified otherwise.
The terminology arises from the word lapse in the sense of a decrease or decline.
While most often applied to धरती 's atmosphere the concept can be extended to any gravitationally supported ball of gas.
Blue Mountain State is an American comedy series that premiered on Spike on January 11, 2010.
The series producers include Chris Romano and Eric Falconer, and it is produced by Lionsgate Television.
The series is about a fictional university, Blue Mountain State, and its football team, `` The Mountain Goats. ''
It portrays निश्चित aspects of American university life, including football, sex, binge drinking, drugs, wild partying, and hazing.
In February 2012, it was reported that Blue Mountain State would not be renewed for a fourth season.
In March 2013, Ed Marinaro stated that he is working on a Blue Mountain राज्य फिल्मी.
Apple Inc., formerly Apple Computer, Inc., is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Cupertino, California that designs, develops, and sells consumer electronics, computer software and personal computers.
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of computers, the iPod music player, the iPhone smartphone, and the iPad tablet computer.
Its software includes the OS X and iOS operating systems, the iTunes media browser, the Safari web browser, and the iLife and iwork रचनात्मकता और उत्पादन suites.
the company was founded on April 1, 1976, and incorporated as Apple Computer, Inc. on January 3, 1977.
The word `` Computer '' was removed from its name on January 9, 2007, reflecting its shifted focus towards consumer electronics after the introduction of the iPhone.
Apple is the world 's second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung Electronics, and the world 's third-largest मोबाईल phone maker after Samsung and Nokia.
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the United States in 2008, and in the world from 2008 to 2012.
However, the company has received criticism for its contractors ' labor practices, and for Apple 's own environmental and business practices.
, Apple maintains 394 retail stores in fourteen देशों as खूब as the online Apple Store and iTunes Store.
It is the second-largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization, साथ an अनुमानित value of US $ 414 billion as of January 2013.
, the company had 72,800 स्थाई full-time कर्मचारी और 3,300 temporary full-time employees worldwide.
Its worldwide annual आय in 2012 totalled $ 156 billion.
खण्ड 8 आवास in the दक्षिण bronx
Section 8 of the आवास अधिनियम of 1937 ( ), often simply known as Section 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the payment of rental housing assistance to private landlords on behalf of approximately 3.1 million low-income households.
It operates through several programs, the largest of जिससे, the Housing Choice Voucher program, pays a large portion of the rents and utilities of about 2.1 million households.
The US Department of आवास and Urban Development manages the Section 8 programs.
The Housing Choice Voucher Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental assistance, so a tenant can move from one unit of at least न्यूनतम आवास quality to another.
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the purchase of a home, with over $ 17 billion going towards ऐसे purchases प्रत्येक साल ( from ncsha.org analysis ).
The maximum अनुमत voucher is $ 2200 a month.
खण्ड 8 भी authorizes a किस्में of `` project-based '' rental सहायता कार्यक्रम, अंतर्गत जिससे the मालिक reserves कुछ or सब of the इकाई in a भवन लिये low-income किरायेदारों, in वापसी लिये a संघीय सरकारी गारंटी to मेक up the अंतर between the किरायेदार 's योगदान और the किराया लिये 1 cent in the मालिक 's अनुबंध साथ the सरकारी.
a किरायेदार जो पत्ते a subsidized प्रोजेक्ट होगा खोना अभिगम to the project-based subsidy.
The संयुक्त States Department of Housing and Urban Development and United States Department of Veterans Affairs have a special Section 8 program called VASH ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing ), or HUD-VASH, which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans.
Restaurants categorized by type and information about these अलग types.
U.S. संघीय आरक्षित notes in the mid-1990s
The history of the United States dollar covers more than 200 years.
