a partly submerged हिमानी गुफा on Perito Moreno Glacier.
The बर्फ मुखाग्र is लगभग 60 m high
Ice formations in the titlis glacier cave
A glacier cave is a गुफा formed भीतर the बर्फ of a glacier.
Glacier गुफाएं हैं प्रायः पुकारा बर्फ गुफाएं, लकिन इस पद is properly प्रयुक्त to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice.
In भौतिकी, गोलाकार गति is a गति of an ऑब्जेक्ट along the circumference of a circle or rotation along a circular path.
It can be uniform, with constant angular rate of रोटेशन ( और निरंतर गति ), or non-uniform साथ a बदलना rate of rotation.
The rotation around a फिक्स्ड अक्ष of a three-dimensional देह involves गोलाकार motion of its parts.
The equations of motion describe the गति of the बीच of द्रव्यमान of a देह.
Examples of circular गति शामिल : an कृत्रिम उपग्रह orbiting the धरती at निरंतर ऊँचाई, a स्टोन जिससे is tied to a रस्सी और is होने swung in वृत्त, a car turning through a वक्र in a रेस track, an इलेक्ट्रॉन moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field, and a gear turning inside a mechanism.
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly बदलना दिशा, the चलती ऑब्जेक्ट is undergoing त्वरण by a अभिकेन्द्रीय force in the direction of the center of rotation.
Without this acceleration, the ऑब्जेक्ट होता मूव in a सीधा लकीर, according to न्यूटन 's कानून of motion.
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the undisputed हेवीवेट Champion of the World.
He was निभाई by कार्ल weathers.
पंथ था अनेक nicknames, सहित the निपुण of विपत्ति, the किंग of स्टिंग, the नाचना Destroyer, The Prince of Punch, The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto.
Urban लेजेंड राज्य कि अपोलो पंथ 's नाम is a wordplay on the रसूलों ' पंथ, a बयान of belief used in Christian churches.
All of Apollo 's चैंपियनशिप झगड़े यहूद अनुसूचित for the 15 round distance.
Championship झगड़े किया नहीं बदलें इससे 15 rounds to 12 rounds जबतक 1987.
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited साथ popularizing the रेड, श्वेत, और ब्लू trunks ; पंथ थी the पहला man to पहनें उन्हें ( latterly worn by रॉकी बाल्बोआ in the 3rd और 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white, as seen in Rocky II.
Balboa 's signature colors were black and gold—colors he प्रयुक्त in the नवीनतम फिल्म.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in आलेख ii of the संयुक्त States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose क्षेत्राधिकार हैं परे the संवैधानिक शक्ति of कॉंग्रेस to alter, अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13 न्यायालयों of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) साथ appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over अलग regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a अदालत may be categorized as a संघीय न्यायधीश ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ शामिल the मुख्य इंसाफ और संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, and district judges of the United States district courts.
All of these judges described यूँ दूर हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, judges of the Court of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार कसरत न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the संघीय न्यायालयों, सहित मजिस्ट्रेट न्यायाधीशों और दिवालियापन न्यायाधीशों, हैं भी sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however, वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the President nor confirmed by the Senate, and their power derives from Article I instead.
देखिए आलेख i और आलेख III tribunals.
The beretta 21a बॉबकैट is a छोटी pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by Beretta in Italy.
Production began in late 1984, solely in the beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek, Maryland.
it is a further विकास of the beretta मॉडल 20, whose production ended in 1985.
Variable सार्वभौमिक जीवन बीमे ( प्रायः shortened to vul ) is a प्रकार of जीवन बीमे कि builds a cash value.
In a VUL, the नकदी मान can be invested in a चौड़ी किस्में of पृथक खाते, समान to परस्पर funds, and the choice of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner.
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to इस क्षमता to invest in पृथक खाते जिनकी मान vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets.
The 'universal ' घटक in the नाम refers to the लचीलापन the मालिक रै in बनाना premium payments.
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums पारिभाषित by the आतंरिक आय कोड लिये जीवन insurance.
This flexibility is in contrast to whole जीवन बीमे कि रै फिक्स्ड प्रीमियम भुगतान कि typically can नहीं be छूटी बगैर lapsing the नीति ( हालांकि एक may कसरत an स्वचालित प्रीमियम ऋण विशेषता, or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ).
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance, because the मौत लाभ होगा be सशुल्क if the insured मरता कोई समय as long as वहीँ is sufficient नकदी मान to अदा the लागत of insurance in the policy.
With most if not all VULs, नापसंद पूरे जीवन, वहीँ is no endowment आयु ( the आयु at जिससे the नकदी मान बराबरी the मौत लाभ amount, which for whole life is typically 100 ).
This is yet another कुंजी लाभ of vul over Whole Life.
With a typical whole life नीति, the मौत लाभ is सीमित to the फेस राशि निर्दिष्ट in the policy, and at endowment age, the face amount is all that is paid out.
यूँ साथ either मौत or endowment, the बीमे कम्पनी keeps any cash value built up over the years.
However, some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the नीति be प्रयुक्त to खरीदें `` सशुल्क up परिवर्धन '' to the नीति जिससे बढ़ाएँ दोनो the नकदी मान और the मौत लाभ over time.
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the सामान्य खाता of the बीमे कम्पनी, a उच्चतर rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life.
The combination over the years of no endowment age, continually increasing मौत लाभ, और if a ऊँची rate-of-return is अर्जित in the पृथक खाते of a vul नीति, इस could परिणाम in उच्चतर मान to the मालिक or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums.
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the क्लासिक लकडी स्टोव adapted लिये set-up बाहरी जबकि स्टिल transferring the ऊष्मा to interior buildings.
A mound of लड़की स्काउट cookies.
This mound contains 74 बाक्स of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by लड़की स्काउट of the यूएसए ( gsusa ) as एक of इसके प्रमुख fundraisers लिये लोकल स्काउट units.
Members of the GSUSA have been selling कुकीज़ चूंकि 1917 to raise funds.
लड़कियों जो participate can earn पुरस्कार for their efforts.
There are भी ईकाई प्रोत्साहन if the ईकाई as a whole does well.
As of 2007, बिक्री यहूद अनुमानित at परिचय 200 million boxes per year.
विश्वविद्यालयों Hall
Purdue University, स्तिथ in वेस्ट lafayette, इंडियाना, is the फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the six-campus Purdue University system.
Purdue was founded on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant university when the Indiana General सभा, लेने लाभ of the morrill अधिनियम, स्वीकृत a दान of जमीन और धन इससे lafayette बिजनेसमैन जॉन purdue to स्थापित a कॉलेज of विज्ञान, प्रौद्योगिकी, and agriculture in his name.
The first classes were held on September 16, 1874, साथ छह instructors और 39 विद्यार्थी.
Today, Purdue is a member of the Big टेन सम्मेलन, और is a खूब ज्ञात world-class research institution.
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in इंडियाना as खूब as the चौथी largest अंतरराष्ट्रीय छात्र जनसांख्यिकी of कोई विश्वविद्यालयों in the संयुक्त States.
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 211 प्रमुख क्षेत्रों of पढ़ाई, और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके प्रतिस्पर्धी अभियान्त्रिकी curricula.
The university has also been अत्यधिक influential in अमेरिका 's इतिहास of विमानन, having स्थापित the पहला कॉलेज क्रेडिट offered in उड़ान training, the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation, and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ).
Purdue 's aviation technology कार्यक्रम remains एक of the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी aviation-specific programs in the world.
In the mid-20th सदी, purdue 's विमानन कार्यक्रम विस्तारित to encompass उन्नत spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving वृद्धि to purdue 's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.
twenty-three purdue graduates have गए on to become astronauts, सहित गस grissom ( एक of the असली पारा सात astronauts ), neil आर्मस्ट्रांग ( the first person to walk on the moon ), and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term कि loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( भी ज्ञात as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or पिलर cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
क्युकी an epidermoid गाँठ originates in the epidermis और a पिलर गाँठ originates इससे बाल follicles, by परिभाषा, neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst.
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, श्वेत, semi-solid सामग्री in दोनो of ये गाँठ entities is नहीं sebum, लकिन keratin.
Furthermore, अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी neither एंटिटी contains वसामय glands.
In practice, however, the शर्तें हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are अपेक्षाकृत विरल और हैं ज्ञात as steatocystomas or, if अनेक, as steatocystoma multiplex.
आधुनिक pointe जूते.
The edge of the toe pad, जिससे is inserted between the पैर और टो बक्सा for cushioning, can be seen on the right foot.
A pointe जूता is a प्रकार of जूता worn by बैले नर्तक जब performing pointe work.
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless और sylph -like और have विकसित to enable नर्तक to नृत्य en pointe ( on the नुस्ख़े of उनके toes ) लिये विस्तारित अवधि of time.
They are normally worn by female dancers, though male नर्तक may पहनें उन्हें लिये अपरंपरागत भूमिकाएँ ऐसे as the भद्दा stepsisters in सिंडरेला, नीचे in a midsummer रात्रि 's सपना, or मेन performing as महिलाओं in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva.
वे हैं manufactured in a किस्में of रंगों, most commonly in shades of light pink.
This tablespoon रै a क्षमता of परिचय 15 mL.
measuring spoons
In the US and parts of Canada, a tablespoon is the largest प्रकार of चमचा प्रयुक्त लिये खाने इससे a कटोरी.
In the uk, यूरोपीय और सबसे राष्ट्रमंडल देशों, a tablespoon is a प्रकार of large spoon usually used for serving.
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon, the nearest समतुल्य to the us tablespoon is either the मिठाई चमचा or the सूप spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the capacity of one tablespoon, is commonly प्रयुक्त as a माप of आवाज़ in cooking.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is नहीं regulated by विधि और is विषय to considerable विभिन्नता.
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement ईकाई ) is लगभग 15 ml ; the क्षमता of an वास्तविक tablespoon ( डाइनिंग utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL.
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया एक tablespoon ( मापन unit ) is 20 mL.
Harry Potter is a श्रेणी of सात काल्पनिक novels लिखा by the British author J. K. Rowling.
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard, Harry Potter, और उसके मित्रों रोनाल्ड वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर, all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark जादूगर रब voldemort, जिनकी aims हैं to become अमर, जीतें the wizarding संसार, subjugate non-magical people, and destroy all those who stand in his way, especially Harry Potter.
Since the release of the first अनोखा हैरी कुम्हार और the पारस 's स्टोन on 30 जून 1997, the किताबे have gained immense popularity, critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide.
The series has also had some share of आलोचना, सहित चिंता लिये the increasingly अंधेरा टोन.
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies, making it the best-selling किताब श्रेणी in इतिहास, और रै महरूम अनूदित into 67 भाषाएं.
the पिछला चार किताबे consecutively नियत records as the fastest-selling books in history.
A series of many genres, सहित काल्पनिक और coming of आयु ( साथ तत्व of रहस्य, थ्रिलर, एडवेंचर, and romance ), it has many cultural meanings and references.
according to रोलिंग, the प्रमुख theme is death.
There are also many other विषयवस्तु in the श्रेणी, ऐसे as पूर्वाग्रह और भ्रष्टाचार.
The initial major publishers of the books were Bloomsbury in the संयुक्त किंगडम और scholastic दबायें in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The किताबे have चूंकि महरूम प्रकाशित by many publishers worldwide.
The books, with the सातवाँ किताब विभाजित into दो भाग, have महरूम बना into an eight-part फिल्मी श्रेणी by warner भाईs. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of all time.
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise, बनाना the हैरी कुम्हार ब्रांड लायक in excess of $ 15 अरब.
भी due to the कामयाबी of the किताबे और films, हैरी कुम्हार रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये a थीम park, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure.
RS-68 being tested at नासा 's stennis स्पेस बीच.
The nearly पारदर्शी exhaust is due to इस इंजन 's exhaust होने mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants, hydrogen and oxygen )
viking 5c प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन
A rocket engine, or बस `` प्रक्षेपास्त्र '', is a जेट इंजन कि उपयोग only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet.
Rocket engines are reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance साथ न्यूटन 's तीसरा law.
Since they need no external सामग्री to रूप उनके जेट, प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन can be प्रयुक्त लिये spacecraft नोदन as खूब as स्थलीय उपयोग, such as missiles.
Most प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन हैं आतंरिक दहन इंजन, हालांकि non-combusting forms also exist.
Rocket engines as a group have the उच्चतम exhaust गतियाँ, हैं by दूर the lightest, लकिन हैं the तनिक propellant efficient of all types of jet engines.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार britney Spears.
It served as Spears 's debut सिंगल और शीर्षक track इससे उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम,... baby One More Time ( 1999 ).
लिखा by अधिकतम मार्टिन और उत्पादित by मार्टिन और रामी, ``... baby एक अधिक समय '' थी released on September 30, 1998, by Jive Records.
After recording and sending a डेमो टेप साथ an अप्रयुक्त सोंग इससे toni braxton, Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a टीन पॉप और dance-pop सोंग कि refers to a girl who regrets breaking up with her boyfriend.
The song received generally अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, जो praised its composition.
``... Baby One अधिक समय '' attained वैश्विक कामयाबी, reaching क्रमांक एक in every country it charted.
It also received numerous certifications around the world, and is एक of the best-selling singles of सब समय, साथ over 10 million copies sold.
An accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो, निर्देशित by निगेल लंड, portrays स्पीयर्स as a छात्र इससे a कैथोलिक ऊँची स्कूल, जो starts to daydream कि वो is गायन और नाचना around the स्कूल, while watching her love interest from afar.
The music video was बाद संदर्भित in the म्यूज़िक वीडियो of `` if u तलाश एमी `` ( 2008 ), जहाँ स्पीयर्स 's fictional बेटी is dressed with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her hair.
In 2010, the music video for ``... Baby One More Time '' was voted the third most influential वीडियो in the इतिहास of पॉप म्यूज़िक, in a पोल आयोजित by jam !.
Spears has performed ``... Baby One More Time '' in a क्रमांक of सजीव दिखावे और in सब of उसके concert tours.
It was the encore of the... baby एक अधिक समय दौरे ( 1999 ) और सपना भीतर a सपना दौरे ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स भी performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops !...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ), The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ), The m+m 's दौरे ( 2007 ), the सर्कस अभिनीत britney स्पीयर्स ( 2009 ), और the femme fatale दौरे ( 2011 ).
``... Baby One More Time '' थी मनोनीत लिये a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन, और रै महरूम शामिल in सूचियाँ by Blender, Rolling Stone and VH1.
It has been विख्यात लिये redefining the ध्वनि of लेट 1990s music.
स्पीयर्स रै नामित ``... baby एक अधिक समय '' as एक of उसके पसंदीदा songs from her career.
It was also the फाइनल सोंग to be निभाई on the बीबीसी 's music programme Top of the Pops.
Cholera is an संक्रमण in the छोटी आंत caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae.
The main symptoms हैं watery अतिसार और उल्टी.
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( बर्बाद उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित व्यक्ति, सहित एक साथ no apparent लक्षण.
The severity of the अतिसार और उल्टी can सीसे to रैपिड निर्जलीकरण और electrolyte imbalance, and death in some cases.
The primary उपचार is मौखिक पुनर्जलीकरण चिकित्सा, typically साथ मौखिक पुनर्जलीकरण समाधान, to बदलें जल and electrolytes.
If this is not tolerated or करता नहीं provide सुधार तेज़ पर्याप्त, intravenous fluids can also be used.
Antibacterial drugs are फायदेमंद in those साथ कठोर बीमारी to shorten its duration and severity.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 लाख लोगों और कल्याणकारी 100,000–130,000 मौतों a year.
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be पढ़ाई by epidemiological methods.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published अनोखा by ऑस्कर वाइल्ड, appearing as the सीसे स्टोरी in lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका on 20 जून 1890, printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine.
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as सुपुर्द, so वे censored roughly 500 शब्द, बगैर वाइल्ड 's ज्ञान, पहले publication.
But भी साथ कि, the स्टोरी थी स्टिल greeted साथ आक्रोश by अंग्रेजों reviewers, कुछ of जिसको सुझाया that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds, leading Wilde to defend the novel aggressively in letters to the British press.
Wilde later revised the स्टोरी लिये किताब प्रकाशन, बनाना substantial alterations, हटाना विवादास्पद passages, adding new chapters and including an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right.
The amended संस्करण थी प्रकाशित by वार्ड, ताला and Company in April 1891.
Some scholars believe कि वाइल्ड होता आज have चाही us to पढ़ा the संस्करण he originally submitted to Lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a young man named डोरियन धूसर, the विषय of a पेंटिंग by कलाकार बेसिल Hallward.
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him, believing उसके सौंदर्य is जिम्मेदार लिये a नई विधि in उसके आर्ट.
डोरियन meets रब हेनरी wotton, a dost of बेसिल 's, और becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view.
espousing a नई hedonism, रब हेनरी suggests the तभी बाते लायक pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses.
Realizing that one day his beauty will फीका, डोरियन ( whimsically ) expresses a ख्वाहिश to बेचें उसके आत्मा to ensure the पोर्ट्रेट Basil has painted would age rather than he.
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a जीवन of विलासिता, the पोर्ट्रेट serves as a स्मरण of the प्रभाव प्रत्येक अधिनियम रै upon उसके आत्मा, साथ प्रत्येक सिन प्रदर्शित as a disfigurement of his form, or through a sign of aging.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a work of क्लासिक गोथिक fiction साथ a दमदार faustian थीम.
Sári Gábor ( born 6 फ़रवरी 1917 ), ज्ञात as ज़ा ज़ा गैबर ( ), is a हंगेरियाई -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies, on Broadway, and occasionally on television.
गैबर थी भी a socialite.
She began her stage career in Vienna at age 15, और थी पहनाया मिस हंगेरियाई in 1936.
She emigrated to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1941 और became a sought-after अभिनेत्री साथ `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर और style '', with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace ''.
Her first movie role was as supporting अभिनेत्री in प्यारे to dekh at.
She later acted in we 're नहीं शादीशुदा !
and played एक of उसके few अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in moulin रूज ( 1952 ), निर्देशित by जॉन हस्टन, जो described her as a `` creditable '' actress.
Besides her film and television दिखावे, वो is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये having नौ पतियों, सहित होटल महारथी कोनराड Hilton and actor George Sanders.
She once stated, `` Men have सदा liked me और i have सदा liked men.
But I like a mannish man, a man who knows कैसा to बात to और दावत a स्त्री – नहीं just a man with muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 जुलाई 1973 ) थी a चाइनीज अमरीकी martial कलाकार, कर्ता, martial कला प्रशिक्षक, पारस, और फिल्मकार.
The founder of Jeet Kune do, ली थी the बेटे of cantonese ओपेरा स्टार Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely considered by टीकाकारों, आलोचकों, मीडिया और अन्य martial कलाकारों to be एक of the सबसे influential martial कलाकारों of सब समय, और a पॉप संस्कृति प्रतीक of the 20th century.
He is often credited साथ helping to बदलें the रास्ता एशियाइ यहूद प्रस्तुत in American films.
Lee was born in Chinatown, सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 नवम्बर 1940 to अभिभावक इससे हांग काँग और थी उठाया in Kowloon with his family until his late teens.
He was introduced to the फिल्मी उद्योग by उसके पिता और appeared in several films as a child actor.
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to प्राप्त उसके उच्चतर शिक्षा, and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts.
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a new level of लोकप्रियता और acclaim, sparking a surge of ब्याज in चाइनीज martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The direction and tone of his films changed and बहकावे martial कला और martial कला films in हांग काँग और the बाकी of the संसार.
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The बिग boss ( 1971 ) और मुट्ठी of फ़्यूरी ( 1972 ) ; रास्ता of the ड्रैगन ( 1972 ), निर्देशित और लिखा by ली ; warner भाइयो ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ), both directed by Robert Clouse.
Lee became an iconic फिगर ज्ञात throughout the संसार, विशेषकर among the चाइनीज, as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films.
He initially trained in wing chun, लकिन बाद अस्वीकृत well-defined martial आर्ट शैलियाँ, favouring बजाय the उपयोग of तकनीकों इससे विभिन्न स्त्रोत, in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy, which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ).
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong काँग और the संयुक्त राज्य.
He died in कोलून टोंग on 20 जुलाई 1973 at आयु 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), भी ज्ञात as दीर्घकालिक obstructive फेफड़ों बीमारी ( ठंडा ), दीर्घकालिक obstructive airway बीमारी ( coad ), दीर्घकालिक airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) और दीर्घकालिक obstructive respiratory बीमारी ( CORD ), is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema, a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time.
This limits airflow to and from the फेफड़े, causing shortness of साँस ( dyspnea ).
in नैदानिक अभ्यास, copd is पारिभाषित by इसके characteristically कम airflow on lung function tests.
In contrast to asthma, इस limitation is poorly reversible और प्रायः gets progressively worse over time.
COPD is caused by noxious अणु or गैस, सबसे commonly इससे तम्बाकू धूम्रपान, which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung.
The निदान of copd requires फेफड़ों फलन tests.
Important management रणनीति हैं धूम्रपान cessation, vaccinations, पुनर्वास, और ड्रग therapy ( often using inhalers ).
Some patients go on to आवश्यकता long-term ऑक्सीजन चिकित्सा or फेफड़ों प्रत्यारोपण.
विश्वव्यापी, copd क्रमित as the छठे अग्रणी कारण of death in 1990.
It is projected to become the fourth leading कारण of मौत विश्वव्यापी by 2030, due to an बढ़ाएँ in धूम्रपान दरों और जनसांख्यिकी changes in many countries.
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S., and the economic बोझ of copd in the u.S. in 2007 थी $ 42.6 अरब in स्वास्थ्य परवाह लागत और खोया उत्पादकता.
annelies `` ऐनी '' मारी फ़्रैंक (, ?, ; 12 जून 1929early कूच 1945 ) is एक of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust.
Her डायरी रै महरूम the आधार लिये several plays and films.
born in the नगर of फ्रैंकफर्ट am Main in Weimar Germany, she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.
Born a जर्मनी नेशनल, फ़्रैंक खोया उसके नागरिकता in 1941.
She gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय कीर्ति मरणोपरांत बाद उसके डायरी was published.
It documents her experiences hiding during the जर्मनी occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स in संसार युद्ध ii.
The फ़्रैंक परिवार स्थानांतरित इससे जर्मनी to एम्सटर्डम in 1933, the year the Nazis gained control over Germany.
By the शुरूआत of 1940, वे यहूद फंस in एम्सटर्डम by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands.
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942, the परिवार गई into छुपाना in the छुपा कक्ष of ऐनी 's पिता, ओटो फ़्रैंक 's, office building.
After two years, the group was betrayed and transported to विशेषज्ञता camps.
ऐनी फ़्रैंक और उसके सिस्टर, margot, यहूद आखिरकार transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where they died of typhus in March 1945.
Otto Frank, the only survivor of the परिवार, लौटे to एम्सटर्डम बाद the युद्ध to ढूँढें कि ऐनी 's डायरी था महरूम saved, और उसके प्रयत्न led to इसके प्रकाशन in 1947.
It was translated from its original डच और पहला प्रकाशित in अंग्रेज़ी in 1952 as the डायरी of a यंग लड़की.
It has since been अनूदित into अनेक भाषाएं.
the डायरी, जिससे थी दिए to ऐनी on उसके 13th जन्मदिवस, क्रॉनिकल्स her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944.
कर्ट 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – अप्रैल 5, 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर, guitarist और प्राथमिक songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist novoselic in एबरडीन, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल म्यूज़िक झाँकी, having इसके डेब्यू एल्बम ब्लीच released on the स्वतंत्र record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found भेदन कामयाबी साथ `` खुश्बू जैसे टीन स्पिरिट `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the कामयाबी of nevermind, निर्वाण थी labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी x, और कोबेन hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
कोबेन, however, थी प्रायः असहज और कुंठित, believing उसके संदेश और कलाकारी दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often subject to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's दर्शक साथ इसके फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम in Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन, illness and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image, and the professional and lifelong निजी pressures surrounding खुद और उसके बीवी, संगीतकार कोर्टनी Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in सिएटल, the शिकार of कया थी officially शासित a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The circumstances of उसके मौत at आयु 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
Since their debut, Nirvana, साथ कोबेन as a songwriter, रै बेची over 25 लाख एल्बम in the u.S., और over 50 लाख worldwide.
रेडियल इंजन समय और cam mechanism.
click लिये पूरा रेज़ोल्यूशन animation.
Radial engine of a बाईप्लेन
Master rod ( upright ), स्लेव और balances इससे a two-row, fourteen-cylinder pratt & व्हिटनी Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine विन्यास in जिससे the सिलेंडर पाइंट outward इससे a सेंट्रल crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel.
It resembles a stylized स्टार जब viewed इससे the सामने, और is पुकारा a `` स्टार इंजन '' ( जर्मनी sternmotor ) in some languages.
The radial configuration was very commonly प्रयुक्त in वायुयान इंजन पहले टर्बाइन इंजन became predominant.
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom, created by सुसान हैरिस, कि originally aired on एनबीसी इससे सितंबर 13, 1985, to may 9, 1992.
Starring Bea Arthur, बेट्टी श्वेत, rue mcclanahan और estelle getty, the दिखाएँ centers on चार पुरानी महिलाओं sharing a home in Miami, Florida.
It was produced by witt/thomas/harris प्रोडक्शन्स, in संघ साथ touchstone टेलीविज़न, और पॉल junger witt, टोनी थामस, और हैरिस served as the original executive producers.
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout सबसे of इसके चलाएं और जीती अनेक पुरस्कार, सहित the प्राइमटाइम Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice.
It also won three Golden Globe Awards लिये बेहतरीन टेलीविज़न श्रेणी – musical or कॉमेडी.
All चार सितारों प्रत्येक प्राप्त an एमी पुरस्कार throughout the series ' run and had multiple nominations.
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated कार्यक्रम लिये छह आउट of इसके सात सीज़न.
Deepwater खुदाई is the प्रक्रम of आयल और गैस खोजी and production in depths of more than 500 feet.
By this definition, वहीँ हैं लगभग 600 deepwater कुएं in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको.
It has been economically infeasible for many सालो, लकिन साथ उठती आयल कीमतें, अधिक कंपनियाँ हैं निवेश in इस area.
Major companies working in इस सेक्टर शामिल डायमंड offshore, TransOcean, and Baker Hughes.
There are basically two kinds of मोबाईल deepwater खुदाई rigs : semi-submersible खुदाई rigs and drillships.
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position संस्थापना ऐसे as a फ्लोटिंग spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform.
हाल उद्योग विश्लेषण रै अनुमानित कि the कुल व्यय in the वैश्विक deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not all oil is accessible on जमीन or in shallow water.
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.”... Using sonic उपकरण, आयल कंपनियाँ determine the खुदाई साइट सबसे संभावित to produce oil.
Then they use a मोबाईल offshore खुदाई ईकाई ( मोदू ) to खुदाई the initial well.
Some units are converted into उत्पादन rigs, अर्थ वे स्विच इससे खुदाई लिये oil to capturing oil once it 's found.
Most of the time, the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent आयल उत्पादन रिग to कैप्चर oil.”... the मोदू 's जॉब is to ड्रिल bas into the समंदर 's मंजिल to ढूँढें आयल जमा.
The part of the drill that extends नीचे the डेक और through the जल is पुकारा the riser.
The riser allows for drilling fluids to मूव between the मंजिल और the rig.
Engineers lower a drill string -- a श्रेणी of पाइप designed to ड्रिल bas to the आयल जमा -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater खुदाई is happening despite दुर्घटनाओं in offshore fields... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred हत्या 11 मजदूर और spilling लाखो of गैलन of आयल into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the भूमध्यसागरीय और बंद the coast of ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी बाद a स्ट्रिंग of विशाल discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such drilling, विश्लेषक कह, is continuing ऊँची माँग लिये उर्जा worldwide.”
America needs the आयल so it is लगभग जरुरी to फेस the ऊँची risks कि आइये साथ deepwater खुदाई in order for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives.
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf आयल उत्पादन होता विस्तार इससे इसके 2011 स्तर of 1.3 लाख barrels a दिन, स्टिल nearly a क्वार्टर of कुल घरेलू production, to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
deepwater खुदाई affects the पर्यावरण in both negative and positive ways.
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is स्टिल a hazardous संभावित निष्कर्ष.
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the नीचे of the समंदर smothering संयंत्र जीवन leaving मछली बगैर खाना और shelter to survive.
On the other hand deepwater खुदाई प्रभाव the environment in a positive ways too.
In time once the deepwater oil खूब is नहीं in उपयोग anymore पौधे होगा grow on और around the खूब बनाना a गुफा or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in.
deepwater खुदाई भी lets us देखिए the गहराइयों of the ocean floor that are hardly ever seen.
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the कुएं रिकार्ड फुटेज और लो फ़ोटो of विरल मछली कि हैं in वहीँ प्राकृतिक आवास, giving वैज्ञानिक a dekh at पशु वे rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ). ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American स्त्री साथ जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having था an `` improper संबंध '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair और इसके परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
Francis Albert `` फ़्रैंक '' सिनात्रा,, ( दिसम्बर 12, 1915 – may 14, 1998 ) थी an American singer and film actor.
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry जेम्स और टॉमी dorsey, सिनात्रा मिला unprecedented कामयाबी as a सोलो कलाकार इससे the जल्दी to mid-1940s बाद being signed to Columbia Records in 1943.
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released उसके पहला एल्बम, the आवाज़ of फ़्रैंक Sinatra in 1946.
उसके पेशेवर करियर था stalled by the 1950s, लकिन it थी पुनर्जन्म in 1953 बाद he जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity.
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded एल्बम ( ऐसे as in the मूत छोटी घंटों, गीतों लिये swingin ' प्रेमियों !, आइये मक्खी साथ me, Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ).
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label, Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !, Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert सिनात्रा & अंतोनियो कार्लोस jobim ), toured internationally, थी a founding सदस्य of the चूहा पैक और fraternized साथ हस्तियाँ और कूटनीतिज्ञों, सहित जॉन F. कैनेडी.
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective सितंबर of my सालो, स्ट्रक्चर in the एमी -winning टेलीविज़न खास फ़्रैंक सिनात्रा : a man और उसके म्यूज़िक, and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way ``.
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in अनेक poorly प्राप्त films, सिनात्रा रिटायर्ड लिये the first time in 1971.
Two सालो बाद, however, he आए आउट of रिटायरमेंट और in 1973 अंकित अनेक एल्बम, स्कोरिंग a शीर्ष 40 hit साथ `` ( थीम From ) New York, New York `` in 1980.
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base, he toured दोनो भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और internationally, जबतक a छोटी समय पहले his death in 1998.
Sinatra also forged a अत्यधिक कामयाब करियर as a फिल्मी actor.
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953, he भी garnered a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये the man साथ the सुनहरी भुजा, और नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके performance in The Manchurian Candidate.
He also starred in such musicals as ऊँची समाज, pal जॉय, यारों और डॉल और on the कस्बा.
Sinatra थी सम्मानित at the कैनेडी बीच honors in 1983 और थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता by रोनाल्ड Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997.
He was the प्राप्तकर्ता of ग्यारह ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, सहित the ग्रैमी trustees पुरस्कार, ग्रैमी Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling कलाकारों of सब समय, having बेची अधिक than 150 लाख copies worldwide.
ठेठ cornhole board
Cornhole, also known as bean bag toss, मकई टॉस, baggo or बैग, is a लॉन खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी लो turns फेंकना मकई छेद बैग at a उठाया मंच साथ a hole in the far end.
A bag in the छेद स्कोर 3 अंक, जबकि एक on the मंच scores 1 point.
खेल continues जबतक a टोली or खिलाड़ी reaches the score of 21.
The अमरीकी सुनहरा त्रिभुज is an आधिकारिक सुनहरा bullion सिक्का of the United States.
Authorized under the Gold bullion सिक्का अधिनियम of 1985, it थी पहला released by the संयुक्त States Mint in 1986.
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha योग तकनीकों और popularized शुरूआत in the early 1970s.
All Bikram Yoga classes चलाएं लिये 90 मिनट्स और consist of the वही श्रेणी of 26 postures और 2 श्वास exercises.
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a रूम heated to 105°f ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 %,.
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, हास्य और rapper बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये अभिनीत as माइकल barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101.
Massey has received many awards and नामांकन सहित a यंग कलाकार पुरस्कार और एमी पुरस्कार nominations.
He is also known for appearing in अनेक commercials in the early 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon बना of बेदाग स्टील.
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring यंत्र, as खूब as a ईकाई of मापन of आवाज़ in कुछ countries and customs.
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 प्रजाति of पौधे belonging to the वनस्पति समूह known as Pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, they have xylem and फ्लोएम ( बनाना उन्हें vascular plants ).
They have stems, पत्ते, और जड़ें जैसे अन्य vascular plants.
Ferns reproduce via बीजाणुओं और have neither बीज nor flowers.
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, लकिन ferns as पारिभाषित यहाँ ( भी पुकारा monilophytes ) शामिल horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
The term pteridophyte भी refers to ferns और a few अन्य बीजरहित vascular पौधे ( देखिए वर्गीकरण section below ).
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million सालो पहले in the carboniferous लकिन अनेक of the वर्तमान परिवारों और प्रजाति किया नहीं appear जबतक roughly 145 लाख सालो पहले in the जल्दी cretaceous ( बाद flowering पौधे came to dominate many environments ).
Ferns are not of major economic importance, but some are grown or gathered for food, as शोभायमान पौधे, लिये remediating contaminated soils, और have महरूम the विषय of शोध लिये उनके क्षमता to हटाएँ कुछ रासायनिक प्रदूषक इससे the air.
कुछ हैं significant weeds.
They also play a role in mythology, आयुर्विज्ञान, और art.
Flat roofs in इसराईल
Flat छत in लॉस एंजिल्स
A चपटा छत is a प्रकार of covering for a building.
In contrast to the more sloped रूप of छत, a चपटा छत is आड़ा or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are ज्ञात as low-pitch roofs ( as the कोण of ढलान increases, so the pitch is said to increase ).
Any sheet of सामग्री प्रयुक्त to कवर a चपटा or low-pitched छत is प्रायः ज्ञात as a झिल्ली और the प्राथमिक purpose of ये झिल्लियों is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the जल to चलाएं बंद इससे a पतला inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water from some flat roofs such as on गार्डन sheds sometimes बहती freely बंद the किनारे of a छत, हालांकि gutter प्रणालियों हैं of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry.
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead जल सीधे onto the मैदान, or better, into a specially made soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs प्रायः सीसे जल into the rainwater नाले प्रणाली of any built up area.
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool, प्रायः लिये aesthetic उद्देश्य, or लिये rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs exist all over the संसार और प्रत्येक क्षेत्रफल रै इसके अपना परंपरा or वरीयता लिये सामग्री used.
In warmer climes where rainfall is कम और जमने is असंभावित to occur, अनेक चपटा roofs हैं बस निर्मित of चिनाई or कंक्रीट और इस is शुभ at keeping आउट the ऊष्मा of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available.
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak, or where water soaked into the brickwork could फ्रीज to बर्फ और यूँ सीसे to 'blowing ' ( तोड़कर up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable.
traditionally सबसे चपटा roofs in the पश्चिमी संसार मेक उपयोग of तारकोल or अधिक usually tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat, UV किरणें और मौसम बंद it और helps protect it इससे cracking or blistering and degradation.
Roof अलंकार is प्रायः of प्लाईवुड, chipboard or osb फलक ( osb = उन्मुख strand फलक, भी ज्ञात as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness.
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid, heated in a tar केतली, or as चादरें of तारकोल impregnated 'paper ' चिपके bas और sealed साथ at joints by hot तारकोल - एकबार it रै cooled, the gravel is spread evenly over it.
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or कार्यक्रम कारण the बजरी to be स्थानांतरित or removed इससे the तारकोल or tarpaper waterproofing, यूँ exposing it to मौसम और सूर्य whereupon cracking और blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in.
Tarpaper is प्रायः a 'paper ' or fibre सामग्री soaked or impregnated in tar.
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands, tarpaper विसंगतियाँ हैं उत्पादित साथ ठीक बजरी लागू to the hot तारकोल दौरान the प्रक्रम of manufacture ऐसे कि a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection.
tarpapers vary in विशेषता as करता the कारीगरी और प्रशिक्षण of those applying it to produce more or less successful results.
In कुछ सूक्ष्म climates or छायांकित क्षेत्रों ये बल्कि 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can पिछला खूब in संबंध to the लागत of सामग्री purchase and cost of laying them, however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable.
There are now अधिक firms supplying आधुनिक विकल्प और वहीँ is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability.
If a leak does occur on a चपटा छत तब क्षति प्रायः goes unnoticed लिये long अवधि of समय दौरान जिससे जल penetrates and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it.
This can lead to महंगी क्षति इससे the दुर्गन्ध जिससे प्रायः develops और if बाएँ can weaken the roof structure.
There are also various स्वास्थ्य risks to लोगों और पशु श्वास the सांचे बीजाणुओं : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point.
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does घुस the अवरोध covering ( be it परंपरागत or a आधुनिक झिल्ली ) it can सफर a long रास्ता पहले causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen.
Thus it is not easy to see where it is टपकती in अनुक्रम to मरम्मत it.
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further संग्रहण or puddling of जल in कि क्षेत्रफल और the प्रॉब्लम worsens.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क which contains data.
The name is an एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only मेमोरी ``.
Computers can read cd-roms, लकिन can नहीं लिखें on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to वितरित कंप्यूटर तन्त्र, सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया अनुप्रयोग, हालांकि any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player, जबकि आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as तन्त्र or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is तभी usable on a कंप्यूटर ( ऐसे as आईएसओ 9660 स्वरूप pc CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the तकनीकी मानक कि defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
एक of a नियत of color-bound किताबे कि contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप, the पीला किताब, निर्मित by Sony and Philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the स्वरूप to थाम कोई रूप of data.
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 July 1965 ), कलम नाम J. K. रोलिंग, is a अंग्रेजों उपन्यासकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the लेखक of the हैरी कुम्हार fantasy series.
The कुम्हार किताबे have gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान, जीती अनेक पुरस्कार, और sold more than 400 million copies.
They have become the best-selling किताब श्रेणी in इतिहास, और महरूम the आधार लिये a श्रेणी of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history.
Rowling had overall approval on the स्क्रिप्ट as खूब as maintaining रचनात्मक कंट्रोल by सेवारत as a producer on the final instalment.
Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, Rowling was working as a शोधकर्ता और दुभाषिया सचिव लिये माफ़ी अंतरराष्ट्रीय जब वो conceived the विचार लिये the हैरी कुम्हार श्रेणी on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990.
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother, divorce from her first husband and poverty जबतक रोलिंग समाप्त the पहला अनोखा in the श्रेणी, हैरी कुम्हार और the पारस 's स्टोन ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently प्रकाशित 6 sequels—the पिछला, हैरी कुम्हार और the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) —as खूब as 3 supplements to the series.
In 2012, Rowling parted with her agency and resumed लिखने in the रूप of a tragicomedy अनोखा aimed at वयस्क readership, हकदार the Casual Vacancy.
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed for adults, the other for children younger than the हैरी कुम्हार दर्शक, और वो expects the latter to be published first.
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` जीवन स्टोरी, in जिससे वो progressed इससे जीना on राज्य लाभ to multi-millionaire status within five years.
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling लेखक चूंकि रिकॉर्ड began, साथ बिक्री in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times समृद्ध सूची अनुमानित रोलिंग 's सौभाग्य at £560 लाख ( $ 798 लाख ), रैंकिंग उसके as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom.
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth सबसे शक्तिशाली हस्ती of 2007, और समय पत्रिका नामित उसके as a runner-up लिये इसके 2007 व्यक्ति of the साल, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fans.
In October 2010, Rowling was नामित the `` सबसे influential स्त्री in ब्रिटेन '' by अग्रणी magazine editors.
वो रै become a notable लोकसेवक, supporting ऐसे धर्मार्थ as कॉमिक राहत, एक जनक परिवारों, Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ).
Auburndale is a city in polk काउंटी, फ्लोरिडा, संयुक्त राज्य.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,032 at the 2000 census.
According to the u.s जनसांख्यिकी estimates of 2005, the नगर था a जनसांख्यिकी of 12,381.
It is part of the lakeland – शीत हेवन महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
hurricane इसाबेल ( 2003 ) as देखी इससे कक्षा दौरान expedition 7 of the International Space Station.
The नजर, eyewall, और surrounding rainbands, characteristics of tropical cyclones, are clearly visible in this view from space.
A तीव्र चक्रवात is a तूफ़ान प्रणाली characterized by a low-pressure बीच घिरी by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain.
Tropical cyclones strengthen जब जल काफूर इससे the समंदर is released as the संतृप्त एयर उदय, resulting in संघनन of water vapor contained in the moist air.
They are fueled by a अलग ऊष्मा यांत्रिकी than अन्य cyclonic windstorms ऐसे as nor'easters, European windstorms, and polar lows.
The characteristic that separates तीव्र cyclones इससे अन्य cyclonic प्रणालियों is कि at कोई ऊँचाई in the माहौल, the बीच of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems.
The term `` tropical '' refers दोनो to the भौगोलिक उत्पत्ति of ये प्रणालियों, जिससे प्रायः रूप in तीव्र regions of the ग्लोब, और to their formation in maritime tropical air masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such तूफ़ान ' cyclonic प्रकृति, साथ counterclockwise हवा प्रवाह in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere.
The opposite direction of the हवा प्रवाह is a परिणाम of the कॉरिऑलिस force.
Depending on its location and strength, a तीव्र चक्रवात is referred to by names ऐसे as hurricane (, ), तूफ़ान ( ), तीव्र तूफ़ान, cyclonic तूफ़ान, तीव्र depression, and simply cyclone.
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely शक्तिशाली हवाएँ और मूसलाधार बरसात, वे हैं भी समर्थ to उपज ऊँची लहरें, damaging तूफ़ान surge, and tornadoes.
They develop over विशाल लाशें of गरम जल, और खोना उनके शक्ति if वे मूव over land due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source.
इस is क्यों तटीय regions can प्राप्त significant क्षति इससे a तीव्र चक्रवात, जबकि inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can produce significant flooding अंतर्देशीय, और तूफ़ान surges can उपज extensive तटीय बाढ़ up to इससे the तटरेखा.
Although their effects on human populations can be विनाशकारी, तीव्र cyclones can relieve drought conditions.
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward शीतोष्ण latitudes, जिससे makes उन्हें an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the वैश्विक atmospheric circulation mechanism.
As a result, tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल, और to maintain a अपेक्षाकृत stable और गरम तापमान worldwide.
Many tropical cyclones develop when the वायुमंडलीय शर्तें around a कमजोर disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable.
The background पर्यावरण is modulated by climatological चक्र और पैटर्न ऐसे as the Madden-Julian oscillation, El Niño-Southern Oscillation, and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation.
अन्य रूप जब अन्य प्रकार of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics.
Tropical systems are तब स्थानांतरित by परिचालन हवाएँ in the क्षोभमण्डल ; if the शर्तें remain अनुकूल, the तीव्र disturbance intensifies, and can even develop an eye.
On the other end of the वर्णक्रम, if the शर्तें around the प्रणाली deteriorate or the तीव्र चक्रवात makes landfall, the प्रणाली weakens and eventually dissipates.
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of ये प्रणालियों साथ वर्तमान प्रौद्योगिकी.
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; दिसम्बर 9, 1916 ) is an अमरीकी स्टेज और फिल्मी कर्ता, फिल्मी निर्माता और author.
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ), Champion ( 1949 ), Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ), The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ), 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ), Lust for Life ( 1956 ), Paths of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the o.k. corral ( 1957 ), the वाइकिंग्स ( 1958 ), स्पार्टाकस ( 1960 ), निर्जन हैं the वीर ( 1962 ), सात दिनों in may ( 1964 ), The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ).
He is no.17 on the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's सूची of the महानतम पुरूष अमरीकी स्क्रीन महापुरूष of सब समय, making him the highest-ranked living person on the list.
in 1996, he प्राप्त the अकादमी मानद पुरस्कार `` लिये 50 सालो as a creative and moral force in the motion picture community. ''
He is one of the last surviving actors इससे हॉलीवुड 's `` सुनहरी आयु ''.
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born may 6, 1945 ) is an अमरीकी चट्टान और फेंकें singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally कामयाब detroit-area कलाकार, he performed और अंकित as bob seger and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s.
By the early 1970s, he था dropped the `` प्रणाली '' इससे उसके रिकार्डिंग और जारी to नीयत for broader success with other various bands.
In 1973, he put together the चांदी गोली बैंड, a समूह of detroit-area संगीतकारों, साथ जिसको he became सबसे कामयाब on the नेशनल स्तर साथ the album Live Bullet, recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit, Michigan.
In 1976, he हासिल a नेशनल ब्रेकआउट साथ the स्टुडियो एल्बम Night Moves.
On his studio albums, he also worked extensively साथ the alabama-based मांसपेशी shoals लय खण्ड, जिससे appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
A roots rocker साथ a क्लासिक raspy, चिल्लाना आवाज़, seger लिखा और अंकित गीतों कि dealt साथ प्रेम, महिलाओं, blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock.
Seger has recorded many hits, including `` Night Moves, '' `` Turn the Page, '' `` we 've मिला tonight, '' `` विरूद्ध the हवा, '' और shakedown कि थी लिखा लिये बेवर्ली पहाड़ियाँ cop ii और `` जैसे a चट्टान, '' और भी co-wrote the ईगल्स ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
उसके iconic रिकॉर्डिंग of `` बूढ़ा समय चट्टान और फेंकें `` थी नामित one of the Songs of the Century in 2001.
With a career spanning पाँच दशकों, seger continues to perform और रिकार्ड आज.
seger थी inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( जनवरी 9, 1913 – अप्रैल 22, 1994 ) थी the 37th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon had previously परोसा as a रिपब्लिकन u.S. प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in yorba लिंडा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of विधि in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat निक्सन, स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य लिये the संघीय सरकारी in 1942.
He subsequently परोसा in the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी दौरान World War II.
Nixon थी निर्वाचित in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his प्रतिष्ठा as a अग्रणी anti-communist, और elevated उसे to national prominence.
he थी the कार्यशील mate of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served लिये आठ सालो as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 1960, narrowly खोने to जॉन F. कैनेडी, and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी और थी elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the वियतनाम युद्ध, he subsequently ended u.S. भागीदारी in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the दो राष्ट्र, और he initiated détente और the anti-ballistic मिसाइल सन्धि साथ the सोवियत Union the same year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs, imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी स्कूलों, और स्थापित the पर्यावरणीय Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the चंद्र अवतरण शुरूआत साथ अपोलो 11, he scaled वापस manned space exploration.
He was re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of his vice president, Spiro Agnew, and a continuing श्रेणी of खुलासे परिचय the वाटरगेट कांड और अन्य misconduct by सदस्यों of the प्रशासन.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the फेस of लगभग निश्चित महाभियोग and removal from office.
बाद उसके इस्तीफा, he controversially प्राप्त a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
In रिटायरमेंट, निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक books and undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
He suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18, 1994, और died चार दिनों later at the age of 81.
{ { infobox सीनेटर
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused कड़वा contention between अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट और Sen. Sumner.
ब्रैडी 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner, opposed to American साम्राज्यवाद in the caribbean और fearful कि annexation होता सीसे to the conquest of the neighboring ब्लैक गणतंत्र of हैती, became कायल कि भ्रष्टाचार lay पीछे the सन्धि, और कि मेन बंद to the अध्यक्ष shared in the corruption.
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, sen. sumner initially withheld उसके राय on the सन्धि on जनवरी 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from सहायक सचिव of राज्य, bancroft डेविस, कि u.s. नवल जहाजों were being used to protect President Báez.
sen. sumner 's कमेटी voted विरूद्ध annexation और at sen. sumner’s सुझाव और काफी संभवतः to सहेजें the पार्टी from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session.
President Grant persisted और भेजा संदेश to कॉंग्रेस in एहसान of annexation on कूच 14, 1870, and May 31, 1870.
In closed session, Sen. Sumner spoke out विरूद्ध the सन्धि ; warnng कि वहीँ होता be परेशानी साथ the विदेशी नागरिकों, noting the दीर्घकालिक विद्रोह that took place on the island, and the risk that the independence of Haiti, recognized by the United States in 1862, would be lost.
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a प्रोटेक्टोरेट थी a उल्लंघन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि और असंवैधानिक.
आखिरकार, on जून 30, 1870 the सन्धि थी voted on by the सीनेट और विफल to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage.
The following day, President Grant, feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of sumner’s बंद dost J. lothrop motley, दूत to ब्रिटेन.
By autumn, Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge, and he blamed the सचिव of राज्य लिये failing to have resigned, rather than let Grant have his way.
The two मेन, मित्रों जबतक तब, cooled into bitter enemies.
In December, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire सेंटो डोमिंगो somehow, sumner दिया a fiercely नाजुक वाक accusing the अध्यक्ष of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, President Grant, supported by his Secretary of State हैमिल्टन मछली, था initiated a अभियान to depose sumner इससे the अध्यक्षता of the सीनेट विदेशी संबंध कमेटी.
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '', in addition to having रोका ग्रान्ट 's डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र सन्धि attempt, sumner था पराजित ग्रान्ट 's पूरा repeal of the कार्यकाल of दफ्तर अधिनियम, अवरोधित ग्रान्ट 's नामांकन of सिकंदर स्टीवर्ट to u.S. सचिव of राजकोष, और महरूम a निरंतर harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go.
Grant resented sumner 's बड़प्पन of manner, as well.
Told once that Sumner किया नहीं मानना in the बाइबल, the अध्यक्ष is supposed to have कहा कि he थी नहीं surprised : `` he did n't write it. ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased, sumner’s स्वास्थ्य began to मनाही.
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4, 1871, सीनेटरों संबद्ध साथ अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट, ज्ञात as ‘’new radicals’’ voted to oust sen. sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship.
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a रूप of लागू आचार or पेशेवर आचार कि examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment.
It applies to all पहलुओं of कारोबार conduct और is प्रासंगिक to the conduct of individuals और entire organizations.
Business ethics has दोनो normative और वर्णनात्मक आयाम.
As a कॉरपोरेट अभ्यास और a करियर specialization, the field is primarily normative.
Academics attempting to understand कारोबार बर्ताव employ वर्णनात्मक विधि.
The range and quantity of कारोबार नैतिक मुद्दे reflects the बातचीत of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.
Interest in business आचार त्वरित dramatically दौरान the 1980s और 1990s, दोनो भीतर प्रमुख corporations and within academia.
For example, today most प्रमुख corporations प्रचार उनके प्रतिबद्धता to non-economic मान अंतर्गत headings ऐसे as आचार कोड और सोशल responsibility charters.
Adam Smith said, `` People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment और diversion, लकिन the वार्तालाप ends in a षड्यंत्र विरूद्ध the पब्लिक, or in कुछ contrivance to raise prices. ''
Governments use laws and regulations to पाइंट कारोबार बर्ताव in what they perceive to be beneficial directions.
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and विवरण of बर्ताव कि झूठ परे सरकारी कंट्रोल.
The emergence of large corporations with limited संबंध और संवेदनशीलता to the समुदायों in जिससे वे operate त्वरित the विकास of औपचारिक आचार regimes.
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or स्किन caused by ऊष्मा, विद्युत, रसायन, घर्षण, or radiation.
Most burns affect only the सतही स्किन ( ज्ञात as सतही or पहला उपाधि ) or extend into the deeper स्किन लकिन do नहीं involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ).
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues, such as muscle or अस्थि can be घायल in जिससे मामला the बर्न is either पूरा मोटाई ( तीसरा उपाधि ) or fourth degree.
The treatment जरूरी depends on the गंभीरता of the burn.
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than सरल पीड़ा हत्यारे जबकि प्रमुख burns may आवश्यकता prolonged उपचार in specialized burn centers.
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if एक्सपोज़र is prolonged it may परिणाम in कम देह तापमान.
Partial thickness burns may आवश्यकता सफ़ाई साथ साबुन और जल followed by dressings.
फफोले चाहिए typically be बाएँ unbroken.
Full thickness burns usually require सर्जिकल उपचार ऐसे as स्किन कलम और extensive burns प्रायः आवश्यकता large amount of intravenous fluids.
The most common जटिलताओं of burns हैं सम्बन्धित to संक्रमण.
While large burns can be fatal, आधुनिक उपचार विकसित in the पिछला 50 सालो have significantly improved the outcomes, especially in children and young adults.
Globally about 11 million people तलाश चिकित्सा उपचार और 300,000 लोगों die from burns.
In the United States, of those admitted to a बर्न बीच, लगभग 4 % die इससे their injuries.
The long term outcome is primarily सम्बन्धित to the आकार of बर्न और the आयु of the person effected.
The Atlantic Ocean, नहीं सहित आर्कटिक और अंटार्कटिक regions
इस वीडियो थी लिया by the क्रू of Expedition 29 on board the ISS.
The pass starts from just north-east of the Island of Newfoundland over the North अटलांटिक समंदर to सेंट्रल अफ़्रीकी, over दक्षिण Sudan.
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the संसार 's oceanic विभाजन.
With a total क्षेत्रफल of परिचय, it कवर लगभग 20 प्रतिशत of the धरती 's सतह और परिचय 29 percent of its water surface area.
The first part of its नाम refers to एटलस of यूनानी mythology, बनाना the अटलांटिक the `` समुद्र of Atlas ''.
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The histories of हिरोडोटस around 450 bc ( hdt. 1.202.4 ) : अटलांटिस थलैसा ( यूनानी : ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; अंग्रेज़ी : समुद्र of Atlas ).
The term Ethiopic Ocean, derived from Ethiopia, थी लागू to the दक्षिणी अटलांटिक as लेट as the mid-19th सदी.
Before Europeans discovered अन्य महासागर, the पद `` समंदर '' itself थी synonymous साथ the waters परे the जलसन्धि of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic.
The जल्दी यूनानियों believed इस समंदर to be a gigantic नदी encircling the world.
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, s-shaped जलाशय extending longitudinally between यूरेशिया और अफ़्रीकी to the ईस्ट, and the Americas to the west.
As one component of the interconnected global ocean, it is connected in the north to the आर्कटिक समंदर ( जिससे is sometimes माना a समुद्र of the अटलांटिक ), to the प्रशांत समंदर in the दक्षिणपश्चिम, the भारतीय समंदर in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
( अन्य परिभाषाएं describe the अटलांटिक as extending southward to Antarctica. )
The equator subdivides it into the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर और दक्षिण अटलांटिक Ocean.
Due to their long-term persistence, and the need for a unique पहचानकर्ता in issuing forecasts और चेतावनियाँ, तीव्र cyclones और उपोष्ण cyclones हैं दिए names according to नीति ( see Tropical cyclone naming ).
the following हैं सूचियाँ इससे जिससे these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are derived.
White light is dispersed by a प्रिज़्म into the रंगों of the ऑप्टिकल वर्णक्रम.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम कि is दृश्य to ( can be detected by ) the human eye.
इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण in इस दायरा of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light.
A ठेठ इंसान नजर होगा respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm.
In terms of आवृत्ति, इस corresponds to a बैंड in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
A light-adapted नजर generally रै इसके अधिकतम संवेदनशीलता at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ), in the ग्रीन प्रदेश of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ).
The spectrum does not, however, contain सब the रंगों कि the इंसान आँखें और दिमाग can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors such as pink, or जामुनी विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as magenta, हैं अनुपस्थित, लिये उदाहरण, क्युकी वे can be बना तभी by a mix of multiple wavelengths.
Colors containing तभी एक wavelength हैं भी called pure colors.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` ऑप्टिकल खिड़की ``, the प्रदेश of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम जिससे allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere.
An example of this phenomenon is कि साफ एयर scatters ब्लू लाइट अधिक than रेड wavelengths, और so the midday sky appears blue.
The optical window is भी पुकारा the दृश्य खिड़की क्युकी it overlaps the human visible response spectrum.
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just आउट of the इंसान दृष्टि, as खूब as the मीडियम wavelength ir ( mwir ) खिड़की और the long wavelength or दूर इन्फ्रारेड ( lwir or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them.
अनेक प्रजाति can देखिए लाइट साथ बारंबारता बाहर the `` दृश्य वर्णक्रम, '' जिससे is defined in terms of human vision.
मधुमक्खियों और अनेक अन्य कीट can detect पराबैंगनी लाइट, which helps them find nectar in flowers.
Plant प्रजाति कि निर्भर on कीट परागण may owe reproductive कामयाबी to उनके रूप in पराबैंगनी लाइट, rather than how colorful they appear to humans.
Birds, too, can देखिए into the पराबैंगनी ( 300–400 nm ), और कुछ have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range.
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range, however, can नहीं देखिए रेड लाइट or कोई अन्य reddish wavelengths.
Bees ' दृश्य वर्णक्रम ends at परिचय 590nm, बस पहले the orange wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can see कुछ रेड wavelengths, लकिन नहीं as अनेक as humans.
Zebras ( or ) are several प्रजाति of अफ़्रीकी equids ( घोड़ा परिवार ) संयुक्त by उनके distinctive black and white stripes.
उनके धारियाँ आइये in अलग पैटर्न, unique to each individual.
They are generally सोशल पशु कि सजीव in छोटी harems to large herds.
Unlike उनके closest रिश्तेदारों, घोड़े और asses, zebras have never महरूम truly domesticated.
There are तीन प्रजाति of zebras : the मैदान zebra, the Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra.
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus hippotigris, लकिन grévy 's जेब्रा is the एकमात्र प्रजाति of subgenus dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an गधा, to जिससे it is closely सम्बन्धित, जबकि the पूर्व two are more horse-like.
सब तीन belong to the genus equus, along with other living equids.
The unique stripes of zebras मेक उन्हें एक of the पशु सबसे परिचित to people.
They occur in a variety of habitats, ऐसे as grasslands, savannas, वुडलैंड्स, thorny scrublands, mountains, and coastal hills.
However, various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations, in particular शिकार लिये खालें और आवास विनाश.
Grévy 's zebra and the mountain जेब्रा हैं endangered.
While plains zebras are much more plentiful, one subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the late 19th century – हालांकि वहीँ is फिलहाल a योजना, पुकारा the quagga प्रोजेक्ट, कि aims to नस्ल zebras कि हैं phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back.
Barry White, born Barry यूजीन कार्टर ( – ), थी an अमरीकी composer and singer-songwriter.
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for उसके distinctive बास आवाज़ और रोमांटिक चित्र, श्वेत 's महानतम कामयाबी आए in the 1970s as a सोलो सिंगर और साथ the प्रेम असीमित ऑर्केस्ट्रा, crafting अनेक enduring आत्मा, दुर्गंध, और डिस्को गीतों ऐसे as उसके दो biggest हिट्स, `` तुम 're the पहला, the पिछला, my Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe. ''
Along with इसहाक़ हेज़, श्वेत is माना by allmusic.com as a पायोनियर of disco music in the early 1970s.
During the course of his career in the म्यूज़िक कारोबार, श्वेत हासिल 106 सुनहरा एल्बम विश्वव्यापी, 41 of जिससे भी attained platinum status.
White had 20 gold and 10 प्लेटिनम singles, साथ विश्वव्यापी बिक्री in excess of 100 लाख, according to आलोचकों Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan.
His influences included Rev. James Cleveland, Ray चार्ल्स, एरीथा फ्रैंकलिन प्लस motown कलाकारों the supremes, the चार टॉप और मारविन Gaye.
Angelina जोली (, born एंजेलीना जोली वोइट ; जून 4, 1975 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, film director, and screenwriter.
She has received an Academy Award, two Screen Actors गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, और थी नामित हॉलीवुड 's highest-paid अभिनेत्री by फोर्ब्स in 2009 और 2011.
जोली promotes humanitarian कल्याणकारी, और is विख्यात लिये उसके कार्य साथ शरणार्थियों as a खास envoy और पूर्व साख Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ).
She has often been cited as the world 's `` सबसे खूबसूरत '' स्त्री, a शीर्षक लिये जिससे वो रै प्राप्त substantial media attention.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father jon वोइट in lookin ' to मिलेंगी आउट ( 1982 ), लकिन उसके फिल्मी करियर began in सच्चाई a दशक बाद साथ the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her first leading role in a major film थी in the cyber-thriller हैकर्स ( 1995 ).
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical टेलीविज़न films जार्ज वालेस ( 1997 ) और gia ( 1998 ), और जीती an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl, Interrupted ( 1999 ).
Jolie achieved चौड़ी कीर्ति बाद उसके portrayal of वीडियो खेल नायिका लारा क्रॉफ्ट in लारा क्रॉफ्ट : मकबरा रेडर ( 2001 ), और स्थापित herself among the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in हॉलीवुड with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ).
She continued her action star career with Mr. & mrs. स्मिथ ( 2005 ) और चाही ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated वाणिज्यिक सफलताओं to date—and प्राप्त further नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the dramas a mighty दिल ( 2007 ) और changeling ( 2008 ), जिससे earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress.
Jolie बना उसके directorial डेब्यू साथ the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ).
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton, जोली अभी जीवनदान साथ कर्ता ब्रैड pitt, in a संबंध notable लिये fervent मीडिया attention.
Jolie and Pitt have तीन biological children और तीन adopted children.
A प्राकृतिक मेहराब उत्पादित by the अपरदन of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz, Jordan
Erosion is the प्रक्रम by जिससे मृदा और चट्टान हैं removed इससे the धरती 's सतह by exogenetic प्रक्रियाओं such as wind or water flow, and then transported and deposited in other locations.
While erosion is a natural process, human activities have increased by 10-40 टाइम्स the रेट at जिससे अपरदन is occurring globally.
Excessive erosion causes problems such as desertification, decreases in agricultural उत्पादकता due to जमीन degradation, sedimentation of जलमार्गों, और ecological पतन due to घाटा of the nutrient rich upper soil layers.
Water and wind erosion are now the दो प्राथमिक कल्याणकारी of जमीन degradation ; संयुक्त, वे हैं जिम्मेदार लिये 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems.
Industrial agriculture, deforestation, roads, anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl हैं amongst the सबसे significant इंसान क्रियाएँ in लिहाज़ to उनके प्रभाव on stimulating erosion.
However, there are many available alternative land use practices कि can काटना or सीमा अपरदन, ऐसे as छत -building, no-till agriculture, and revegetation of denuded soils.
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on एमटीवी इससे दिसम्बर 3, 2009 to दिसम्बर 20, 2012 in the United States.
The series फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of आठ housemates बिता उनके गर्मियाँ at the जर्सी Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold पूर्वोत्तर शीत to मियामी बीच, साथ ऋतु 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
The चौथी ऋतु, फिल्माया in इटली, premiered on August 4, 2011.
The दिखाएँ लौटे लिये a पांचवां ऋतु, at Seaside Heights on January 5, 2012.
The पांचवां ऋतु finale aired on March 15, 2012.
On March 19, 2012, MTV पुष्टि कि the श्रेणी होता वापसी लिये their sixth season.
On अगस्त 30, 2012, एमटीवी घोषित कि the श्रेणी होगा समाप्त बाद the छठे season, which premiered on October 4.
The series finale aired on दिसम्बर 20, 2012.
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / guidette, '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes, और scrutiny इससे स्थानीय क्युकी the डाल सदस्यों were not residents of the area.
The series garnered रिकार्ड दरजा लिये एमटीवी, बनाना it the संजाल 's सबसे viewed series telecast ever.
The series ' डाल have भी महरूम credited साथ introducing अद्वितीय lexicon and phrases into American popular culture.
The University of Chicago and the विश्वविद्यालयों of ओक्लाहोमा हैं among the शैक्षणिक संस्थानों कि have था वर्ग or सम्मेलनों परिचय the दिखाएँ.
In 2010, the cast of Jersey Shore was named on बारबरा walters ' 10 सबसे fascinating लोगों सूची, और the श्रेणी रै चूंकि महरूम exported to दर्जनों of देशों worldwide.
There are several remakes of the show in अन्य देशों, साथ दो नियत in the संयुक्त किंगडम ; the खूब ज्ञात geordie shore, नियत in न्यूकैसल upon Tyne, England.
The other is The Valleys, the वेल्श समतुल्य, जिससे is फिल्माया और नियत in Cardiff.
The only other official रीमेक of the दिखाएँ is gandía shore, नियत in gandía, स्पेन.
सही
United States territory is कोई extent of प्रदेश अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of the संघीय government of the United States, including all waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all U.S. Naval vessels.
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign अधिकारों लिये exploring, exploiting, conserving, और मैनेजिंग its territory.
This extent of territory is सब the क्षेत्रफल belonging to, और अंतर्गत the डोमिनियन of, the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी ( जिससे शामिल tracts lying at a अलहदा from the country ) for administrative and other purposes.
the संयुक्त राज्य कुल territory शामिल a उपसमुच्चय of राजनैतिक divisions.
The U.S. government is a सरकारी साथ प्रतिनिधित्व शक्तियां अंतर्गत the संयुक्त States Constitution.
`` The powers not delegated to the संयुक्त राज्य by the संविधान, nor निषिद्ध by it to the राज्य, हैं सुरक्षित to the राज्य respectively, or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment.
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 विज्ञान fiction कार्रवाई फिल्मी निर्देशित by जोनाथन mostow और अभिनीत अर्नाल्ड श्वार्ज़नेगर, उपनाम stahl, क्लेयर danes और Kristanna Loken.
It is the दूसरी sequel to the टर्मिनेटर ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to kill सारा connor पहले उसके बेटे is born और to मार जॉन खुद as a चाइल्ड, it भेजना वापस another टर्मिनेटर, the T-X, in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible.
This includes John 's future wife, but नहीं जॉन खुद as उसके whereabouts हैं अनजान to स्काईनेट.
John 's जीवन is लगाई in खतरे जब the t-x accidentally finds him.
A cord of लकडी
the cord is a ईकाई of माप of शुष्क आवाज़ used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood.
A cord is the amount of wood that, when `` ranked and खूब stowed '' ( arranged so टुकड़े हैं लकीर, समानांतर, छु और कॉम्पैक्ट ), occupies a volume of.
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high, long, and deep ; or कोई अन्य व्यवस्था of रैखिक माप कि yields the वही volume.
The name cord probably आता इससे the उपयोग of a cord or स्ट्रिंग to measure it.
the, is an 8-bit हैंडहेल्ड वीडियो खेल यंत्र developed and manufactured by Nintendo.
It was released in Japan on, in उत्तर अमेरिका in, और in यूरोपीय on.
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line, and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & विकास 1 —the वही स्टाफ जो था designed the खेल & देखें श्रेणी as खूब as अनेक लोकप्रिय खेल लिये the निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली.
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 और 1998, in the रूप of खेल लड़के जेब, और खेल लड़के लाइट ( जापानी तभी ), respectively.
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the खेल & देखें श्रेणी introduced in, और it संयुक्त सुविधाएँ इससे दोनो the निन्टेंडो entertainment System and Game & Watch.
It was originally bundled साथ the पहेली खेल टेट्रिस.
As part of the चौथी पीढी of गेमिंग, the खेल लड़के competed साथ the sega खेल Gear, Atari Lynx, and the TurboExpress.
despite ये अन्य technologically श्रेष्ठ हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the Game Boy was a tremendous success.
The Game Boy और इसके successor, the खेल लड़के रंग, have दोनो संयुक्त बेची 118.69 million units worldwide.
Upon its release in the United States, it बेची इसके संपूर्ण शिपमेंट of एक लाख इकाई within weeks.
The संसार व्यापार बीच is a जटिल of इमारतें अंतर्गत निर्माण in निम्नतर मैनहटन, नई यॉर्क City, United States, replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site.
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers, जिससे खोली on अप्रैल 4, 1973 और यहूद नष्ट in the सितंबर 11 हमले of 2001, along with 7 World Trade Center.
The other इमारतें in the जटिल यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त in the हमले, और their ruins were eventually demolished.
The site is being rebuilt with five नई skyscrapers और a मेमोरियल to those मारे in the हमले.
, only one skyscraper रै महरूम समाप्त ; the अन्य चार हैं अपेक्षित to be समाप्त before 2020.
One World Trade Center होगा be the सीसे भवन लिये the नई जटिल, reaching अधिक than 100 stories at its completion.
It became the tallest building in नई यॉर्क नगर on अप्रैल 30, 2012, और is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त by 2013.
A sixth tower is प्रतीक्षारत पुष्टि.
At the time of their completion, the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 संसार व्यापार बीच ( the दक्षिण मीनार ), ज्ञात collectively as the `` जुड़वा मीनारें '', यहूद the tallest buildings in the world.
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the मैरियट संसार व्यापार बीच ), 4 wtc, 5 wtc, 6 wtc, and 7 WTC.
All of ये इमारतें यहूद निर्मित between 1975 and 1985.
The cost for the निर्माण थी $ 400 लाख ( $ in dollars ).
The complex was located in the heart of New York City 's शहर वित्तीय ज़िला और contained 13.4 लाख वर्गाकार फीट ( 1.24 लाख m2 ) of office space.
The World Trade Center अनुभवी a आग on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 और a डकैती on, 1998.
In 1998, the बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार decided to privatize the संसार व्यापार बीच, पट्टे the इमारतें to a निजी company to manage, and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -संबद्धd hijackers उड़ाया दो बोइंग 767 jets into the जटिल, एक into प्रत्येक मीनार, in a coordinated terrorist attack.
After burning for 56 minutes, the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour बाद by the उत्तर मीनार ( 1 ), साथ the हमले on the संसार व्यापार बीच resulting in 2,753 deaths.
Falling debris from the towers, combined with fires that the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings, led to the आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब the अन्य इमारतें in the जटिल और caused अनर्थकारी damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area.
The प्रक्रम of क्लीनअप और रिकवरी at the संसार व्यापार बीच site took eight months.
Over the following सालो, योजनाएँ लिये a rebuilt संसार व्यापार Center took form.
The first new building at the site was 7 संसार व्यापार बीच, जिससे खोली in.
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ), स्थापित in to oversee the पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम, व्यवस्थित प्रतियोगिताओं to चुनें a साईट plan and memorial design.
मेमोरी मूलाधार, designed by डेनियल libeskind, थी चयनित as the निपुण योजना, but this went through substantial changes in design.
The new संसार व्यापार बीच जटिल होगा शामिल एक संसार व्यापार बीच, three other high-rise office towers, and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.
सैन जिबरील Mountains
San Bernardino kyu, साथ mt. सैन gorgonio in the अग्रभूमि और बिग भालू Lake in the background.
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया, in the प्रशांत coast सीमाएँ physiographic प्रदेश in उत्तर अमेरिका.
The अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ शुरू at the दक्षिणी समाप्त of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties.
They derive the नाम अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ due to उनके east-west अभिविन्यास, बनाना उन्हें अनुप्रस्थ to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains.
Periodic table साथ इलेक्ट्रॉन shells
An electron shell may be thought of as an कक्षा followed by electrons around an अणु 's nucleus.
The closest shell to the केंद्रक is पुकारा the `` 1 शेल '' ( भी पुकारा `` k शेल '' ), followed by the `` 2 शेल '' ( or `` l शेल '' ), तब the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ), and so on farther and farther from the nucleus.
The shell letters K, l, m,..., प्रयुक्त in the x-ray संकेतन, हैं alphabetical.
Each shell can contain only a फिक्स्ड क्रमांक of electrons : the 1st शेल can थाम up to दो electrons, the 2nd शेल can थाम up to eight electrons, the 3rd shell can hold up to 18, and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on.
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus, an atom 's electrons होगा generally occupy बाहरी शेल तभी if the अधिक भीतरी शेल have already महरूम completely भर by अन्य electrons.
However, this is not a strict requirement : अणु may have दो or भी तीन अधूरी outer shells.
( See madelung नियम लिये अधिक विवरण. )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in ये शेल देखिए इलेक्ट्रॉन विन्यास.
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or शेल ) determine the रासायनिक गुण of the अणु ; it is called the valence shell.
Each shell consists of एक or अधिक subshells, और प्रत्येक subshell consists of एक or अधिक परमाणु orbitals.
vickie lynn मार्शल ( née होगन ; नवम्बर 28, 1967 – फ़रवरी 8, 2007 ), ज्ञात by उसके moniker anna निकोल Smith, was an American model, actress, and television personality.
स्मिथ पहला gained लोकप्रियता in प्लेबॉय, बनने the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
She modeled लिये कपडे कंपनियाँ, सहित अंदाज़ा jeans and Lane Bryant.
Smith dropped आउट of ऊँची स्कूल और थी married in 1985.
Her अत्यधिक publicized दूसरी विवाह to आयल कारोबार mogul, J. हावर्ड मार्शल, 62 सालो उसके वरिष्ठ, resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money, which she denied.
following मार्शल 's मौत, स्मिथ began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate.
Her case, Marshall v. Marshall, reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of संघीय क्षेत्राधिकार, और again on a सवाल of दिवालियापन अदालत प्राधिकार ( अभी पुकारा Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a हॉलीवुड, फ्लोरिडा होटल रूम as a परिणाम of an overdose of नुस्खा दवाएँ.
भीतर the फाइनल छह महीने of उसके जीवन, स्मिथ थी the फ़ोकस of a नवीनीकृत दबायें कवरेज surrounding the मौत of उसके बेटे, डेनियल, and the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
The is one denomination of जापानी yen.
The current design was first minted in 1959 using जापानी वर्ण ज्ञात as the `` नई स्क्रिप्ट ``, और यहूद भी minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters.
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when, due to the much उच्चतर मान of the येन, वे यहूद minted in gold ).
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing आउट of the जल, साथ `` पाँच येन '' लिखा in कांजी ; the वापस is stamped साथ `` जापानी '' और the साल of समस्या, भी in कांजी, अलग by sprouts of a tree.
The three graphic elements of the coin represent कृषि और fisheries, the कुंजी तत्व of the जापानी first-sector economy.
Around a hole, वहीँ is a गियर कि represents उद्योग.
It is the only Japanese coin in परिसंचरण to कमी अरबी numerals on either face.
TLC is an American लड़की समूह जिनकी रंगमंडल spanned r & b, हिप हॉप, आत्मा, दुर्गंध, और new jack swing.
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` t-boz '' वाटकिंस, rapper लिसा `` बाएँ नजर '' lopes और सिंगर rozonda `` chilli '' थामस, the समूह मिला unprecedented कामयाबी in the 1990s जबकि also enduring a series of spats with the law, each other, and the group 's record label.
Initially, tlc हासिल वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी following the रिलीज of their debut album Ooooooohhh...
On the tlc टिप, जिससे बेची 6 लाख copies worldwide.
however, it थी उनके दूसरी एल्बम, crazysexycool, कि catapulted the group to superstar status.
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified डायमंड by the riaa — a पहला लिये a मादा समूह, और आखिरकार बेची 23 million copies worldwide.
Five years later, the group released उनके तीसरा एल्बम fanmail, जिससे became the समूह 's पहला एल्बम to डेब्यू at क्रमांक एक और बेची more than 11 million copies worldwide.
The subsequent tour following fanmails रिलीज became the उच्चतम grossing tour of all time by a female band.
In 2002, लिसा `` बाएँ नजर '' lopes died in a car दुर्घटना in Honduras.
Seven months later, T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's चौथी एल्बम 3d, जिससे बेची 2 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी, it प्रदर्शित unreleased vocals from Left Eye.
Billboard magazine ranked tlc as एक of the महानतम musical trios.
Between 1992 and 2003, the बैंड संचित टेन शीर्ष टेन singles, चार क्रमांक एक singles, चार multi-platinum albums, and four Grammy Awards.
At the end of 1999, TLC was ranked as the seventh सबसे कामयाब अधिनियम of the 1990s by बिलबोर्ड.
In 2008, the समूह थी inducted into the सब समय hot 100 कलाकार हॉल of Fame by the same magazine, at 56th place.
That year it थी भी सूचीबद्ध as the # 25 r & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years.
TLC has sold more than 65 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी और वे हैं क्रमित as the दूसरी बेहतरीन selling मादा समूह of सब समय, and the best selling female R & B group of all time.
In 2012, tlc क्रमित 12th on vh1 's 100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक, होने ranked the number one all girl group on that list.
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी विशेषता एनिमेशन और वितरित by Walt Disney Pictures.
The 37th film in the Walt डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक, it is आधारित on the स्टोरी टार्ज़न of the apes by एडगर राइस बरोज, और is the तभी प्रमुख गति picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated.
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima साथ a पटकथा by tab मर्फी, bob tzudiker, और नोनी श्वेत, टार्ज़न सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें of टोनी goldwyn, minnie ड्राइवर, ग्लेन बंद, और रोजी o'donnell साथ ब्रायन धन्य, तलवार henriksen, Wayne Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It was the last bona fide hit पहले the डिज़्नी slump of the जल्दी 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically और $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the time of its रिलीज, इसके उत्पादन बजट of $ 130 लाख बना it the सबसे महंगी एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी बना, जबतक अव्वल by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002.
It was also the first Disney एनिमेटेड विशेषता to खोलें at # 1 चूंकि pocahontas.
This was the last major box दफ्तर कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण.
Oil मंच p-51 बंद the ब्राज़ीलियाई coast is a semi-submersible platform.
Oil मंच mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform, ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill wells, to निकालें और प्रक्रम आयल और प्राकृतिक गैस, और to temporarily स्टोर उत्पाद जबतक it can be brought to shore लिये शोधन और marketing.
In many मामले, the मंच contains सुविधाएं to हाउस the workforce as well.
Depending on the circumstances, the मंच may be फिक्स्ड to the समंदर मंजिल, may consist of an कृत्रिम island, or may float.
रिमोट subsea कुएं may भी be कनेक्ट to a मंच by flow lines and by umbilical connections.
These subsea solutions may consist of एक or अधिक subsea कुएं, or of एक or अधिक manifold केंद्रों लिये अनेक कुएं.
Slaughter is the killing of पशु, प्रायः कि of घरेलू पशुधन लिये food.
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle, water buffalo ( for beef and veal ), sheep, goats ( for lamb and मटन ), सूअर ( लिये पोर्क ), घोड़े ( लिये घोड़ा मांस ), और fowl, largely मुर्गियों, turkeys, और बतखों और increasingly मछली इससे the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ).
The White House, the अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक निवास और बीच of the administration
Under the United States संविधान, the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of राज्य and head of government of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the संघीय सरकारी as a पूरे, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the United States by influence and recognition.
The अध्यक्ष is भी the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the चुनावी कॉलेज असफल to पुरस्कार an निरपेक्ष बहुमत of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice, और no एक जो रै परोसा अधिक than दो सालो of a पद to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or हटाना इससे दफ्तर of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the office.
The अध्यक्ष जरूर be at तनिक 35 सालो of आयु और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those व्यक्तियों जो यहूद sworn into दफ्तर as अध्यक्ष following the अनुसमर्थन of the United States Constitution, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
For American leaders पहले इस अनुसमर्थन, देखिए अध्यक्ष of the Continental Congress.
The list does not include any Acting राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into दफ्तर, और 44 presidencies, as ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें और is गिने क्रमबद्धता as दोनो the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष, चार died in दफ्तर of प्राकृतिक कल्याणकारी ( विलियम हेनरी हैरिसन, zachary टेलर, वारेन G. हार्डिंग, और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first president, was उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the चुनावी कॉलेज.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 दिनों in 1841, और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over बारह सालो, लकिन died shortly into उसके चौथी पद in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two शर्तें, और a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों बाद हैरी ट्रूमैन, थी passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 बाद सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners इससे मतदान यहूद repealed.
Warren हार्डिंग थी the पहला निर्वाचित बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान rights in 1920.
History records four presidents – जॉन q एडम्स, रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़, बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया the लोकप्रिय vote लकिन assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith, and the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, बराक ओबामा, is the पहला अध्यक्ष of अफ़्रीकी descent.
Several firearms साथ detachable suppressors, इससे शीर्ष to नीचे : an uzi, an ar-15, A Heckler & Koch USP Tactical, A Beretta 92FS, and a SIG Mosquito.
Bolt कार्रवाई rimfire राइफल साथ suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle साथ संलग्न suppressor.
A suppressor, ध्वनि suppressor, or ध्वनि मॉडरेटर, is a यंत्र संलग्न to or भाग of the बैरल of a firearm जिससे reduces the राशि of रव, और प्रायः the राशि of muzzle flash, generated by firing the weapon.
A suppressor can be प्रयुक्त दोनो साथ a firearm और साथ संपीडित एयर gun.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the ध्वनि of a प्रक्षेप्य, विशेषकर एक चलती तेज़ than the गति of ध्वनि, through the air can not be eliminated.
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e. वृहद than 300 मीटर ) can lessen, or retard, the रपट at the पल of प्रभाव, और बनाएँ the impression of silence near the target.
The noise heard near the muzzle as a प्रक्षेप्य पत्ते the बैरल, हालांकि subdued, is नहीं मूक at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder साथ आतंरिक mechanisms to reduce the ध्वनि of फायरिंग by slowing the escaping propellant गैस and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet.
Early suppressors यहूद निर्मित around the शुरूआत of the 20th century by several inventors.
अमरीकी आविष्कारक hiram पर्सी कहावत ( नहीं to be उलझन साथ hiram स्टीवंस कहावत, hiram पर्सी 's पिता, और the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun ), is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ).
Maxim gave उसके यंत्र the trademarked name Maxim Silencer.
The muffler for internal दहन इंजन थी विकसित in समानांतर साथ the firearm suppressor by कहावत in the जल्दी 20th सदी, using अनेक of the वही तकनीकों to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ).
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use, although it has चूंकि गिरे आउट of एहसान साथ कुछ, विशेषकर among the firearms उद्योग, होने replaced साथ the अधिक वस्तुतः सटीक पद ध्वनि suppressor or बस suppressor, क्युकी a `` ध्वनि suppressor '' करता not `` silence '' any weapon, rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging.
आम उपयोग और u.S. विधान भाषा एहसान the historically earlier term, silencer.
In U.S. law, the शर्तें `` firearm मफलर '' और `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous.
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the संयुक्त राज्य दफ्तर of रणनीतिक सेवाएं, जो favored the newly designed ऊँची मानक hdm.22 long Rifle pistol during World War II.
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the पिस्टल लिये अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट at the श्वेत हाउस.
according to oss शोध मुख्य स्टेनली लोवेल, डोनोवन ( an बूढ़ा और विश्वसनीय dost of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office, where Roosevelt was dictating a letter.
While Roosevelt finished his message, Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he था brought साथ उसे, घोषित कया he था किया और हात the धूम्रपान गन to the astonished president.
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination पिस्टल साथ an अभिन्न suppressor थी भी प्रयुक्त by the अमरीकी oss on clandestine परिचालन in नाजी occupied यूरोपीय दौरान the Second World War.
beatrice `` bea '' आर्थर ( may 13, 1922 – अप्रैल 25, 2009 ) थी an अमरीकी actress, comedienne, and singer whose career spanned seven decades.
Arthur achieved fame as the अक्षर maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the परिवार और maude, और as डोरोथी zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the सुनहरी Girls, winning Emmy Awards for both roles.
A stage actress both पहले और बाद उसके टेलीविज़न कामयाबी, वो जीती the टोनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शित अभिनेत्री in a musical लिये उसके प्रदर्शन as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series, produced by Digital frontier और वितरित by asmik इक्का entertainment in संघ साथ बंदाई Entertainment.
The film premiered in North America by Bandai entertainment on जुलाई 26, 2011, और in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on जुलाई 27, 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening.
It was released on सितंबर 3, 2011 in Japan.
The film was released on blu-ray डिस्क on नवम्बर 22, 2011 लिये यूएसए, और दिसम्बर 1, 2011 for Japan.
This film was also released on dvd on नवम्बर 22, 2011 ( 2d संस्करण तभी ).
The film was additionally included with the प्लेस्टेशन 3 खेल, tekken संकर, और the निन्टेंडो 3ds शीर्षक, tekken 3d : प्रधान Edition.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary पड़ोस वकालत समूह, देखिए पड़ोस association.
In the United States, a homeowner संघ is a निगम formed by a रियल एस्टेट डेवलपर लिये the purpose of विपणन, मैनेजिंग, and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision.
It grants the developer विशेषाधिकार मतदान अधिकारों in शासी the संघ, जबकि allowing the डेवलपर to निकास वित्तीय और विधिक जिम्मेदारी of the संगठन, typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots.
Membership in the homeowners संघ by a आवासीय खरीदार is typically a कंडीशन of खरीदें ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it.
Most homeowner associations are incorporated, and are subject to राज्य statutes कि govern non-profit corporations और homeowner एसोसिएशन.
State oversight of homeowner एसोसिएशन is minimal, और मुख्यतः takes the रूप of कानून जिससे हैं असंगत इससे state to state.
Some states, such as फ्लोरिडा और कैलिफ़ोर्निया, have a विशाल देह of homeowner संघ विधि, और कुछ राज्य, ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स, have वस्तुतः no homeowner association law.
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( cids ), a श्रेणी कि शामिल planned-unit developments of single-family घरों, condominiums, and cooperative apartments.
Since 1964, homeowner एसोसिएशन have become increasingly common in the USA.
The Community Associations Institute व्यापार संघ अनुमानित कि hoas governed 24.8 लाख अमरीकी घरों और 62 लाख निवासियों in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
There are many breeds of गिनी सुअर जिससे have महरूम विकसित चूंकि its domestication ca. 5000 BC.
Breeds vary widely in रूप और purpose, ranging इससे दिखाएँ breeds साथ long, बहती बाल to those in उपयोग as मॉडल जीवों by science.
From ca. 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532, selective breeding by स्वदेशी दक्षिण अमरीकी peoples resulted in अनेक किस्में of घरेलू गिनी pigs, which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds.
Early Andean breeds यहूद primarily रखा as agricultural भण्डार लिये खाना, और प्रयत्न at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era.
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century, the goal in प्रजनन shifted to फ़ोकस on the विकास of appealing pets.
To this end, various competitive प्रजनन संगठन यहूद संस्थापित by fanciers.
The American Cavy प्रजनक संघ, an adjunct to the अमरीकी खरगोश प्रजनक संघ, is the शासी देह in the संयुक्त States and Canada.
The British cavy परिषद governs cavy क्लब in the संयुक्त Kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( ऑस्ट्रेलियाई नेशनल cavy परिषद ) और नई जीलैंड ( नई जीलैंड cavy Club ).
Each club publishes इसके अपना मानक of पूर्णता और determines जिससे breeds हैं eligible for showing.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
Though there are many breeds of Guinea pig, तभी a few breeds हैं commonly मिला on the दिखाएँ तालिका as pets.
Most Guinea pigs मिला as पालतु यहूद either मिला अवांछनीय by प्रजनक or यहूद करवाया to be सुखद पालतु regardless of कैसा खूब वे मिलें the नस्ल standard of perfection.
The short hair, Abyssinian, Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently देखी as पालतु, और the पूर्व तीन हैं the कोर breeds in the इतिहास of the प्रतिस्पर्धी प्रर्दशित of Guinea pigs.
In addition to their standard form, nearly सब breeds आइये in a साटन रूपांतर.
Satins, due to उनके खोखला बाल shafts, possess coats of a खास gloss and shine.
However, there is growing evidence that the genes जिम्मेदार लिये the साटन कोट भी can कारण कठोर अस्थि समस्याएं, सहित osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease.
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy प्रजनक ' एसोसिएशन क्युकी of एनिमल welfare reasons.
All cavy breeds have कुछ साझा सामान्य मानकों : the सिर प्रोफ़ाइल चाहिए be rounded, with large eyes and large, smooth ears.
The body should be दमदार और of कॉम्पैक्ट निर्माण.
Coat रंग चाहिए in सब विसंगतियाँ be clearly पारिभाषित और thorough from root to tip.
These मानकों हैं बेहतरीन मिले by long स्थापित, commonly करवाया breeds, as उनके प्रजनक have था पर्याप्त समय और पशु to effectively breed for these qualities.
the कोट रंग आदर्श of शुभ परिभाषा और thoroughness is rarely मिले by अन्य than the चिकना coated breeds, जिससे have था खूब established, separate breeding lines for different colours.
State schools ( भी ज्ञात as पब्लिक स्कूलों or सरकारी स्कूलों ) generally refer to प्राथमिक or द्वितीयक स्कूलों mandated लिये or offered to सब children बगैर चार्ज सशुल्क लिये, in पूरे or in part, by taxation.
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary education वित्तपोषित, in पूरे or in भाग, और overseen by सरकारी.
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules जिनकी अनुक्रम is नियंत्रित by the अनुक्रम of मेसेंजर RNA molecules.
This is required by सब जीना कोशिकाएं और संबद्ध viruses.
the राइबोसोम ( इससे ribonucleic एसिड और the यूनानी सोम, अर्थ `` देह '' ) is a विशाल और जटिल आणविक यंत्र, मिला भीतर सब जीना कोशिकाएं, कि serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ).
ribosomes कड़ी अमीनो acids साथ in the अनुक्रम specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules.
ribosomes consist of दो प्रमुख subunits—the छोटी ribosomal subunit पढ़े the mrna, जबकि the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain.
Each subunit is composed of एक or अधिक ribosomal rna ( rrna ) अणुओं और a किस्में of proteins.
The sequence of DNA encoding लिये a प्रोटीन may be कॉपी अनेक टाइम्स into मेसेंजर rna ( mrna ) जंजीरों of a similar sequence.
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and use it as a template for determining the सही अनुक्रम of अमीनो acids in a particular प्रोटीन.
Amino acids are selected, collected and carried to the राइबोसोम by ट्रांसफ़र rna ( trna अणुओं ), जिससे डालें एक भाग of the राइबोसोम और bind to the messenger RNA chain.
The attached amino acids are then linked साथ by another भाग of the राइबोसोम.
Once the protein is उत्पादित, it can तब 'fold ' to उपज a विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक three-dimensional structure.
A ribosome is बना इससे देवालय of rnas और प्रोटीन और is इसलिए a ribonucleoprotein.
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit बांधता to the mrna पैटर्न, जबकि the larger subunit बांधता to the trna और the अमीनो acids.
When a ribosome finishes पढना an mrna अणु, ये दो subunits split apart.
Ribosomes are ribozymes, क्युकी the catalytic peptidyl transferase कार्यकलाप कि कड़ी अमीनो acids साथ is performed by the ribosomal RNA.
Ribosomes from bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of जीवन on धरती ) differ in उनके आकार, अनुक्रम, ढांचा, और the ratio of protein to RNA.
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill जीवाणु by inhibiting उनके ribosomes, जबकि leaving human ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria and archaea, more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA chain at एक समय, प्रत्येक `` पढना '' इसके अनुक्रम और producing a सम्बन्धित प्रोटीन अणु.
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic कोशिकाएं functionally resemble अनेक सुविधाएँ of those in जीवाणु, reflecting the संभावित विकासवादी origin of mitochondria.
Albert Claude, Christian de Duve, and George एमिल palade यहूद jointly awarded the नोबेल पुरस्कार in physiology or आयुर्विज्ञान, in 1974, लिये the डिस्कवरी of the ribosomes.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 थी awarded to venkatraman रामकृष्णन, थामस A. steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome.
The सरलीकृत आतंरिक ढांचा of a हरितलवक
Overview of the Calvin साईकिल और कार्बन fixation
The light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis हैं रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ कि convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक बाहर of the thylakoid झिल्लियों.
These reactions take the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और perform further रासायनिक प्रक्रियाओं on उन्हें.
There are तीन phases to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ, collectively पुकारा the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी when light is available.
Plants do नहीं carry आउट the calvin cycle by night.
वे, बजाय, रिलीज sucrose into the फ्लोएम from their starch reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the दयालु of photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation, c4 कार्बन fixation, और crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; कैम पौधे स्टोर malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
In mathematics, a square number or पूर्ण वर्गाकार is an पूर्णांक कि is the वर्गाकार of an पूर्णांक ; in अन्य शब्द, it is the उत्पाद of कुछ पूर्णांक साथ itself.
For example, 9 is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक, चूंकि it can be लिखा as.
The usual notation for the formula for the वर्गाकार of a क्रमांक is नहीं the उत्पाद, लकिन the समतुल्य घातांक, प्रायः सुनाया as `` squared ''.
The name वर्गाकार क्रमांक आता इससे the नाम of the आकार ; see below.
Square संख्याएँ हैं non-negative.
another रास्ता of saying कि a ( non-negative ) number is a square number, is that its square roots are again integers.
For उदाहरण, = ±3, so 9 is a वर्गाकार number.
A positive पूर्णांक कि रै no पूर्ण वर्गाकार divisors except 1 is called square-free.
For a non-negative integer, the th वर्गाकार क्रमांक is, साथ होने the zeroth square.
the अवधारणा of वर्गाकार can be विस्तारित to कुछ other number systems.
if तर्कसंगत संख्याएँ हैं शामिल, तब a वर्गाकार is the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार integers, और, conversely, the अनुपात of two square integers is a square ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
Starting with 1, there are वर्गाकार संख्याएँ up to और सहित, जहाँ the अभिव्यक्ति represents the floor of the number.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the राजनैतिक इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कि reflected a भाव of नेशनल purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
the era देखी the पतन of the federalist पार्टी और an समाप्त to the कड़वा दलगत विवादों between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System.
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay दलगत संबद्ध in बनाना उसके nominations, साथ the परम लक्ष्य of नेशनल unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics.
The period is so closely संबद्ध साथ मुनरो 's प्रेसिडेंसी ( 1817–1825 ) और उसके प्रशासनिक लक्ष्य कि his name and the era are virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in अमरीकी राजनीती साथ the समाप्त of the federalist पार्टी as अमेरिका began to develop बाद the युद्ध of 1812.
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन, इस era भी marks the पहला उदाहरण of आर्थिक परेशानियों in the growing संयुक्त States.
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay, protective tariffs and the chartering of the दूसरी बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य जटिल the टेंशन between the उत्तर और दक्षिण with the coming of the first financial crisis.
While the term “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with विडंबना क्युकी of the राजनैतिक turmoil, आर्थिक कारकों caused animosity between the उत्तर और दक्षिण.
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the इतिहास of the era थी एक in जिससे the राजनैतिक माहौल थी strained और divisive, विशेषकर among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party.
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell, in the Boston Federalist newspaper, Columbian centinel, on जुलाई 12, 1817, following मुनरो 's विज़िट to बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स as भाग of उसके शुभ होगा दौरे of America.
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' hamm ( born कूच 17, 1972 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी professional soccer player.
Hamm played many years as a forward लिये the संयुक्त राज्य महिलाओं 's नेशनल सॉकर टोली और थी a founding सदस्य of the Washington Freedom.
Hamm scored 158 international goals, more than any अन्य खिलाड़ी, पुरूष or मादा, in the इतिहास of सॉकर और is the तीसरा सबसे capped female player in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone, appearing in 275 international matches.
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the पहला दो टाइम्स कि पुरस्कार थी दिए ( in 2001 और 2002 ), और is सूचीबद्ध as एक of फीफा 's 125 बेहतरीन जीना खिलाड़ी ( as chosen by Pelé ).
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports हॉल of कीर्ति और टेक्सास खेल हॉल of कीर्ति.
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to जीतना in सॉकर और जीवन और appeared in the एचबीओ वृत्तचित्र हिम्मत to सपना : the स्टोरी of the u.S. महिलाओं 's सॉकर टोली.
Washington Post columnist माइकल wilbon पुकारा hamm, `` शायद the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण athlete of the last 15 years. ''
hamm takes a कोने kick.
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team आधारित in हैरिसन, नई जर्सी, representing the नई York metropolitan area.
The team competes in the पूर्वी सम्मेलन of प्रमुख लीग सॉकर ( MLS ).
It is one of the ten charter क्लब of mls, having competed in the लीग चूंकि its inception.
The team was a founding सदस्य of mls ( 1996 ), लकिन रै gone through several name changes.
The team was originally ज्ञात as the नई york/new जर्सी MetroStars through 1997.
From the 1998 ऋतु through the 2005 ऋतु, the टोली थी ज्ञात as the MetroStars.
On March 9, 2006, the team was बेची to रेड सांड gmbh, अग्रणी to the टोली 's वर्तमान name.
They are the only original MLS मताधिकार नहीं to have जीती कोई significant ट्रॉफी ( सहित नियमित ऋतु, playoffs, और knockout competition ) since inception.
the टोली 's बेहतरीन परिणाम in the mls थी the mls Cup final in 2008.
in the us खोलें कप, the metrostars पहुँचे तीन semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), पहले reaching उनके पहला फाइनल in 2003, losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire.
On August 26, 2000, the metros ' क्लिंट mathis नियत an mls रिकार्ड by स्कोरिंग पाँच लक्ष्य in a game against the Dallas Burn.
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese, Tim Howard, Tony Meola, Tab Ramos, alexi lalas, क्लिंट mathis, jozy altidore, माइकल ब्राडली, क्लाउडियो reyna, एडी पोप, रॉबर्टो donadoni, lothar matthäus, एडोल्फो वालेंसिया, youri djorkaeff, amado ग्वेरा, जुआन पाब्लो ángel, thierry Henry, Juninho Pernambucano, Jan Gunnar Solli, Rafael Márquez, and Tim Cahill.
The team has also had well-known coaches, including Carlos Queiroz, Carlos Alberto Parreira, Bora milutinović, bob ब्राडली, mo johnston, Bruce Arena and Hans Backe.
Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism are one, a पेंटिंग in the litang स्टाइल portraying तीन मेन हँस by a नदी स्ट्रीम, 12th सदी, Song Dynasty.
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world, or in अनेक देशों, is मुश्किल due to definitional मुद्दे as खूब as व्यावहारिक problems of enumeration.
To begin साथ, the धार्मिक मान्यताओं, practices, और पहचान of ईस्ट एशियाइ ( जो comprise the बहुमत of the संसार 's बौद्धों by कोई माप ) प्रायः मिश्रण Buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism, the Chinese folk religion, Daoism, Shinto, and Korean shamanism.
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to संरचित congregations, or observe a definite अनुष्ठान of adherence ऐसे as लेने शरण, बनाना it मुश्किल to accurately अनुमान the number of practitioners.
An additional challenge is the hostility of अनेक नेशनल सरकारें ( प्रायः कम्युनिस्ट ones ऐसे as चीन or उत्तर कोरियाई ) to धर्म generally or to Buddhism specifically.
Government policies in these countries may प्रोत्साहित the under-reporting or non-reporting of धार्मिक adherence, resulting in आधिकारिक योग कि may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries.
Estimate of the worldwide बौद्ध जनसांख्यिकी दायरा इससे 350 लाख to over एक अरब, लकिन क्लस्टर nearer to the first figure.
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a फिगर of 397 million.
By प्रमुख शाखाओं, the संख्याएँ are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism, सहित ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism, साथ no कम than 185 लाख adherents, और संभवतः अनेक टाइम्स कि many ( again, depending on definitional issues ).
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in चीन, दक्षिण कोरियाई, जापानी, ताईवान, सिंगापुर, और Vietnam.
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism, साथ no कम than 125 लाख adherents.
This is the predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in Cambodia, Thailand, Laos, Sri Lanka, and Burma.
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism, साथ लगभग 20 लाख adherents.
This form predominates in the वृहद तिब्बती और मंगोलियाई regions, as खूब as in the Himalayas.
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan, and various territories within कया is अभी पश्चिमी चीन, वज्रयान is परंपरागत to निश्चित regions of रूस ( e.g. कालमिकिया, बुर्यातिया ), इण्डिया ( e.g. लद्दाख, सिक्किम ), और नेपाल ( e.g. Khumbu ).
Vajrayana, also known as Tibetan Buddhism, is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism, but this is imprecise, as shingon और अन्य फ़ॉर्म of ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism भी अभ्यास तन्त्र.
At least 7 देशों ( श्री लंका, थाईलैंड, कंबोडिया, लाओस, बर्मा, भूटान, और मंगोल ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents, इस फिगर might विस्तार to शामिल several more countries.
In addition, Buddhism is the राज्य धर्म of कंबोडिया और भूटान, और receives prominent जिक्र in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka.
In northern India and Nepal, the जमीन जहाँ buddhism थी born, the धर्म severely declined during the first millennium.
Whether this decline was due to the इस्लामी conquest of उत्तरी इण्डिया, or to अन्य कारकों, remains controversial.
See the article मनाही of buddhism in इण्डिया.
James बटलर hickok ( may 27, 1837 – अगस्त 2, 1876 ), बेहतर known as Wild Bill Hickok, was a folk hero of the American Old West.
His skills as a gunfighter and scout, along with his reputation as a lawman, provided the आधार लिये उसके कीर्ति, हालांकि कुछ of उसके reported कारनामे हैं fictionalized.
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois, hickok गई वेस्ट at आयु 18 as a भगोड़े इससे इंसाफ, पहला working as a stagecoach ड्राइवर, पहले he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska.
He fought for the Union फौज दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध, और gained publicity बाद the युद्ध as a स्काउट, marksman, कर्ता, और पेशेवर gambler.
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling, which easily overlapped, hickok थी शामिल in अनेक notable shootouts.
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & मन 's सैलून in deadwood, डकोटा territory ( अभी दक्षिण Dakota ).
Artist 's conception of the जिज्ञासा रोवर vaporizing चट्टान on Mars.
The rover उतरा on मंगल in अगस्त 2012.
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself आरपार the सतह of the ग्रह मंगल बाद लैंडिंग.
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory, they can be directed to interesting सुविधाएँ, वे can प्लेस themselves in सनी स्थितियाँ to मौसम शीत महीने और वे can अग्रिम the ज्ञान of कैसा to perform बहुत रिमोट रोबोटिक गाडी control.
There have been four कामयाब robotically संचालित मंगल रोवर्स.
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory प्रबंधित the मंगल pathfinder मिशन और इसके अभी निष्क्रिय sojourner रोवर.
It currently manages the मंगल खोजी रोवर मिशन 's क्रियाशील अवसर रोवर और निष्क्रिय स्पिरिट, और, as भाग of the Mars Science Laboratory mission, the Curiosity rover.
A financial audit, or more accurately, an ऑडिट of वित्तीय कथन, is the सत्यापन of the वित्तीय कथन of a विधिक एंटिटी, with a view to express an audit opinion.
the ऑडिट राय is intended to provide उचित परख, लकिन नहीं निरपेक्ष परख, कि the वित्तीय कथन हैं प्रस्तुत fairly, in सब सामग्री respects, and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements, which increases the value and credibility of the वित्तीय कथन उत्पादित by प्रबन्धन, यूँ बढ़ाएँ उपयोक्ता विश्वास in the वित्तीय बयान, reduce निवेशकों रिस्क और नतीजतन reduce the लागत of पूंजी of the preparer of the वित्तीय कथन.
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing लेखपाल जो हैं विशेषज्ञ in वित्तीय रिपोर्टिंग.
The financial audit is one of many assurance कृत्यों provided by हिसाब firms.
Many organizations separately employ or hire आतंरिक auditors, जो do नहीं attest to वित्तीय रिपोर्ट्स लकिन फ़ोकस मुख्यतः on the आतंरिक नियंत्रण of the organization.
External auditors may choose to place limited रिलायंस on the कार्य of आतंरिक auditors.
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures बना by an संगठन, इसलिए होता संभावित to reduce of ऐसे corporations to छिपाते unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों on auditing ( isa ) जारी by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय auditing और परख मानकों फलक ( iaasb ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process.
लगभग सब jurisdictions आवश्यकता auditors to follow the ISA or a local variation of the ISA.
Dollar coins have been minted in the संयुक्त राज्य in सुनहरा, चांदी, और आधार मेटल संस्करण.
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States साथ a फेस मान of एक डालर, हालांकि purists जिद कि a डालर is नहीं चांदी जबतक it contains कुछ of कि मेटल.
चांदी डॉलर, the पहला डालर coin issue, were minted beginning in 1794.
Gold dollars and gold-colored डॉलर have भी महरूम उत्पादित by the United States.
the sacagawea और अध्यक्षीय डॉलर हैं प्रायः referred to as `` golden dollars ''.
In modern times, dollar coins have नहीं महरूम बहुत लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Despite efforts by the सरकारी to प्रचार उनके उपयोग, सबसे अमेरिकी currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins.
in सीधा और स्तर उड़ान lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ).
In a banked turn of 60°, लिफ्ट बराबरी दोगुना the वज़न ( L=2W ).
The pilot experiences 2g और a doubled वज़न.
The steeper the बैंको, the वृहद the g-forces.
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate इससे शून्य to in 0.86 seconds.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the लंबवत g-force in the stationary मामला the pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g.
g-force ( साथ g इससे गुरुत्वाकर्षक ) is a पद लिये accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers.
It is नहीं a फ़ोर्स, प्रति se, but a force per unit mass.
Since such a force is आभास as a वज़न, कोई g-force can be वर्णित as a `` वज़न प्रति ईकाई द्रव्यमान '' ( देखिए the synonym specific weight ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for प्रत्येक ईकाई of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's द्रव्यमान, और ( सहेजें लिये निश्चित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ोर्स प्रभाव ) is the कारण of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's त्वरण in संबंध to free-fall.
This acceleration अनुभवी by an ऑब्जेक्ट is due to the वेक्टर योग of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move.
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations, और it is तभी ये कि हैं measured in g-force units.
They cause तनावों और strains on objects.
क्युकी of ये strains, विशाल g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation acting अलोन करता नहीं उपज a g-force, भी हालांकि g-forces हैं expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity.
Thus, the मानक गुरुत्वाकर्षक त्वरण at the धरती 's सतह produces g-force तभी indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces.
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical फ़ोर्स exerted in the upward दिशा by the मैदान, keeping the object from going into free-fall.
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating सापेक्ष to the free-fall कंडीशन, जिससे is the पाथ कि the ऑब्जेक्ट होता follow जब गिरना freely toward the धरती 's center.
Objects अनुमत to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, feel no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' शर्तें अंदर a freely गिरना लिफ्ट गिरना toward the धरती 's बीच ( in वैक्यूम ), or ( to शुभ सन्निकटन ) शर्तें inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
These are examples of coordinate त्वरण ( a बदलें in गति ) बगैर a सनसनी of weight.
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is उत्पादित, is synonymous साथ weightlessness.
In the absence of gravitational fields, or in directions at सही कोण to उन्हें, उचित और निर्देशांक accelerations हैं the वही, और कोई निर्देशांक त्वरण जरूर be उत्पादित by a corresponding g-force acceleration.
An example here is a rocket in free space, in which simple changes in velocity हैं उत्पादित by the इंजन, और उपज g-forces on the प्रक्षेपास्त्र और यात्री.
an augur पकड़कर a lituus, the curved wand प्रायः used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a पुजारी और आधिकारिक in the शास्त्रीय संसार, विशेषकर प्राचीन रोम और etruria.
His main role was to interpret the will of the gods by studying the उड़ान of पक्षियों : whether वे हैं उड़ती in समूह or अलोन, कया noises वे मेक as वे मक्खी, दिशा of flight and what kind of birds they are.
इस थी ज्ञात as `` taking the auspices. ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in रोमन society—public or private—including matters of युद्ध, कॉमर्स, and religion.
The Roman historian Livy तनावों the महत्व of the augurs : `` जो करता नहीं जान कि इस नगर थी संस्थापित तभी बाद लेने the auspices, कि सबकुछ in युद्ध and in peace, at home and abroad, was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
farmington पहाड़ियाँ is an affluent जातियाँ in southeastern Michigan.
It is the दूसरी largest नगर in ओकलैंड काउंटी in the u.S. state of Michigan.
इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी 79,740 at the 2010 census.
It is part of the upscale northwestern उपनगरों of महानगर डेट्रॉयट और is भी पूर्वोत्तर of शहर Ann Arbor.
Farmington पहाड़ियाँ consistently बाँधने as एक of the safest शहरों in the United States, as well as in the state of Michigan.
in 2010, the क्षेत्रफल क्रमित as the 30th safest city in America.
Although the two cities have पृथक सेवाएं और पता, farmington और farmington पहाड़ियाँ हैं often thought of as the same community.
Features of the community include a recently संवर शहर, boutiques, a विंटेज सिनेमा, numerous रेस्तरां, exotic car dealerships, art galleries, and public parks including Heritage Park.
वहीँ हैं अनेक ऐतिहासिक साइट सहित the longacre House and the Governor Warner Mansion.
Both शहरों हैं परोसा by Farmington Public Schools.
farmington पहाड़ियाँ serves as a प्रमुख कारोबार बीच for the greater Detroit area.
present-day छाप of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town मुहर ( मेट्रिक्स ) of náchod इससे 1570
A seal is a device for making an छाप in मोम, मिट्टी, पेपर, or कुछ अन्य मीडियम, सहित an embossment on पेपर, और is भी the छाप thus made.
The original purpose was to authenticate a document, a wrapper for one such as a आधुनिक लिफाफा, or the कवर of a संग्राहक or पैकेज पकड़कर valuables or अन्य वस्तुएँ.
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould, with the final image represented on the device for making the छाप by a mirror-image डिज़ाइन, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making device is also referred to as the मुहर मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the मुहर छाप ( or, अधिक rarely, the sealing ).
If the छाप is बना purely as a राहत resulting इससे the वृहद दबाव on the पेपर जहाँ the ऊँची भाग of the मेट्रिक्स टच, the मुहर is ज्ञात as a शुष्क मुहर ; in सब अन्य मामले a द्रव or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used, usually in another color than the paper.
For विधिक उद्देश्य, the परिभाषा of a मुहर may be विस्तारित to include rubber stamps, or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S. `` ).
In the संयुक्त राज्य, the शब्द `` मुहर '' is sometimes आबंटित to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ), which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings, on flags, or on official letterheads.
Thus, for example, the Great Seal of the United States, among other uses, appears on the रिवर्स of the one-dollar विधेयक ; और अनेक of the seals of the u.S. राज्य appear on उनके संबंधित state flags.
In यूरोपीय, हालांकि coats of बाहें और heraldic बैज may खूब विशेषता in ऐसे contexts as खूब as on seals, the मुहर डिज़ाइन in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
the पढ़ाई of seals is ज्ञात as sigillography or sphragistics.
Groundhog Day ( पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी : grundsaudaag, murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this दिन, तब वसन्त होगा आइये जल्दी ; if it is सनी, the groundhog होगा माना देखिए इसके छाया और रिट्रीट वापस into इसके burrow, और the शीत मौसम will continue for six more weeks.
Modern customs of the अवकाश involve जश्न जहाँ जल्दी morning त्यौहार हैं आयोजित to देखें the groundhog उभरते इससे इसके burrow.
In southeastern पेन्सिलवेनिया, groundhog lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the अवकाश साथ fersommlinge, सोशल कार्यक्रम in जिससे खाना is परोसा, speeches are made, and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the तभी भाषा बोला at the इवेंट, और those जो बोलो अंग्रेज़ी अदा a दंड, प्रायः in the रूप of a निकल, dime, or quarter per word spoken, with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table.
The largest groundhog दिन जश्न is आयोजित in punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
Groundhog Day, already a widely recognized and popular tradition, received widespread ध्यान as a परिणाम of the 1993 फिल्मी groundhog दिन, जिससे थी नियत in punxsutawney, pa ( हालांकि filmed primarily in Woodstock, IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil.
ऊँची रेज़ोल्यूशन चित्र of Tampa Bay region
The tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल रै a आर्द्र उपोष्ण जलवायु ( koppen cfa ), साथ गरम और आर्द्र ग्रीष्म साथ बारंबार thunderstorms और drier सर्दियों with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years.
The area अनुभवों a significant गर्मियाँ गीला ऋतु, as nearly two-thirds of the सालाना वर्षण जलप्रपात in the months of June through September.
The area is listed by the United States Department of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) as होने in hardiness मण्डल 10, जिससे is परिचय the उत्तरी सीमा of जहाँ नारियल हथेलियां और royal palms can be grown.
Highs प्रायः दायरा between 65 और 95 °F ( 18 and 35 °C ) year round.
Though known for hot summers, tampa 's आधिकारिक ऊँची रै never पहुँचे 100 °f ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ).
St. पीटर्सबर्ग 's all-time रिकार्ड ऊँची is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ).
Pinellas County lies on a प्रायद्वीप between tampa खाड़ी और the गल्फ of मैक्सिको, और much of the नगर of tampa झूठ on a छोटी प्रायद्वीप jutting out into Tampa Bay.
This निकटता to विशाल लाशें of जल दोनो नरमपंथियों temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere.
In general, the local communities farthest from the coast have larger तापमान सीमाएँ, दोनो दौरान a सिंगल दिन और throughout the सीज़न of the year.
A diagram of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम, प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the दायरा of बारंबारता और wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of सब संभावित बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a अलग अर्थ, और is बजाय the characteristic वितरण of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण उत्सर्जित or अवशोषित by कि particular ऑब्जेक्ट.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of किलोमीटर bas to a भिन्न of the आकार of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is विचार कि the छोटी wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई, हालांकि in principle the वर्णक्रम is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम हैं प्रयुक्त in विज्ञान लिये spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला अनेक अन्य उपयोग लिये संचार और निर्माण ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ).
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; जनवरी 30, 1882 – अप्रैल 12, 1945 ), भी ज्ञात by उसके आद्याक्षर, fdr, थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932, as उसके घरेलू नीतियों पारिभाषित अमरीकी उदारतावाद लिये the मध्य तीसरा of the 20th सदी.
With the bouncy लोकप्रिय सोंग `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं यहाँ again `` as उसके अभियान थीम, fdr पराजित incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a नवीकरण of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston चर्चिल और सोवियत सामान्य सचिव जोसेफ स्टालिन in अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार युद्ध ii, और restoring समृद्धि to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to उपज राहत ( सरकारी कार्य लिये the बेरोजगार ), रिकवरी ( आर्थिक विकास ), और सुधार ( through विनियमन of वॉल गली, बैंको and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, लकिन तब relapsed into a गहन मंदी.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the परम् अदालत or गुजर कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम जब बेरोजगारी diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, मगर लिये the विनियमन of वॉल गली by the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग, जिससे स्टिल exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs शामिल the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम, जिससे थी निर्मित in 1933, और सोशल सुरक्षा, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, साथ the जापानी आक्रमण of चीन और the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी, fdr दिया दमदार राजनयिक और वित्तीय support to China and Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of लोकतंत्र `` जिससे होता सप्लाई munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional स्वीकृति, provided lend-lease सहायता to the देशों लड़ विरूद्ध नाजी जर्मनी साथ ब्रिटेन.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` तिथि जिससे होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the u.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to support the अलाइड war effort.
As an active सैन्य नेता, रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on दो fronts कि ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी अमरीकी नागरिकों.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the औद्योगिक अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers, और 16 लाख मेन और 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt वर्चस्व the अमरीकी राजनैतिक झाँकी नहीं तभी दौरान the बारह years of his presidency, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता कि निर्मित the पांचवां Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions, big city मशीने, श्वेत ethnics, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी और ग्रामीण श्वेत southerners.
He also बहकावे the बाद सृष्टि of the संयुक्त Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently रेटेड by विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, साथ साथ अब्राहम Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, रूज़वेल्ट पारिभाषित उसके वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a छोटी left of center. ''
A Joint कमेटी is a पद in राजनीती कि is प्रयुक्त to refer to a committee made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature.
In other contexts, it refers to a कमेटी साथ सदस्यों इससे अधिक than एक organization.
The regulation of prostitution in the संयुक्त राज्य is नहीं among the enumerated शक्तियां of the संघीय सरकारी ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, it is इसलिए exclusively the domain of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most राज्य, वेश्यावृति is माना a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक order crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It थी at एक समय माना to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the तभी राज्य to allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Only 8 counties फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The other counties theoretically allow brothel वेश्यावृति, लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी फिलहाल have no क्रियाशील brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' और जीना बंद of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
As with other countries, prostitution in the United States can be divided into three व्यापक श्रेणी : गली वेश्यावृति, वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, और अनुरक्षण वेश्यावृति.
The national flag of the United राज्य of अमेरिका, प्रायः बस referred to as the अमरीकी ध्वज, consists of तेरह बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत, साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और became the पहला राज्य in the Union.
Nicknames for the ध्वज शामिल the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '', `` बूढ़ा महिमा ``, और `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight राज्य और सात संघ territories.
The states and territories हैं further subdivided into जिले और so on.
Congressional जिले लिये the 113th संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस
2010 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional जिले, starting in 2013, as a परिणाम of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
2000 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional जिले, इससे 2003 to 2013, as a result of the 2000 census.
This is a complete list of congressional जिले लिये प्रतिनिधित्व in the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
The मात्रा ( apportionment ) और सीमाएँ ( redistricting ) of जिले हैं संकल्पित बाद प्रत्येक जनसांख्यिकी, हालांकि in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census.
This सूची शामिल the 435 वर्तमान और over 200 obsolete districts.
For example, since the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, नेब्रास्का रै था तीन जिले, but it used to have as many as six.
In the first दशक of the twenty-first सदी, टेक्सास था 32 जिले, लकिन रै चूंकि added चार due to reapportionment as a परिणाम of the 2010 census.
Other states have lost जिले चूंकि the क्रमांक of congressional सीटे रै महरूम नियत at 435 by statute.
Also शामिल यहाँ हैं non-voting delegations : छह वर्तमान and four obsolete.
The सीमाएँ of जिले प्रायः शिफ़्ट with each redistricting.
Over time, the region and जनसांख्यिकी represented in a ज़िला can बदलें substantially.
Furthermore, districts sometimes retain the वही सीमाएँ जबकि बदलना उनके ज़िला numbers.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia रिकॉर्ड कार्यपालिका टॉमी mottola, कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और शाखित चार लगातार क्रमांक एक singles on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ), म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ), और मैरी क्रिसमस ( 1994 ), कैरी थी established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history जब इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` एक मीठी दिन ``, a duet साथ बॉयज ii मेन, खर्च a रिकार्ड सोलह सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the Billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate इससे उसके r & b और पॉप beginnings और धीरे traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of तितली ( 1997 ), at जिससे समय कैरी था अलग इससे mottola.
Carey बाएँ कोलंबिया in 2000, और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 लाख recording contract with Virgin Records.
Before the release of उसके पहला विशेषता फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ), वो suffered a शारीरिक और emotional विश्लेषण and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये $ 50 लाख, जिससे led to a मनाही in उसके career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract सौदे साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002, और बाद an unsuccessful काल, लौटे to the शीर्ष of म्यूज़िक चार्ट साथ The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became उसके सबसे कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s, और थी बाद नामित `` सोंग of the दशक '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व, और ब्लैक रील और NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey has sold more than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक कलाकारों of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार म्यूज़िक Awards.
कैरी थी भी नामित the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
according to the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका, वो is the तीसरा best-selling मादा artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the रिलीज of `` टच my देह `` ( 2008 ), कैरी gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक one single in the United States, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, Carey was क्रमित दूसरी on vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम Women in Music ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey has won पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 17 संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, 11 अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, और 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness संसार रिकॉर्ड, वो is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन दायरा, शक्ति, melismatic स्टाइल और signature use of the whistle register.
stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology, a cloud is a दृश्य द्रव्यमान of द्रव droplets or frozen crystals बना of जल or विभिन्न रसायन निलंबित in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body.
ये निलंबित अणु are also known as aerosols.
बादल in धरती 's माहौल हैं पढ़ाई in the cloud physics branch of meteorology.
Two processes, possibly एक्टिंग साथ, can सीसे to एयर बनने संतृप्त ; कूलिंग the एयर or adding जल वाष्प to the air.
In general, precipitation will पतन to the सतह ; an एक्सेप्शन is virga, जिससे evaporates पहले reaching the सतह.
The international cloud classification system is आधारित on the फैक्ट बादल in उनके सबसे मौलिक फ़ॉर्म can दिखाएँ free-convective upward विकास जैसे कपासी, appear in non-convective परतदार चादरें ऐसे as स्ट्रेट्स, or लो the form of thin fibrous wisps, as in the case of cirrus.
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express विसंगतियाँ or complexities in ये मौलिक फ़ॉर्म or to बताएँ मध्य or ऊँची ऊँचाई ranges.
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers, cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to भारी वर्षण, alto- लिये मध्य बादल, और cirro- लिये ऊँची बादल ; the latter दो of जिससे may be of सरल or मध्यम complex structure.
Whether or not a cloud is low, मध्य, or ऊँची स्तर depends on कैसा दूर ऊपर the मैदान its base forms.
Cloud प्रकार साथ significant लंबवत extent can रूप in the कम or मध्य ऊँचाई ranges depending on the moisture content of the air.
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the popular adaptation of ल्यूक हावर्ड 's बादल categorization प्रणाली, जिससे began to स्प्रेड in लोकप्रियता during December 1802.
Synoptic surface weather observations उपयोग कोड संख्याएँ to रिकार्ड और रपट the प्रकार of tropospheric बादल दृश्य at प्रत्येक अनुसूचित अवलोकन समय आधारित on the ऊँचाई और शारीरिक appearance of the clouds.
While a majority of clouds form in धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल, वहीँ हैं अवसरों जब बादल in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed.
These three main layers of the atmosphere where बादल may be देखी हैं collectively ज्ञात as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere और exosphere, जिससे साथ मेक up the heterosphere कि marks the transition to outer space.
Clouds have महरूम observed on अन्य ग्रह और moons भीतर the सौर प्रणाली, लकिन, due to उनके अलग तापमान विशेषताएँ, वे हैं रचित of अन्य substances such as methane, ammonia, and sulfuric acid.
galveston काउंटी is a काउंटी स्तिथ in the u.S. राज्य of टेक्सास भीतर the houston–sugar Land–Baytown metropolitan area.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the जनसांख्यिकी was 291,309.
Its काउंटी सीट is galveston.
League नगर is the largest नगर in galveston काउंटी in शर्तें of जनसांख्यिकी ; URL_http between 2000 and 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city.
Galveston County was संस्थापित in 1838.
nassau
freeport, बहामा
This is a list of cities in the बहामा.
The following table lists the city or town name, the भौगोलिक निर्देशांक, the जनसांख्यिकी as of the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी, an अनुमान of the जनसांख्यिकी as of 2009, and the island name.
The Big Ten Conference, formerly Western Conference and Big Nine Conference, is the oldest प्रभाग i कॉलेज एथलेटिक सम्मेलन in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research विश्वविद्यालयों in उनके संबंधित राज्य, well-regarded academically, और साथ अपेक्षाकृत विशाल छात्र नामांकन ) हैं स्तिथ primarily in the Midwest, stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east.
The conference competes in the NCAA 's प्रभाग i ; इसके फ़ुटबॉल टीमों compete in the फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ), formerly ज्ञात as प्रभाग i-a, the highest level of NCAA competition in that sport.
Member schools of the बिग टेन ( or, in दो मामले, उनके जनक विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणालियों ) भी हैं सदस्यों of the कमेटी on संस्थागत सहयोग, a leading educational and research consortium.
Despite the conference 's name, the Big Ten actually consists of 12 स्कूलों, following the जोड of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the सम्मेलन होगा विस्तार to 14 सदस्यों साथ the परिवर्धन of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड, कॉलेज Park and Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.
It is not to be उलझन साथ the बिग 12 सम्मेलन, जिससे रै तभी टेन स्कूलों और represents a different region of the country.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in स्कॉटलैंड using a घट स्टिल आसवन प्रक्रम at a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी, साथ malted जौ as the तभी grain ingredient.
As with any Scotch whisky, a single malt Scotch must be आसुत in स्कॉटलैंड और matured in ओक casks in स्कॉटलैंड लिये at तनिक तीन सालो ( सबसे सिंगल malts हैं matured longer ).
`` malt '' indicates कि the व्हिस्की is distilled from a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of दाने can be malted ( लिये उदाहरण, जौ, rye और गेहूं हैं सब दाने which can be malted ) ; however, in the case of single malt Scotch, barley is always the only grain used.
`` सिंगल '' indicates कि सब the malts in the bottle come from a single distillery.
Bottlings containing malt whisky from अनेक distilleries हैं पुकारा `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of स्कॉच व्हिस्की ) on बोतलों of व्हिस्की कि contained a मिश्रण of दोनो जौ और non-barley अनाज व्हिस्की, लकिन इस is no longer the case.
Under the terminology स्थापित by the swr 2009, a `` blended malt स्कॉच व्हिस्की '' is a मिश्रण of single malt Scotch whiskies, not a mixture of malted barley whisky and non-barley whisky ; those are called `` blended Scotch whisky '', without the word `` malt ''.
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' प्रयुक्त अंतर्गत the prior labelling conventions.
The age statement on a बोतल of सिंगल malt स्कॉच is the क्रमांक of सालो the whisky spent maturing in cask.
As बहुत few whiskies हैं बोतलबंद इससे a सिंगल cask the आयु बयान reflects the age of the youngest malt in the mix.
A texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, for उदाहरण, the खूबसूरत 'northern लाइट्स ' कॉर्ड..., in a बहुत दिलचस्प वितरण of pitches, produces a fused ध्वनि समर्थित by a निलंबित झांझ फेंकें `` ( एरिक्सन ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to अधिक परंपरागत musical बनावट, ध्वनि द्रव्यमान संयोजन `` minimizes the महत्व of व्यक्तिगत pitches in preference for texture, timbre, and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact. ''
Developed from the modernist टोन क्लस्टर और स्प्रेड to orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s और 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
Techniques which may create or be प्रयुक्त साथ ध्वनि द्रव्यमान शामिल विस्तारित तकनीकों ऐसे as मूक पीतल or स्ट्रिंग्स, आतुर tonguing, चौड़ी vibrato, चरम सीमाएँ, and glissandos.
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb, pauline oliveros ' ध्वनि पैटर्न लिये कोरस ( 1961 ), norma beecroft 's इससे सपनो of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ), and Nancy Van de Vate.
beecroft `` टुकड़ा व्यक्तिगत pitches in एहसान of a सामूहिक timbre through the उपयोग of गायन और इंस्ट्रूमेंटल क्लस्टर, choral speech, narrator, and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
A very early example is the opening of jean-féry विद्रोही 's बैले लेस elémens ( 1737–38 ), जहाँ अराजकता is represented by a धीरे cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
A later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's स्ट्रिंग quartet 1931 ( nonesuch h-71280 ) जबकि अधिक recently phill niblock 's अनेक ड्रोन आधारित music serves as an example.
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and edgard varèse प्रायः carefully scored व्यक्तिगत इंस्ट्रूमेंटल भाग so कि वे होता फ्यूज into one ensemble timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the fifties and sixties ऐसे as krzysztof penderecki 's threnody to the पीड़ितों of हिरोशिमा ( 1959 ) और györgy ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works जैसे atmosphères ( 1961 ) और उसके requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers with works using इस तकनीक शामिल henryk górecki, karel husa, witold Lutosławski, Kazimierz Serocki, and Steven Stucky.
Sound mass तकनीकों भी appear in the म्यूज़िक of जार्ज Crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
Students attending a lecture on रैखिक बीजगणित at the हेलसिंकी विश्वविद्यालयों of Technology
विद्यार्थियों in ग्रामीण सूडान, 2002
A student is a learner, or किसी जो attends an शैक्षणिक संस्था.
In some nations, the अंग्रेज़ी पद ( or इसके cognate in another भाषा ) is सुरक्षित लिये those जो attend विश्वविद्यालयों, जबकि a schoolchild अंतर्गत the आयु of अठारह is पुकारा a pupil in अंग्रेज़ी ( or an equivalent in other languages ), although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student.
in इसके widest उपयोग, छात्र is प्रयुक्त for anyone who is learning.
Australia is a continent comprising मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया, तस्मानिया, नई गिनी, seram, संभवतः timor, और neighbouring islands.
The continent is sometimes ज्ञात in तकनीकी contexts by the names sahul, australinea or meganesia, to फर्क it इससे the Australian mainland.
It is the smallest of the seven परंपरागत महाद्वीपों in the अंग्रेज़ी conception.
New Zealand is not part of the महाद्वीप of ऑस्ट्रेलिया, लकिन of the पृथक, submerged महाद्वीप of zealandia.
Zealandia and Australia हैं दोनो भाग of the wider regions ज्ञात as australasia और महासागरीय.
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas जिससे divide it into अनेक landmasses — the अराफुरा समुद्र और टोरेस जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई गिनी, और बास जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड Australia and Tasmania.
When sea levels were lower during the Pleistocene ice age, सहित the पिछला glacial अधिकतम परिचय 18,000 BC, they were connected by dry land.
During the past ten thousand years, rising sea स्तर overflowed the lowlands और अलग the महाद्वीप into आज 's low-lying arid to semi-arid मेनलैंड और the दो mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania.
Geologically, a continent extends to the edge of its continental शेल्फ, so the now-separate आइलैंड्स हैं माना भाग of the महाद्वीप.
Due to the स्प्रेड of पशु, fungi और पौधे आरपार the सिंगल pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related biota.
Central Park is nearly twice as बिग as the संसार 's second-smallest देश, मोनाको.
historically इसके टंकी यहूद महत्वपूर्ण components of the city 's water supply.
पर्यावरणीय मुद्दे in नई यॉर्क नगर हैं प्रभावित by the नगर 's आकार, घनत्व, abundant पब्लिक परिवहन अवसंरचना, and location at the mouth of the Hudson River.
नई यॉर्क 's जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व रै environmental pros and cons.
It facilitates the उच्चतम द्रव्यमान पारगमन उपयोग in the संयुक्त राज्य, but also concentrates pollution.
गैसोलीन खपत in the नगर is at the रेट the नेशनल औसत थी in the 1920s, और greenhouse gas emissions are a fraction of the national average, at 7.1 metric tons per person per year, below San Francisco, at 11.2 metric tons, and the national average, at 24.5 metric tons.
New York City accounts for only 1 % of United States ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions जबकि आवास 2.7 % of इसके जनसांख्यिकी.
In September 2012, नई यॉर्क थी नामित the # 1 `` अमेरिका 's dirtiest नगर, '' by a travel+leisure readership सर्वेक्षण कि रेटेड the पर्यावरणीय विशेषता of 35 prominent cities in the United States.
Atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of and the most populous city in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया, साथ an अनुमानित 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 432,427.
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area, home to 5,457,831 लोगों और the नवीं largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त States.
Atlanta is the काउंटी सीट of fulton काउंटी, और a छोटी portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County.
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of दो रेलरोड लाइनों, और the नगर रोज़ इससे the राख of the सिविल युद्ध to become a नेशनल बीच of commerce.
In the decades following the Civil Rights गति, दौरान जिससे the नगर अर्जित a प्रतिष्ठा as `` too व्यस्त to नफ़रत '' लिये the प्रगतिशील दृश्य of इसके नागरिकों और नेताओ, अटलांटा attained international prominence.
Atlanta is the primary परिवहन हब of the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, via राजमार्ग, रेलरोड, और एयर, साथ hartsfield–jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र being the world 's busiest airport since 1998.
Atlanta is माना an `` अल्फा ( - ) संसार नगर, '' और, साथ a सकल घरेलू उत्पाद of us $ 270 अरब, atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation.
Although Atlanta’s economy is माना विविध, प्रबल सेक्टर शामिल लोजिस्टिक्स, पेशेवर और कारोबार सेवाएं, मीडिया operations, government administration, and higher education.
topographically, अटलांटा is चिह्नित by रोलिंग पहाड़ियाँ और dense tree coverage.
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods, initially spurred by the 1996 ओलंपिक, रै intensified in the 21st सदी, altering the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी, politics, and culture.
A 1947 propaganda comic book published by the catechetical गिल्ड शैक्षणिक समाज उठाने the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making आरोपों of disloyalty, subversion, or देशद्रोह बगैर उचित लिहाज़ for evidence.
It also means `` the practice of making unfair दोषारोपण or using अन्यायपूर्ण investigative तकनीकों, विशेषकर in अनुक्रम to सीमित dissent or राजनैतिक criticism. ''
The term has its origins in the period in the United States ज्ञात as the दूसरी रेड scare, स्थायी roughly इससे 1950 to 1956 और characterized by heightened fears of कम्युनिस्ट influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents.
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of रिपब्लिकन u.s. सीनेटर जोसेफ मैकार्थी of विस्कॉन्सिन, `` mccarthyism '' जल्द took on a broader meaning, describing the excesses of similar efforts.
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless, unsubstantiated आरोपों, as खूब as demagogic हमले on the अक्षर or राष्ट्रभक्ति of राजनैतिक adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, thousands of Americans were अभियुक्त of होने साम्यवादियों or कम्युनिस्ट sympathizers और became the विषय of आक्रामक investigations और questioning पहले सरकारी or private-industry panels, committees and agencies.
The primary targets of ऐसे suspicions यहूद सरकारी कर्मचारी, those in the entertainment industry, educators and union activists.
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence, और the स्तर of threat posed by a व्यक्ति 's रियल or supposed वामपंथी एसोसिएशन or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated.
Many people suffered loss of नियुक्ति and/or विनाश of उनके करियर ; some even suffered imprisonment.
Most of these punishments came about through विचारण verdicts बाद विकल, कानून कि होता be घोषित असंवैधानिक, dismissals लिये कारण बाद घोषित illegal or actionable, or extra-legal procedures that would come into general disrepute.
The most famous examples of McCarthyism शामिल the भाषणों, investigations, और hearings of सीनेटर मैकार्थी खुद ; the हॉलीवुड ब्लैकलिस्ट, संबद्ध साथ hearings conducted by the हाउस un-american क्रियाएँ कमेटी ( HUAC ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover.
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural phenomenon कि प्रभावित सब स्तर of समाज और थी the सोर्स of a ग्रेट सौदे of बहस और विरोध in the United States.
Napoleon is a fictional अक्षर और the प्रमुख विपक्षी in जार्ज ऑरवेल 's एनिमल फार्म.
While he is at first a common farm pig, he gets rid of स्नोबॉल, another सुअर जिससे साझा the power.
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their मास्टर्स to आखिरकार become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm, '' which he turns into a dictatorship.
वरुण लोगो
The वरुण कनाडा प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग इससे लैब्स और विश्वविद्यालयों around the world.
Along with its सिस्टर प्रोजेक्ट, शुक्र, वरुण offers a अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry आउट उनके शोध, जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely operated crawler.
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s, initially the प्रभाग 's उच्चतम trim लकीर लकिन, starting in 1955, the न्यूनतम trim लकीर.
In the 1960s, the नाम थी transferred to चकमा 's mid-size entry.
ARM9 is an भुजा वास्तुकला 32-bit RISC CPU family.
Commonwealth is a traditional English पद लिये a राजनैतिक जातियाँ संस्थापित लिये the आम शुभ.
historically, it रै sometimes महरूम synonymous with `` republic ``.
More recently it has been used for fraternal एसोसिएशन of कुछ sovereign राष्ट्र.
Most notably, the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र, an संघ primarily of पूर्व members of the British Empire, is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth ''.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as सितंबर 11, सितंबर 11th, or 9/11 ) यहूद a श्रेणी of चार समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could be flown into इमारतें in आत्महत्या हमले.
Two of those planes, अमरीकी एयरलाइंस उड़ान 11 और संयुक्त एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175, यहूद क्रैश into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें, respectively, of the World Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or पूरा पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल, as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन अन्य विशाल surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of रक्षा ), अग्रणी to a आंशिक पतन in इसके पश्चिमी side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, थी targeted at the संयुक्त राज्य कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, बाद its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, सहित the 227 नागरिकों और 19 hijackers सवार the four planes.
Suspicion जल्दी गिरी on al-qaeda.
Although the group 's नेता, ओसामा बिन लादेन, initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों in सऊदी अरब, और प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the हमले by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक और आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान, जिससे had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened उनके anti-terrorism विधान और विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन powers.
Having evaded capture for सालो, बिन लादेन थी स्तिथ और मारे by u.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर मैनहटन और था a significant प्रभाव on वैश्विक बाज़ार.
Cleanup of the संसार व्यापार बीच साईट थी समाप्त in may 2002, और the प्रस्तुतीकरण थी repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the नेशनल सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क, the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल, और the उड़ान 93 नेशनल मेमोरियल in पेन्सिलवेनिया.
After a lengthy विलंब, the एक संसार व्यापार बीच is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Crater झील नेशनल पार्क is a संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल Park located in southern Oregon.
Established in 1902, Crater Lake National Park is the fifth oldest नेशनल पार्क in the संयुक्त राज्य और the तभी एक in the राज्य of Oregon.
The park encompasses the caldera of crater झील, a remnant of a नष्ट ज्वालामुखी, माउंट mazama, और the surrounding hills and forests.
The lake is deep at its deepest point, which makes it the deepest झील in the संयुक्त राज्य, the दूसरी deepest in उत्तर अमेरिका और the नवीं deepest in the संसार.
Crater Lake is often referred to as the सातवाँ deepest झील in the संसार, लकिन इस पूर्व लिस्टिंग excludes the लगभग गहराई of subglacial झील वोस्तोक in अंटार्कटिक, जिससे resides under nearly of ice, and the recent report of a maximum depth for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin, located on the border of Chile and Argentina.
However, जब comparing इसके औसत गहराई of to the औसत गहराई of अन्य गहन झीलों, crater झील becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world.
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago during the हिंसक climactic eruptions और subsequent पतन of माउंट mazama और the अपेक्षाकृत नम जलवायु कि is ठेठ of the crest of the Cascade Range.
The caldera रिम सीमाएँ in उन्नयन from.
The United राज्य geological सर्वेक्षण benchmarked उन्नयन of the lake surface itself is.
इस नेशनल पार्क encompasses.
crater झील रै no स्ट्रीम flowing into or out of it.
All जल कि enters the झील is आखिरकार lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage.
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue, and the lake is re-filled entirely इससे सीधा वर्षण in the रूप of हिम and rain.
The Supreme अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य is the उच्चतम अदालत in the United States.
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and over state अदालत मामले involving मुद्दे of संघीय विधि, और असली क्षेत्राधिकार over a छोटी range of cases.
The Court, which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., consists of a मुख्य इंसाफ और आठ संबद्ध justices जो हैं मनोनीत by the अध्यक्ष and confirmed by the United States Senate.
Once appointed, justices have जीवन कार्यकाल जबतक वे इस्तीफा, रिटायर, or हैं removed after impeachment.
Conroe is the सीट of मोंटगोमरी काउंटी और जलप्रपात within the metropolitan area.
It is स्तिथ परिचय उत्तर of Houston.
as of जुलाई 2011, the नगर जनसांख्यिकी थी 58,973, up from 36,811 in 2000.
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the latter दिन संत गति, जिससे adherents मानना contains कृतियाँ of प्राचीन नबियों जो जिया on the अमरीकी continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421.
It was first published in March 1830 by जोसेफ स्मिथ as the किताब of mormon : an खाता लिखा by the हाथ of mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and also according to the book 's narrative, the Book of Mormon थी originally लिखा in वरना अनजान वर्ण referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates.
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book, a man named Moroni, buried it in a hill in present-day नई यॉर्क और तब लौटे to धरती in 1827 as an देवदूत, revealing the स्थान of the किताब to स्मिथ और instructing उसे to अनुवाद और disseminate it as प्रमाण of the बहाली of मसीह 's सच्चा church in the latter days.
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal चर्चाएँ on विषय ऐसे as the पतन of आदम और संध्या, the प्रकृति of the प्रायश्चित, eschatology, मोचन इससे शारीरिक और आध्यात्मिक मौत, and the organization of the latter-day church.
The pivotal इवेंट of the किताब is an रूप of यीशु मसीह to the americas shortly after his resurrection.
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the Latter Day Saint गति, the denominations of जिससे typically लिहाज़ the टेक्स्ट नहीं तभी as scripture लकिन भी as a ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड of परमेश्वर 's dealings साथ the प्राचीन inhabitants of the Americas.
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books, titled बाद the individuals नामित as प्राथमिक लेखक और, in most versions, divided into chapters and verses.
it is लिखा in अंग्रेज़ी, बहुत समान to the जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी भाषाई स्टाइल of the किंग James Version of the Bible, and has since been fully or partially translated into 108 languages.
An आयोजिक रैंक ( भी ज्ञात as an आयोजिक ग्रेड or आयोजिक रेट ) is, in सबसे militaries, कोई रैंक below that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer.
The term can also be समावेशी of non-commissioned अधिकारियों.
In most cases, आयोजिक सेवा कर्मियों perform कार्य विशिष्ट to उनके अपना occupational specialty, as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers.
`` कया a अद्भुत संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा by bob thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as a सिंगल in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( thiele as a निर्माता और वेइस as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the ग्रैमी हॉल of Fame in 1999.
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory लेन म्यूज़िक समूह, कार्लिन म्यूज़िक corp., और कीड़ा म्यूज़िक, Inc.
1908 पोस्टर विज्ञापन gaumont 's sound films.
the chronomégaphone, designed लिये विशाल हॉल, employed संपीडित air to amplify the recorded sound.
a ध्वनि फिल्मी is a गति चित्र साथ synchronized ध्वनि, or ध्वनि technologically coupled to image, as opposed to a silent film.
the पहला ज्ञात पब्लिक प्रदर्शनी of प्रक्षिप्त ध्वनि films took प्लेस in Paris in 1900, but decades would pass before sound motion pictures were made commercially practical.
Reliable synchronization थी मुश्किल to achieve साथ the जल्दी sound-on-disc प्रणालियों, और प्रवर्धन और रिकॉर्डिंग quality were also inadequate.
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the पहला वाणिज्यिक स्क्रीनिंग of छोटी गति तस्वीरें using the technology, which took place in 1923.
The प्राथमिक कदम in the व्यावसायीकरण of ध्वनि सिनेमा यहूद लिया in the mid- to late 1920s.
At पहला, the ध्वनि films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking तस्वीरें '', or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length movies with recorded sound included only music and effects.
the पहला विशेषता फिल्मी originally प्रस्तुत as a talkie थी the जैज़ सिंगर, released in October 1927.
A major hit, it was made with vitaphone, the अग्रणी ब्रांड of sound-on-disc प्रौद्योगिकी.
Sound-on-film, however, होता जल्द become the मानक लिये talking तस्वीरें.
By the जल्दी 1930s, the टॉकीज़ were a global phenomenon.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, वे helped सुरक्षित हॉलीवुड 's स्थिति as एक of the संसार 's सबसे शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial प्रणालियों ( see Cinema of the United States ).
In Europe ( and, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers and आलोचकों, जो चिंतित कि a फ़ोकस on संवाद होता subvert the अद्वितीय aesthetic virtues of soundless सिनेमा.
In Japan, where the popular film tradition एकीकृत मूक फिल्म और सजीव गायन प्रदर्शन, talking तस्वीरें were slow to take root.
In India, sound was the transformative element that led to the रैपिड विस्तार of the स्वदेश 's फिल्मी industry—the सबसे उत्पादक ऐसे उद्योग in the संसार चूंकि the जल्दी 1960s.
African people are natives or निवासियों of अफ़्रीकी और लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent.
The Australian Recording Industry Association म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार ( commonly ज्ञात as aria म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार or aria पुरस्कार ) is an सालाना श्रेणी of पुरस्कार नाइट्स celebrating the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई म्यूज़िक उद्योग, put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ).
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( ये हैं कया is प्रायः होने referred to as `` the aria पुरस्कार '' ) as खूब as ठीक कला पुरस्कार और कारीगर पुरस्कार ( आयोजित separately इससे 2004 ), आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और aria हॉल of कीर्ति – आयोजित separately इससे 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, aria introduced पब्लिक voted awards for the first time.
Winning, or even being nominated for, an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist, and usually increases रिकॉर्डिंग बिक्री several-fold – in 2005, लिये उदाहरण, बाद बेन ली जीती तीन पुरस्कार, उसके एल्बम जाग is the नई नींद कूद इससे no. 31 to no. 5 in the aria चार्ट, इसके उच्चतम स्थिति.
for-profit शिक्षा ( भी ज्ञात as the शिक्षा सेवाएं उद्योग or मालिकाना शिक्षा ) refers to educational institutions operated by private, profit -seeking businesses.
There are तीन प्रकार of for-profit स्कूलों.
One type is known as an educational management संगठन ( भावनाएं ), और ये हैं प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शैक्षणिक institutions.
EMOs work with school districts or charter schools, using पब्लिक निधि to वित्त परिचालन.
The बहुमत of for-profit स्कूलों in the k–12 सेक्टर in अमेरिका फलन as emos, and have grown in number in the mid-2000s.
The other major category of for-profit स्कूलों हैं post-secondary संस्थानों जिससे operate as व्यवसायों, receiving fees from each student they enroll.
A third type of for-profit स्कूलों, जिससे is कम प्रचलित in the संयुक्त States, are K–12 schools which operate as businesses.
EMOs function differently from चार्टर स्कूलों निर्मित in अनुक्रम to carry आउट a particular शिक्षण pedagogy ; सबसे चार्टर स्कूलों are mission-oriented, while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented.
While supporters argue that the लाभ motive encourages दक्षता, इस व्यवस्था रै भी drawn विवाद and criticism.
Kevin कैरी, निदेशक of the शिक्षा नीति कार्यक्रम of the नई अमरीकी न्यास कहा in a 2010 कालम in the वृत्तान्त of उच्चतर शिक्षा कि `` for-profits मौजूद in विशाल भाग to फिक्स शैक्षणिक मार्केट failures left by traditional institutions, and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore. ''
He also noted that `` There 's no शक कि the worst for-profits हैं निर्मम exploiting the commodified college degree.
But they did n't commodify it in the पहला प्लेस. ''
amendment xxii in the नेशनल Archives
The twenty-second amendment of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान सेट a पद सीमा for election to the office of President of the United States.
Congress passed the amendment on कूच 21, 1947.
It was ratified by the आवश्यक क्रमांक of राज्य on February 27, 1951.
इस is an एपीसोड मार्गदर्शिका लिये the दुश्मनी series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
This list encompasses every episode, beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi, followed by the शीर्षक प्रयुक्त in the अंग्रेज़ी उतावले संस्करण airing in the संयुक्त राज्य on कार्टून Network.
A short summary will follow, introducing the एपीसोड और referring to कुछ of the ढकोसला, लकिन नहीं giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
All names और कुछ of the सन्दर्भ होगा be the ones प्रयुक्त इससे the english-language version to avoid confusion.
Japanese names may be प्रस्तुत बाद the डब नाम in कोष्ठक.
इस आलेख is परिचय the पब्लिक park in New York City.
For other uses, see सेंट्रल पार्क ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Central Park is a public पार्क at the बीच of मैनहटन in New York City.
The park initially खोली in 1857, on of city-owned land ( it is 843 acres today ).
In 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert vaux जीती a डिज़ाइन प्रतियोगिता to improve और विस्तार the पार्क साथ a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan.
निर्माण began the वही साल, जारी दौरान the American Civil War, and was completed in 1873.
सेंट्रल पार्क is the सबसे visited urban park in the United States.
designated a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क in 1962, the पार्क is फिलहाल managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the city government.
The Conservancy is a non-profit संगठन कि contributes 83.5 % of सेंट्रल पार्क 's $ 37.5 लाख सालाना बजट, और employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff.
TracFone Wireless, Inc. is a prepaid wireless service provider operating in the संयुक्त राज्य सहित प्यूर्टो रीको और the us वर्जिन आइलैंड्स और is a subsidiary of मैक्सिको 's largest दूरसंचार प्रदाता, américa Móvil.
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ), TracFone बेतार holds अनेक समझौतों साथ the us largest बेतार दूरसंचार कंपनियाँ to utilize उनके संजाल to provide सेवा सहित those of Verizon, AT & T, Sprint, and T-Mobile.
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under अनेक ब्रांड्स जिससे प्रत्येक भी प्रस्ताव distinctive सेवा योजनाएँ, the ब्रांड्स शामिल tracfone, net10 Wireless, Straight Talk, SafeLink Wireless, Telcel América and Simple Mobile.
a पकड़ें dredge
Dredging is an excavation कार्यकलाप or आपरेशन प्रायः carried आउट at तनिक partly भाटे, in उथले समंदर or भैस water areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location.
This technique is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to रखना जलमार्गों navigable.
It is also used as a way to replenish sand on कुछ पब्लिक समुद्रतट, जहाँ बालू रै महरूम खोया क्युकी of coastal erosion.
dredging is भी प्रयुक्त as a तकनीक लिये fishing for certain species of edible clams and crabs, see fishing dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the americas ) is कोई यंत्र, यंत्र, or पोत कि is प्रयुक्त to excavate और हटाएँ सामग्री from the bottom of a body of water.
For उदाहरण, a स्कूप संलग्न to the समाप्त of a रस्सी or ध्रुव by जिससे a man can draw sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger.
Developing this विचार further, a motorized क्रेन equipped साथ a खीचें बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) that is used to scoop material from the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger.
The crane could be स्तिथ on the बैंको, or शायद आरोहित on a barge.
If the क्रेन is आरोहित on a barge, the संपूर्ण पोत is referred to as a dredger.
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ), जिससे हैं carried दूर इससे the dredged area.
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes ( प्रायः construction-related ), और रै भी historically निभाई a significant भूमिका in सुनहरा खनन.
Dredging can create disturbance in जलीय ecosystems, प्रायः साथ adverse impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km दौरान the climactic फटना at माउंट pinatubo, फिलीपीन in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or क्रस्ट, जिससे allows hot मैग्मा, volcanic राख और गैसों to एस्केप इससे the मैग्मा कक्ष below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally मिला जहाँ tectonic प्लेटों हैं diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for उदाहरण the mid-atlantic लकीरें, रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By कंट्रास्ट, ज्वालामुखी हैं प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic plates slide past one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of प्लेटों, e.g., in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी दरार, the कुएं gray-clearwater volcanic फ़ील्ड और the रिओ ग्रांडे Rift in North America.
इस प्रकार of volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` थाली hypothesis '' volcanism.
volcanism दूर इससे थाली सीमाएँ रै भी महरूम समझाया as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can पोज़ अनेक जोखिमों, नहीं तभी in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those साथ जेट इंजन जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, वे भी अवशोषित ऊष्मा radiated up इससे the धरती, thereby वार्मिंग the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
Benedict अर्नाल्ड ( जून 14, 1801 ) थी a सामान्य दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध जो originally fought for the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army.
While a general on the American side, he obtained command of the fort at West पाइंट, नई यॉर्क, और नियोजित to आत्मसमर्पण it to the अंग्रेजों शक्तियां.
बाद the योजना थी उजागर in सितंबर 1780, he थी commissioned into the British Army as a brigadier general.
Born in कनेक्टिकट, अर्नाल्ड थी a व्यापारी ऑपरेटिंग जहाजों on the अटलांटिक Ocean when the war broke out in 1775.
After joining the growing army outside Boston, he distinguished खुद through अधिनियमों of प्रज्ञा और वीरता.
His actions included the कैप्चर of फोर्ट ticonderoga in 1775, रक्षात्मक और delaying tactics despite खोने the बैटल of valcour द्वीप on झील champlain in 1776, the बैटल of ridgefield, कनेक्टिकट ( बाद जिससे he थी प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य ), परिचालन in राहत of the घेरा of Fort Stanwix, and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777, in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years.
Despite Arnold 's successes, he was passed over for प्रमोशन by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस जबकि अन्य अधिकारियों claimed क्रेडिट लिये कुछ of उसके accomplishments.
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of corruption or other malfeasance, लकिन सबसे प्रायः he थी acquitted in औपचारिक पूछताछ.
Congress investigated his accounts and found he was indebted to कॉंग्रेस बाद बिता much of उसके अपना धन on the युद्ध प्रयत्न.
Frustrated and कड़वा, अर्नाल्ड decided to बदलें पहलू in 1779, और खोली secret negotiations with the British.
In July 1780, he was offered, जारी to pursue और थी awarded कमांड of West Point.
Arnold 's scheme to आत्मसमर्पण the फोर्ट to the अंग्रेजों थी उजागर जब अमरीकी शक्तियां captured अंग्रेजों प्रमुख जॉन André carrying papers that revealed the plot.
Upon learning of André 's capture, Arnold fled down the Hudson River to the British sloop-of-war गिद्ध, narrowly बचने कैप्चर by the शक्तियां of जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, जो था महरूम alerted to the plot.
Arnold received a आयोग as a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the अंग्रेजों फौज, an सालाना पेंशन of £360, और a lump योग of over £6,000.
he led अंग्रेजों शक्तियां on छापे in वर्जिनिया, और विरूद्ध नई लंदन and Groton, Connecticut, before the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown.
In the शीत of 1782, अर्नाल्ड स्थानांतरित to लंदन साथ उसके दूसरी बीवी, मार्गरेट `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold.
He was well received by King George iii और the tories लकिन खीझ upon by the whigs.
In 1787, he returned to the व्यापारी कारोबार साथ उसके बेटे रिचर्ड और हेनरी in संत John, New Brunswick.
He returned to लंदन to settle permanently in 1791, जहाँ he died ten years later.
Because of the रास्ता he बदला पहलू, उसके नाम जल्दी became a in the United States for treason or betrayal.
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the ambiguous nature of कुछ of the memorials कि have been placed in his honor.
Curtis Montague Schilling ( born November 14, 1966 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल right-handed पिचर और Video Game developer.
He helped lead the Philadelphia फ़िलीज़ to the संसार श्रेणी in और जीती संसार श्रेणी championships in साथ the एरिज़ोना डाइमन्डबैक्स and in and with the Boston Red Sox.
schilling रिटायर्ड साथ a करियर postseason record of 11–2.
His.846 postseason जीतना प्रतिशत is a major-league रिकार्ड among pitchers with at least 10 decisions.
After retiring, he founded Green दानव खेल जिससे थी renamed 38 studios.
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012, but just three months later, Schilling laid off his entire स्टाफ amid कठोर वित्तीय परेशानियों कि resulted in the कम्पनी लापता payroll the पिछला week.
Star युद्धों is an अमरीकी एपिक स्पेस ओपेरा मताधिकार centered on a film series created by George Lucas.
The फिल्मी श्रेणी रै शाखित a मीडिया मताधिकार बाहर the फिल्मी श्रेणी पुकारा the विस्तारित ब्रह्मांड सहित किताबे, television series, computer and video games, and comic books.
These supplements to the film trilogies have resulted in significant विकास of the श्रेणी ' fictional universe.
These मीडिया रखा the मताधिकार क्रियाशील in the अंतरिम between the film trilogies.
The franchise portrays a galaxy कि is वर्णित as दूर, दूर दूर in the दूर पास्ट.
It commonly portrays जेडी as a प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ, in conflict with the Sith, their evil counterpart.
Their weapon of चुनाव, the lightsaber, is commonly पहचाना in popular culture.
The fictional universe also contains many विषयवस्तु, विशेषकर प्रभाव of दर्शनशास्त्र and religion.
The first film in the series was originally released on May 25, 1977, अंतर्गत the शीर्षक स्टार युद्धों, by 20th सदी फॉक्स, और became a विश्वव्यापी पॉप संस्कृति घटना, followed by दो सिक्वेल, released at three-year intervals.
Sixteen years after the रिलीज of the त्रयी 's फाइनल फिल्मी, the पहला in a नई प्रीक्वेल त्रयी of films was released.
The three prequel films were also released at three-year intervals, साथ the फाइनल फिल्मी of the त्रयी released on May 19, 2005.
In October 2012, The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced कि it होता उपज तीन नई films, साथ the पहला फिल्मी, स्टार युद्धों एपीसोड सात, नियोजित लिये रिलीज in 2015.
20th Century Fox still retains the वितरण अधिकारों to the पहला दो स्टार युद्धों trilogies, owning स्थाई अधिकारों लिये the असली फिल्मी एपीसोड iv : a नई आशा, जबकि पकड़कर the अधिकारों to एपीसोड I–III, V and VI until May 2020.
Reactions to the असली त्रयी यहूद ज़्यादातर धनात्मक, साथ the पिछला फिल्मी होने माना the weakest, जबकि the प्रीक्वेल त्रयी प्राप्त a अधिक मिश्रित प्रतिक्रिया, with most of the praise being for the final movie, according to most review aggregator websites.
All six of the main films in the श्रेणी यहूद भी मनोनीत लिये or जीती अकादमी पुरस्कार.
All of the main films have been box office successes, with the overall box office आय उत्पन्न by the स्टार युद्धों films ( सहित the नाट्य स्टार युद्धों : the क्लोन युद्धों ) totalling $ 4.49 अरब, बनाना it the third-highest-grossing film series.
The success has also led to अनेक re-releases in थिएटर लिये the series.
Plateletpheresis ( अधिक accurately पुकारा thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, हालांकि ये names हैं rarely प्रयुक्त ) is the प्रक्रम of collecting thrombocytes, more commonly called platelets, a component of blood involved in blood clotting.
The term specifically refers to the विधि of collecting the प्लेटलेट्स, जिससे is performed by a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in रक्त दान कि separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor.
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating गंभीर जटिलताओं इससे bleeding और hemorrhage in मरीजों जो have विकार manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction.
This process may also be used therapeutically to treat disorders resulting in extraordinarily ऊँची platelet रिश्तो ऐसे as essential thrombocytosis.
In computer networking, a port is an application-specific or process-specific तन्त्र construct सेवारत as a संचार endpoint in a कंप्यूटर 's host operating system.
A port is associated with an IP address of the मेजबान, as खूब as the प्रकार of प्रोटोकॉल प्रयुक्त लिये communication.
The purpose of ports is to uniquely पहचानो अलग अनुप्रयोग or प्रक्रियाओं कार्यशील on a सिंगल कंप्यूटर और thereby enable उन्हें to share a सिंगल physical connection to a packet-switched network like the Internet.
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport Layer protocols, such as the हस्तांतरण कंट्रोल प्रोटोकॉल ( टीसीपी ) और the उपयोक्ता datagram प्रोटोकॉल ( यूडीपी ) of the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल Suite.
A बंदरगाहों is पहचाना लिये प्रत्येक पता और प्रोटोकॉल by a 16-bit क्रमांक, commonly known as the port number.
The port number, added to a computer 's IP address, completes the गंतव्य पता लिये a संचार session.
That is, data packets are routed across the संजाल to a विशिष्ट गंतव्य ip पता, और तब, upon reaching the गंतव्य कंप्यूटर, हैं further routed to the विशिष्ट प्रक्रम बंधी to the गंतव्य port number.
Note that it is the संयोजन of ip पता और बंदरगाहों क्रमांक साथ कि must be globally unique.
Thus, different IP addresses or प्रोटोकॉल may उपयोग the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक लिये संचार ; e.g., on a दिए मेजबान or इंटरफ़ेस यूडीपी और टीसीपी may उपयोग the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक, or on a host with two interfaces, both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number.
Of the thousands of enumerated ports, about 250 well-known पोर्ट हैं सुरक्षित by सम्मेलन to पहचानो विशिष्ट service types on a host.
In the client-server model of application architecture, ports are used to provide a multiplexing सेवा on प्रत्येक server-side बंदरगाहों क्रमांक कि संजाल क्लाइंट कनेक्ट to लिये सेवा दीक्षा, बाद जिससे संचार can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers.
क्षेत्रफल कोड 479 is the टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड सेवारत तेरह काउंटी in उत्तरपश्चिम अरकंसास, सहित the शहरों of फोर्ट स्मिथ, fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the second, third, fourth, eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state, respectively.
It was निर्मित in 2002 in a विभाजित इससे क्षेत्रफल code 501.
Area code 479 serves Benton, Carroll ( split with area code 870 ), Crawford, Franklin, Johnson, Logan, Madison, polk, पोप, स्कॉट, सेबेस्टियन, वॉशिंगटन और चिल्लाते काउंटी in अरकंसास.
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal चार्जिंग दस्तावेज़ in the उपस्थिति of the प्रतिवादी to inform the प्रतिवादी of the आरोप विरूद्ध उसे or उसके.
In response to arraignment, the accused is अपेक्षित to डालें a दलील.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, लकिन वे generally शामिल `` अपराधी '', `` नहीं अपराधी '', और the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no प्रतियोगिता ) और the `` alford दलील `` हैं अनुमत in कुछ circumstances.
In England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Australia, arraignment is the first of ग्यारह चरण in a दण्ड विचारण, और involves the क्लर्क of the अदालत पढना आउट the indictment.
The defendant is asked whether he or वो pleads अपराधी or नहीं अपराधी to प्रत्येक charge.
In federal courts of the United राज्य, arraignment takes place in two stages.
the पहला is पुकारा the आरंभिक arraignment और जरूर लो प्लेस भीतर 48 घंटों of an व्यक्तिगत 's गिरफ़्तार, 72 घंटों if the व्यक्तिगत was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday.
During this arraignment the defendant is informed of the स्थगित विधिक आरोप और is सूचित of उसके or उसके सही to retain counsel.
The presiding judge also decides at कया राशि, if कोई, to नियत जमानत.
During the second arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or pia, the प्रतिवादी is अनुमत to enter a plea.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 अक्तूबर 1400 ), ज्ञात as the पिता of अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य, is widely माना the महानतम अंग्रेज़ी कवि of the मध्य आयु और थी the पहला कवि to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
While he achieved fame during his आजीवन as an लेखक, पारस, कीमियागर और astronomer, composing a वैज्ञानिक treatise on the astrolabe लिये उसके टेन year-old बेटे Lewis, Chaucer also maintained an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat, courtier and diplomat.
Among his many works, जिससे शामिल the किताब of the duchess, the हाउस of कीर्ति, the लेजेंड of शुभ महिलाओं और troilus and Criseyde, he is best known today for The Canterbury Tales.
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular, Middle अंग्रेज़ी, at a समय जब the प्रबल साहित्यिक भाषाएं in इंग्लैण्ड यहूद French and Latin.
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard कि प्रभावित उत्तरी इलिनोइस और उत्तरपश्चिम इंडियाना, u.S. on जनवरी 13 – January 14, 1979.
of हिम गिरी on जनवरी 13 अलोन, सेटिंग a new record for snow in one calendar day.
By the समाप्त of जनवरी 14, of हिम had fallen.
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the rest of January and फ़रवरी resulted in frozen ट्रैक्स throughout the शिकागो 'L ' system.
Commuters crowded onto cta बसें, जल्दी overwhelming क्षमता, resulting in usual बस commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours.
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the गलियों, the overcrowded बसें यहूद obliged to लो numerous detours, adding अतिरिक्त time to the commute.
deployment of plows थी significantly विलम्बित और जब वे आखिरकार appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall.
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the अगला 2 महीने, causing जारी पब्लिक पारगमन देरी और significant समस्याएं साथ कचरा संग्रहण.
The नगर 's अपर्याप्त जवाब to the blizzard थी blamed primarily on महापौर माइकल bilandic, जो था assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley.
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne, Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic primary ( जो था previously worked साथ bilandic in the डाले प्रशासन और महरूम fired by bilandic जब the दो could नहीं मिलेंगी साथ ), capitalized on इस और गई on to शिकस्त Bilandic in the February 27 primary.
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day हैं विभाजित into दो अवधि : a.m. ( इससे the लैटिन ante meridiem, अर्थ `` पहले midday '' ) और p.m. ( post meridiem, `` after midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 hours गिने : 12 ( एक्टिंग as शून्य ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour clock was विकसित over समय इससे the mid-second मिलेनियम bc to the 16th century AD.
Health बिता प्रति capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, साथ the us और कनाडा compared amongst other first world nations.
तुलना of the स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य are often made by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health care प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed इसके प्रणाली in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada, on दोनो a per-capita आधार और as a प्रतिशत of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कनाडा थी US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. खर्च 15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कि साल ; कनाडा खर्च 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in कनाडा थी financed by सरकारी, बनाम 46 % in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल कनाडाई बिता ( पब्लिक और निजी ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have come to different conclusions परिचय the परिणाम of इस disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada और the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल मिला कि `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S., लकिन वहीँ is बहस परिचय the underlying कल्याणकारी of ये मतभेद.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health, the वितरण of स्वास्थ्य, the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय योगदान '', क्रमित कनाडा 30th और the us 37th among 191 सदस्य nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of दो समूह साथ अलग जातिगत मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining जिससे healthcare प्रणाली is superior.
The जो 's पढ़ाई विधि were criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus कि life-expectancy और शिशु मृत्यु चिह्नित the सबसे विश्वसनीय तरीके to compare nation-wide स्वास्थ्य परवाह, assuming the जनसांख्यिकी मेकअप is समान, a हाल रपट by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of प्रायः बालदार और बहुत विशाल arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार of मकड़ियों, of which approximately 900 species have been identified.
This article only describes members of theraphosidae, हालांकि कुछ अन्य सदस्यों of the वही suborder हैं commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
सबसे प्रजाति of tarantulas हैं नहीं खतरनाक to humans, and some species have become popular in the exotic pet trade.
The ton is a ईकाई of माप.
It has a long इतिहास और रै acquired a क्रमांक of meanings और उपयोग over the years.
It is used principally as a ईकाई of वज़न, और as a unit of volume.
It can also be used as a माप of उर्जा, लिये ट्रक वर्गीकरण, or as a colloquial term.
It is निकला इससे the tun, the पद लागू to a बैरल of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 l ), जिससे could तौल around 2,000 पाउंड ( 900 kg ) और occupy कुछ of space.
In the United Kingdom the ton is पारिभाषित as ( avoirdupois पाउंड ).
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication और धीरे introduced मीट्रिक इकाई, सहित the टन ( metric ton ), a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg.
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use लिये व्यापार अनेक इकाई और शर्तें, सहित the ton और the पद `` मीट्रिक ton '' लिये `` टन ''
In the संयुक्त राज्य और formerly कनाडा a ton is defined to be.
Where confusion is संभावित, the 2240 lb ton is पुकारा `` long ton `` और the 2000 lb ton `` छोटी ton `` ; the टन is विशिष्ट by इसके स्पेलिंग, लकिन प्रायः pronounced the same as ton, hence the US term `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` मीट्रिक ton '' जब it is जरुरी to मेक the भेद.
Where accuracy is required the correct term must be used, but for many purposes this is नहीं जरुरी : the मीट्रिक और long टन differ by तभी 1.6 %, और the छोटी ton is भीतर 11 % of both.
The ton is the अधिकतम ईकाई of वज़न referred to in colloquial speech.
The term `` ton '' is भी प्रयुक्त to refer to a क्रमांक of इकाई of आवाज़, ranging from in capacity.
It can भी be प्रयुक्त as a ईकाई of उर्जा, expressed as an equivalent of coal burnt, TNT detonated, or in refrigeration, ice melted.
In ब्रिटेन, ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in अनेक contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
As a cost or a speed, a ton is widely समझा to be £100 or 100 किमी.
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship trophy awarded annually to the नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( एनएचएल ) playoff विजेता बाद the निष्कर्ष of the Stanley Cup Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of preston, then- राज्यपाल सामान्य of कनाडा, जो awarded it to कनाडा 's top-ranking amateur बर्फ हॉकी क्लबों, जिससे the संपूर्ण स्टेनली परिवार समर्थित, साथ the बेटे और बेटियां playing और promoting the game.
The पहला कप थी awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the दो पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी संगठन, the नेशनल हॉकी संघ ( नह ) और the प्रशांत coast हॉकी संघ ( pcha ), पहुँचे a सज्जनों 's अनुबंध in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup.
After a series of लीग मर्जर और फोल्ड, the स्टेनली `` प्रस्तुतीकरण कप '' थी स्थापित as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947.
वहीँ हैं दरअसल तीन स्टेनली cups : the असली कटोरी of the `` डोमिनियन हॉकी चुनौती कप '', the सत्यापित `` Presentation Cup '', and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame.
The NHL has maintained प्रभावी कंट्रोल over दोनो the ट्रॉफी itself और इसके संबद्ध trademarks.
Nevertheless, the एनएचएल करता नहीं दरअसल अपना the ट्रॉफी, लकिन instead uses it by agreement with the two Trustees of the Cup.
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup, although the लीग 's सही to outright अपना trademarks संबद्ध साथ a ट्रॉफी it करता नहीं अपना रै महरूम विवादित by कुछ विधिक विशेषज्ञ.
Unlike the ट्राफियां awarded by the अन्य तीन प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग of उत्तर अमेरिका, a new Stanley Cup is not made each year ; winners keep it until a new champion is crowned.
It is unusual among trophies, in कि it रै the names of सब of the जीतना खिलाड़ी, कोच, प्रबन्धन, और क्लबों staff engraved on its chalice.
Initially, a new band added each year caused the ट्रॉफी to grow in आकार, कमाई the उपनाम `` Stovepipe Cup ''.
In 1958 the आधुनिक one-piece कप थी designed साथ a five-band barrel which could contain 13 winning teams per band.
To avoid the स्टेनली कप इससे growing, जब the नीचे बैंड is पूरा, the oldest बैंड is removed और preserved in the हॉकी Hall of Fame, and a new blank band added to the bottom.
It has been referred to as The Cup, रब स्टेनली 's कप, the पावन grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug.
The Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and परंपराओं, the oldest of जिससे is the celebratory पीने of शैम्पेन आउट of the कप by the जीतना टोली.
The असली कटोरी थी बना of चांदी और is 18.5 सेण्टीमीटर ( 7.28 इंच ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter.
The current Stanley Cup, topped with a copy of the असली कटोरी, is बना of a चांदी और निकल मिश्रधातु ; it रै a ऊँचाई of 89.54 सेण्टीमीटर ( 35.25 इंच ) और weighs 15.5 गामा ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
चूंकि the 1914–15 ऋतु, the कप रै महरूम जीती a संयुक्त 94 times by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams.
prior to कि, the चुनौती कप थी held by nine different teams.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 टाइम्स और हैं फिलहाल the पिछला canadian-based टोली in the एनएचएल to win the cup after winning it in 1993.
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 1919 because of a स्पेनी फ्लू महामारी, और in 2005, as a consequence of the एनएचएल lockout.
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced जामुन, और the सबसे economically significant संयंत्र in the bromeliaceae परिवार.
Pineapples may be cultivated इससे a क्राउन कटिंग of the फल, संभवतः flowering in 20–24 महीने and fruiting in the following six months.
अनानास करता नहीं ripen significantly post-harvest.
pineapples हैं खपत भैस, पकाया, juiced, और preserved, और are found in a wide array of cuisines.
In addition to consumption, in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are प्रयुक्त to उपज the वस्त्र रेशा piña - employed as a घटक of वॉल पेपर और furnishings, amongst अन्य uses.
In computer science, an पूर्णांक is a datum of अभिन्न आंकड़ा प्रकार, a आंकड़ा प्रकार जिससे represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers.
Integral data प्रकार may be of अलग आकार और may or may not be allowed to contain negative values.
Integers are commonly represented in a कंप्यूटर as a समूह of शब्दकोष digits.
The size of the समूहीकरण varies so the नियत of पूर्णांक आकार उपलब्धियाँ varies between different types of computers.
Computer hardware nearly always provides a रास्ता to represent a प्रोसेसर पंजीकरण or मेमोरी address as an integer.
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a विशाल हाइड्रो सुविधा, साथ an संस्थापित क्षमता of.
Hydroelectricity is the पद referring to विद्युत उत्पन्न by hydropower ; the उत्पादन of विद्युत power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water.
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy, accounting for 16 प्रतिशत of वैश्विक विद्युत पीढी – 3,427 terawatt-hours of विद्युत उत्पादन in 2010, और is अपेक्षित to increase about 3.1 % each year for the next 25 years.
hydropower is उत्पादित in 150 देशों, साथ the asia-pacific region generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010.
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of उत्पादन in 2010, representing around 17 प्रतिशत of घरेलू electricity use.
There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 gw : the तीन gorges बांध in चीन, itaipu बांध आरपार the brazil/paraguay किनारा, और guri बांध in Venezuela.
The cost of hydroelectricity is अपेक्षाकृत कम, बनाना it a प्रतिस्पर्धी source of renewable electricity.
The average cost of electricity from a हाइड्रो संयंत्र larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 u.S. सेंट प्रति kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is भी a लचीली सोर्स of विद्युत चूंकि पौधे can be ramped up और bas बहुत जल्दी to adapt to changing energy demands.
However, damming interrupts the प्रवाह of नदियाँ और can नुक़सान लोकल ecosystems, और भवन विशाल dams और टंकी often involves displacing people and wildlife.
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the project produces no direct waste, और रै a considerably निम्नतर आउटपुट स्तर of the ग्रीनहाउस गैस कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants.
Wine लड़के at a यूनानी symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of सालो और is closely intertwined साथ the इतिहास of कृषि, cuisine, civilization and humanity itself.
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known वाइन उत्पादन occurred in कया is अभी the देश of जॉर्जिया around 7000 bce, साथ अन्य notable साइट in वृहद इरान दिनाँक 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
The world 's oldest known वाइनरी ( दिनाँक to 3000 bce ) थी खोजा in areni-1 गुफा in a mountainous area of Armenia.
url_http.
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates कि domestication of the grapevine took प्लेस दौरान the जल्दी कांस्य आयु in the Near East, Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE.
Evidence of the earliest wine production in Balkans has been uncovered at पुरातत्व साइट in उत्तरी यूनानियों ( मकदूनिया ), दिनाँक to 4500 bc.
These same साइट भी contain remnants of the संसार 's earliest evidence of crushed grapes.
In Egypt, wine became a भाग of अंकित इतिहास, playing an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in ancient ceremonial life.
Traces of wild wine dating इससे the दूसरी और पहला सहस्राब्दियों bce have भी महरूम मिला in चीन.
मोरक्कन वाइन kasher label 1930
The Jewish tradition and use of कोषेर वाइन is डेटिंग वापस to biblical टाइम्स.
The long इतिहास of the उपयोग और उत्पादन of वाइन throughout प्राचीन इसराईल is backed up by archeological evidence.
Within the Jewish diaspora communities सब around the ग्लोब, the परंपरागत और धार्मिक उपयोग of कोषेर wine continued to this day.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / bacchus, थी आम in प्राचीन यूनानियों और रोम, और अनेक of आज 's प्रमुख wine-producing regions of पश्चिमी यूरोपीय यहूद स्थापित with Phoenician and, later, Roman plantations.
Winemaking technology improved considerably दौरान the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य : अनेक अंगूर किस्में और cultivation तकनीकों यहूद ज्ञात ; the डिज़ाइन of the वाइन दबायें उन्नत ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine.
Rashi, a medieval French rabbi and पुकारा the `` पिता '' of सब टीका कि followed on the talmud और the tanakh, अर्जित his living as a vintner.
Following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale wine production for export, the Christian गिरिजाघर in मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय भी became a कड़ समर्थक of वाइन, जरुरी लिये जश्न of the कैथोलिक द्रव्यमान. whereas वाइन was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures, its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated.
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the आसवन of वाइन लिये इस्लामी औषधीय और औद्योगिक उद्देश्य ऐसे as perfume.
Wine production gradually increased, साथ खपत burgeoning इससे the 15th century onwards.
Wine production survived the विनाशकारी phylloxera जूं of 1887 और आखिरकार स्प्रेड to numerous regions throughout the world.
जिले of वेस्ट Bengal
The Indian state of West Bengal borders with नेपाल, भूटान, बांग्लादेश और the भारतीय राज्य of बिहार, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Sikkim.
The हिमालय झूठ in the उत्तर of the राज्य और the Bay of Bengal is at the south.
In between उन्हें, the नदी गंगा बहती eastwards और इसके प्रमुख distributary, the Hooghly River, flows south to reach the Bay of Bengal.
The सिलीगुड़ी corridor, जिससे connects north-east इण्डिया साथ बाकी of the India, lies in the North Bengal region of the state.
geographically, वेस्ट बंगाल is विभाजित into a किस्में of regions— दार्जिलिंग हिमालयी हिल प्रदेश, terai और द्वार प्रदेश, उत्तर बंगाल मैदान, rarh प्रदेश, पश्चिमी plateau and high lands, coastal plains, Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta.
In 1947, when India gained independence, the राज्य of वेस्ट बंगाल थी formed साथ 14 जिले, as प्रति विभाजन plan of the then Bengal province of British India.
The former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a ज़िला in 1950, और the पूर्व फ्रेंच एन्क्लेव chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954.
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to जोड of पुरुलिया ज़िला to the राज्य और to enlargement of वेस्ट दिनाजपुर district.
Later, larger जिले ऐसे as वेस्ट दिनाजपुर, 24 परगना and Midnapore were bifurcated.
West Bengal is अभी विभाजित into उन्नीस जिले under three divisions.
जिले हैं administered by ज़िला magistrates, और विभाजन हैं administered by Divisional Commissioners.
कोलकाता, the पूंजी of the राज्य, constitutes the Kolkata district.
Other जिले हैं further विभाजित into प्रशासनिक इकाई ऐसे as subdivisions और ब्लॉक, administered by SDO and BDO, respectively.
The Panchayati Raj has a three-tier ढांचा in the राज्य.
The atomic unit is called a Gram पंचायत, जिससे is the पंचायत संगठन लिये a संग्रहण of villages.
The block-level संगठन हैं पुकारा पंचायत samiti, और the district-level संगठन are named Zilla Parishad.
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a प्रदेश कि consists of the caribbean समुद्र, इसके आइलैंड्स ( कुछ घिरी by the caribbean समुद्र और कुछ bordering दोनो the caribbean समुद्र और the North Atlantic Ocean ), and the surrounding coasts.
The region is southeast of the Gulf of मैक्सिको और the उत्तर अमरीकी मेनलैंड, ईस्ट of सेंट्रल America, and north of South America.
situated largely on the caribbean थाली, the प्रदेश comprises अधिक than 700 islands, islets, reefs, and cays.
( देखिए the सूची. )
These आइलैंड्स generally रूप द्वीप arcs कि delineate the पूर्वी और उत्तरी edges of the Caribbean Sea.
The Caribbean islands, consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south और ईस्ट ( सहित the leeward antilles ), हैं भाग of the somewhat larger वेस्ट इंडीज समूहीकरण, जिससे भी शामिल the lucayan द्वीपसमूह ( comprising the बहामा और turks और caicos आइलैंड्स ) उत्तर of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea.
In a wider sense, the मेनलैंड देशों of बेलीज़ और गुयाना – historically और culturally भाग of the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज – may be included.
Geopolitically, the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of उत्तर अमेरिका और हैं व्यवस्थित into 30 territories सहित sovereign राज्य, overseas departments, and dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to may 31, 1962, वहीँ थी a short-lived देश पुकारा the संघ of the वेस्ट इंडीज रचित of टेन english-speaking Caribbean territories, all of which were then UK dependencies.
The West Indies क्रिकेट टोली continues to represent अनेक of those nations.
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 शहरों in the u.S. राज्य of नई हैम्पशायर.
For each town/city, the table lists the county to which it belongs, इसके तिथि of incorporation, इसके जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके रूप of सरकारी, and its principal villages.
शहरों हैं indicated in boldface.
शहरों और कस्बों हैं treated identically under state law.
Cities are just कस्बों जिनकी रूप of सरकारी थी बदला by a खास अधिनियम of the नई Hampshire legislature.
However, towns फिलहाल हैं समर्थ to बदलें उनके रूप of सरकारी by सरल वोटर स्वीकृति of a नई नगरपालिका चार्टर, साथ अनेक of the more populous towns having already done so.
The main slave routes in मध्यकालीन अफ़्रीकी.
This article discusses प्रणालियों, इतिहास, और प्रभाव of गुलामी within Africa.
See अरब स्लेव व्यापार, अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार, maafa, और गुलामी in समकालीन Africa for other discussions.
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण in अफ़्रीकी ''.
Europeans usually किया नहीं डालें the आंतरिक regions.
गुलामी in अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the महाद्वीप for many centuries, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude और गुलामी यहूद आम in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as वे were in much of the ancient world.
In most African societies where गुलामी थी प्रचलित, the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured बन्दों और नहीं treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave व्यापार और अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार began, अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the परिभाषाएं of गुलामी elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, और दण्ड गुलामी यहूद सब practiced in विभिन्न भाग of अफ़्रीकी.
Although there had been some trans-saharan व्यापार इससे the आंतरिक of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions, गुलामी थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन of अनेक समाजों in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa और the औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी in the जल्दी 1900s.
Brett Lorenzo favre ( born अक्तूबर 10, 1969 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having निभाई क्वार्टरबैक लिये the अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ), ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw लिये over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी मिसिसिपी लिये चार सालो पहले होने चयनित in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to ग्रीन खाड़ी on फ़रवरी 10, 1992, लिये the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft.
favre became the पैकर्स ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the चौथी खेल of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He थी traded to the नई यॉर्क jets और प्रारंभ at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He बना an एनएफएल रिकार्ड 297 लगातार starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the ap सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी तीन लगातार times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और दो सुपर कटोरी दिखावे ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi, सुपर कटोरी xxxii ), जीतना one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown गुजरता, सबसे करियर गुजर गज, सबसे करियर pass completions, सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें, सबसे करियर interceptions thrown, सबसे लगातार starts by a खिलाड़ी, most consecutive starts by a quarterback, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by his उपनाम `` the gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global एंटरप्राइज़ तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered in सैन फ्रांसिस्को, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Though best known for its customer relationship प्रबन्धन ( crm ) उत्पाद, salesforce रै भी विस्तारित into the `` सोशल एंटरप्राइज़ एरिना '' through acquisitions.
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in अमेरिका by फोर्ब्स पत्रिका, as खूब as क्रमांक 27 in सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 100 बेहतरीन कंपनियाँ to Work For in 2012.
As of April 2013, the company is क्रमित छठे in providing सेवाएं in विपणन और ग्राहक सेवा automation.
It is सूचीबद्ध on the नई यॉर्क भण्डार एक्सचेंज और is a constituent of the S & P 500 index.
Seahorse is the title दिए to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री मछली in the genus हिप्पोकैम्पस.
`` हिप्पोकैम्पस '' आता इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
Earth is the तीसरा ग्रह इससे the सूर्य, और the densest और fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System.
It is also the largest of the सौर प्रणाली 's four terrestrial planets.
it is sometimes referred to as the world or the Blue Planet.
Earth formed approximately 4.54 अरब सालो पहले, और जीवन appeared on इसके सतह within its first billion years.
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions, which enabled the proliferation of organisms as खूब as the गठन of the ओज़ोन परत, जिससे साथ साथ धरती 's चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड अवरोधित नुकसानदेह सौर विकिरण, और permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land.
The physical गुण of the धरती, as खूब as इसके geological इतिहास और कक्षा, have allowed life to persist.
estimates on कैसा much longer the ग्रह होगा be समर्थ to continue to support life range from, to as long as.
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid खण्ड, or tectonic प्लेटों, कि migrate आरपार the सतह over periods of many millions of years.
About 71 % of the surface is covered by salt water oceans, with the शेष consisting of महाद्वीपों और आइलैंड्स जिससे साथ have अनेक झीलों और अन्य स्त्रोत of water that contribute to the hydrosphere.
Earth 's poles are ज़्यादातर covered साथ बर्फ कि is the ठोस बर्फ of the अंटार्कटिक बर्फ sheet and the sea ice that is the polar ice packs.
The planet 's interior remains active, with a solid iron inner core, a liquid बाहरी कोर कि generates the चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड, और a मोटा परत of अपेक्षाकृत ठोस mantle.
धरती gravitationally interacts साथ अन्य objects in space, especially the Sun and the Moon.
During one कक्षा around the सूर्य, the धरती घुमाता परिचय इसके अपना अक्ष 366.26 टाइम्स, बनाना 365.26 solar days, or one sidereal year.
The Earth 's axis of रोटेशन is tilted 23.4° दूर इससे the लम्बवत of इसके कक्षीय प्लेन, producing seasonal variations on the planet 's surface with a period of one tropical year ( 365.24 solar days ).
The Moon is धरती 's तभी प्राकृतिक उपग्रह.
It began orbiting the धरती about.
The Moon 's गुरुत्वाकर्षक बातचीत साथ धरती stimulates समंदर tides, stabilizes the axial tilt, and gradually slows the planet 's rotation.
The planet is home to लाखो of प्रजाति of जीवन, सहित humans.
Both the mineral संसाधन of the ग्रह और the उत्पाद of the जीवमंडल योगदान resources that are used to support a global human population.
These निवासियों हैं grouped into परिचय 200 स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य, जिससे interact through diplomacy, travel, trade, and military action.
Human cultures have developed many views of the planet, including its personification as a ग्रहीय देवता, इसके आकार as चपटा, इसके स्थिति as the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड, और in the आधुनिक gaia principle, as a single, self-regulating organism in its own right.
The Magician from the waite-smith टैरो, जो is चित्रित using the same tools that modern Wiccans use.
In the neopagan धर्म of wicca, a दायरा of जादुई टूल्स हैं used in ritual practice.
Each of these tools has different uses and एसोसिएशन, और हैं प्रयुक्त primarily to सीधा magical energies.
They हैं प्रयुक्त at an वेदी, अंदर a magic circle.
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca, the tools are प्रायः विभाजित into निजी टूल्स, जिससे हैं लिये उपयोग by, और स्वामित्व by, an व्यक्तिगत wiccan, और आउटटेक टूल्स, प्रयुक्त collectively by the coven.
इस अभ्यास may derive partly इससे masonic परंपराओं ( ऐसे as the उपयोग of the वर्गाकार और compasses ), इससे which Wicca draws some material, and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
the latter बना much उपयोग of सामग्री इससे मध्यकालीन grimoires ऐसे as the कुंजी of सुलेमान, जिससे रै many illustrations of magical tools and instructions for their preparation.
Typical eukaryotic कोशिका.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of जीवों to बदलें biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones, releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the कुंजी तरीके a कोशिका gains उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन सेल्यूलर activity.
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is माना an exothermic redox reaction.
The overall प्रतिक्रिया is टूटा into अनेक छोटी ones जब it occurs in the देह, most of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly करता नहीं resemble एक when it occurs in a living cell.
This difference is क्युकी it occurs in अनेक पृथक steps.
While the overall प्रतिक्रिया is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by एनिमल और संयंत्र कोशिकाएं in श्वसन शामिल शुगर, अमीनो acids और वसीय acids, और a आम oxidizing एजेंट ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in एटीपी ( इसके तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
A stored-pressure आग extinguisher बना by Amerex
A British आग extinguisher साथ id चिह्न, कॉल पाइंट and fire action sign
A fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or simply an extinguisher, is an क्रियाशील आग सुरक्षा यंत्र प्रयुक्त to बुझा or कंट्रोल छोटी फ़ायर, प्रायः in emergency situations.
it is नहीं intended लिये उपयोग on an out-of-control आग, ऐसे as एक जिससे रै पहुँचे the छत, endangers the उपयोक्ता ( i.e., no escape route, smoke, explosion hazard, etc. ), or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held बेलनाकार दबाव पोत containing an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United States, fire extinguishers, in all buildings other than houses, are generally जरूरी to be सर्विस और inspected by a आग सुरक्षा सेवा कम्पनी at तनिक annually.
Some jurisdictions आवश्यकता अधिक बारंबार सेवा लिये fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the type of service performed ( सालाना निरीक्षण, रिचार्ज, नई आग extinguisher ) and when.
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख प्रकार of आग extinguishers : stored pressure and cartridge-operated.
In stored pressure इकाई, the expellant is भंडारित in the वही कक्ष as the firefighting agent itself.
depending on the एजेंट प्रयुक्त, अलग propellants are used.
With dry chemical extinguishers, नाइट्रोजन is typically प्रयुक्त ; जल और foam extinguishers typically use air.
Stored दबाव आग extinguishers हैं the most common type.
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a पृथक कार्ट्रिज कि is punctured prior to निर्वहन, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
This type is not as common, used primarily in क्षेत्रों ऐसे as औद्योगिक सुविधाएं, जहाँ वे प्राप्त higher-than-average use.
They have the लाभ of सरल और संकेत रिचार्ज, allowing an ऑपरेटर to निर्वहन the extinguisher, recharge it, and return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time.
Unlike stored pressure types, these extinguishers use संपीडित कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड बजाय of नाइट्रोजन, हालांकि नाइट्रोजन कारतूस हैं used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models.
Cartridge operated extinguishers are उपलब्धियाँ in शुष्क रासायनिक और शुष्क चूर्ण प्रकार in the u.S. और in जल, wetting एजेंट, झाग, dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C. ), and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world.
Fire extinguishers हैं further विभाजित into हैंडहेल्ड और cart-mounted, also called wheeled extinguishers.
Handheld extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 गामा ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ), और हैं hence, easily portable by hand.
Cart-mounted units typically तौल 23+ गामा ( 50+ पाउंड ).
These wheeled models are most commonly मिला at निर्माण साइट, विमानक्षेत्र runways, heliports, as खूब as docks and marinas.
Native Americans in the संयुक्त राज्य हैं the स्वदेशी peoples in उत्तर अमेरिका भीतर the सीमाएँ of the present-day महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य, Alaska, and the island state of Hawaii.
They are composed of numerous, distinct Native अमरीकी जनजातियों और जातीय समूह, अनेक of जिससे जीवित as intact political communities.
The terms used to refer to देशी अमेरिकी have महरूम विवादास्पद.
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews, most of the respondents with an expressed preference refer to themselves as अमरीकी इंडियंस ( or बस इंडियंस ), और इस पद रै महरूम अपनाया by प्रमुख अखबारों और कुछ अकादमिक समूह ; however, इस पद करता नहीं typically शामिल देशी hawaiians or निश्चित अलास्कन natives, such as Aleut, Yup'ik, or Inuit peoples.
Since the end of the 15th century, the migration of Europeans to the Americas, and their importation of africans as स्लेव, रै led to सदियां of विरोध और समायोजन between Old and New World societies.
Europeans created most of the जल्दी लिखा ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड परिचय देशी अमेरिकी बाद the colonists ' immigration to the Americas.
Many Native अमेरिकी जिया as hunter-gatherer समाजों और बताई their histories by oral traditions.
In many groups, women carried out sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of स्टेपल फसलों : मक्का, सेम और स्क्वैश.
The indigenous cultures were quite अलग इससे those of the कृषिक, proto-industrial, ज़्यादातर ईसाई आप्रवासियों from western Eurasia.
Many Native संस्कृतियों यहूद matrilineal ; the लोगों occupied lands लिये उपयोग of the संपूर्ण जातियाँ, लिये शिकार or agriculture.
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had विकसित अवधारणाओं of व्यक्तिगत प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों साथ आदर to जमीन कि यहूद अत्यधिक अलग.
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant europeans, as खूब as shifting alliances among अलग राष्ट्र of प्रत्येक संस्कृति through the सदियां, caused extensive राजनैतिक टेंशन, जातीय हिंसा और social disruption.
The देशी अमेरिकी suffered ऊँची fatalities इससे the सम्पर्क साथ संक्रामक यूरेशियाई रोगों, to which they had no acquired immunity.
महामारी बाद यूरोपीय सम्पर्क caused the महानतम घाटा of जीवन for indigenous populations.
Estimates of the pre-columbian जनसांख्यिकी of कया आज constitutes the U.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 million to 18 million.
बाद the colonies revolted विरूद्ध ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और स्थापित the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका, President George Washington and Henry Knox conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as साथ the choctaw, or मजबूर ) became a सतत नीति through अमरीकी administrations.
During the 19th century, the ideology of manifest destiny became अभिन्न to the अमरीकी राष्ट्रवादी गति.
Expansion of European-American populations to the वेस्ट बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति resulted in increasing दबाव on देशी अमरीकी lands, warfare between the groups, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act, authorizing the सरकारी to relocate देशी अमेरिकी इससे उनके homelands भीतर स्थापित राज्य to lands वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी River, accommodating European-American expansion.
The पहला यूरोपीय अमेरिकी to एनकाउंटर the पश्चिमी interior tribes were generally fur traders and trappers.
There were भी जेसुइट प्रचारकों क्रियाशील in the Northern Tier.
As United States विस्तार पहुँचे into the अमरीकी वेस्ट, settler और खनिक प्रवासियों आए into increasing विरोध साथ the ग्रेट Basin, Great Plains, and other Western tribes.
These were complex nomadic संस्कृतियों आधारित on घोड़ा संस्कृति और मौसमी बाइसन शिकार.
They carried out strong resistance to United States incursions in the decades after the American Civil War, in a series of भारतीय युद्धों, जिससे यहूद बारंबार up जबतक the 1890s, लकिन जारी into the 20th सदी.
The transcontinental रेलरोड brought अधिक non-natives into tribal land in the west.
Over time, the U.S. forced a series of treaties and land cessions by the tribes, और स्थापित रिज़र्वेशन लिये उन्हें in अनेक पश्चिमी राज्य.
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits, but european-american agricultural प्रौद्योगिकी of the समय थी अपर्याप्त लिये प्रायः शुष्क रिज़र्वेशन lands.
In 1924, देशी अमेरिकी जो यहूद नहीं already u.S. citizens were granted citizenship by Congress.
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique संबंध साथ the संयुक्त राज्य क्युकी वे may be सदस्यों of राष्ट्र, जनजातियों, or bands with sovereignty and treaty rights.
Central अमेरिका ( ) is the सेंट्रल भौगोलिक प्रदेश of the Americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North American continent, which connects with South America on the southeast.
When माना भाग of the एकीकृत महाद्वीपीय मॉडल, it is considered a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven देशों : बेलीज़, कोस्टा रिका, el साल्वाडोर, ग्वाटेमाला, होंडुरास, निकारागुआ, and Panama.
Central America is part of the mesoamerican biodiversity हॉटस्पॉट, जिससे extends इससे उत्तरी Guatemala through central Panama.
It is bordered by Mexico to the उत्तर, the caribbean समुद्र to the ईस्ट, the उत्तर प्रशांत समंदर to the west, and Colombia to the south-east.
Central America is an क्षेत्रफल of, or लगभग 0.1 % of the धरती 's surface.
As of 2009, इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी estimated at 41,739,000.
It has a density of 77 लोगों प्रति वर्गाकार kilometer.
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by विधेयक लॉरेंस कि aired इससे अक्तूबर 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on NBC and later ABC.
the श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of कर्मचारी at the fictional Sacred Heart teaching hospital.
The title is a play on सर्जिकल scrubs और a पद लिये a low-ranking व्यक्ति क्युकी at the शुरूआत of the series, most of the main characters were medical interns.
The series features fast-paced पटकथा, slapstick, और surreal vignettes प्रस्तुत ज़्यादातर as the daydreams of the central character, Dr. John `` J.D. ''
Dorian, who is निभाई by zach braff.
Actors starring alongside braff in the पहला आठ सीज़न शामिल सारा chalke, डोनाल्ड faison, Neil Flynn, Ken Jenkins, John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes.
The series has also featured अनेक अतिथि दिखावे by फिल्मी अभिनेताओं, ऐसे as ब्रेंडन फ्रेज़र, Heather Graham, and Colin Farrell.
In the नवीं ऋतु, अनेक नई डाल सदस्यों यहूद introduced और the दिखाएँ setting moved from a hospital to a medical school.
Out of the original cast, only Braff, faison और mcginley became नियमित डाल सदस्यों, जबकि the अन्य साथ the एक्सेप्शन of रेयेस, बना guest appearances.
Braff appeared in छह एपीसोड of the नवीं season before departing.
Kerry Bishé, Eliza कूप, डेव फ्रेंको और माइकल mosley became श्रेणी regulars साथ Bishé becoming the show 's new narrator.
Scrubs premiered on अक्तूबर 2, 2001 on NBC.
The series प्राप्त a पीबॉडी पुरस्कार in 2006.
During the सातवाँ ऋतु, एनबीसी घोषित कि it होता not renew the show.
Shortly after the seventh season finale, ABC announced it था उठाई up the आठवीं ऋतु of the श्रेणी, जिससे began January 6, 2009.
The ninth ऋतु premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
On May 14, 2010, ABC घोषित it था officially रद्द scrubs.
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam झोंके इंजन, प्रयुक्त in netherton at the ironworks of m w grazebrook.
re-erected on the a38 ( m ) in Birmingham, UK
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical कार्य using भाप as इसके working द्रव.
Using boiling water to उपज mechanical गति goes वापस परिचय 2,000 years, but early devices were not practical.
चूंकि the लेट 1700s भाप इंजन have become a प्रमुख सोर्स of mechanical power.
The first applications यहूद निकालना जल इससे खानों.
In 1781 James Watt patented a भाप इंजन कि उत्पादित निरन्तर rotative motion.
These 10 hp इंजन सक्रिय a चौड़ी दायरा of निर्माण मशीनरी to be powered.
The engines could be sited anywhere कि जल और कोयले or लकडी ईंधन could be प्राप्त.
By 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp था become feasible.
Steam engines could also be applied to वाहनों ऐसे as कर्षण इंजन और the रेल इंजनों जिससे हैं commonly बस पुकारा भाप इंजन outside America.
The stationary steam engine थी a कुंजी घटक of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति, allowing कारखानों to locate where water power was unavailable.
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the इलेक्ट्रिक शक्ति in the संयुक्त राज्य using a किस्में of ऊष्मा स्त्रोत.
Steam engines are external combustion engines, जहाँ the working द्रव is पृथक इससे the दहन उत्पाद.
Non-combustion heat स्त्रोत ऐसे as सौर शक्ति, नाभिकीय शक्ति or geothermal उर्जा may be used.
The ideal thermodynamic cycle used to analyze इस प्रक्रम is पुकारा the rankine साईकिल.
In the cycle, जल is heated into भाप in a बॉयलर जबतक it पहुँच a high pressure.
When विस्तारित through पिस्टन्स or turbines, mechanical work is done.
the reduced-pressure भाप is तब सघन और pumped back into the boiler.
In general उपयोग, the पद भाप इंजन can refer to either the एकीकृत भाप पौधे ( सहित बायलरों इत्यादि. ) ऐसे as रेल steam locomotives and portable engines, or may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alone, as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine.
Specialized devices such as steam hammers और भाप pile ड्राइवर हैं निर्भर on भाप supplied इससे a पृथक बॉयलर.
A मिल इंजन इससे stott पार्क Bobbin Mill, Cumbria, England
A steam locomotive in जर्मनी.this क्लास of इंजन थी निर्मित in 1942 – 1950 और संचालित commercially until 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited संस्करण titled `` मूव b***h '' or बस `` मूव '' ) is the तीसरा आधिकारिक सिंगल इससे rapper Ludacris ' album Word of Mouf.
The सिंगल सुविधाएँ mystikal and I-20.
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Ludacris 's first top ten hit on the chart, it भी पहुँचे # 3 on hot रैप ट्रैक्स और # 3 on hot r & b/hip-hop Singles & Tracks.
Puerto rican reggaeton duo maicol & मैनुएल sampled the सोंग on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo.
The song is also प्रदर्शित in एपीसोड 2, श्रेणी एक of अंग्रेजों टीन comedy/drama Skins.
The song was also used by World Wrestling entertainment superstar montel vontavious पोर्टर दौरान उसके छोटी कार्यावधि in रिंग of सम्मान.
It was also used for April शिकारी in विभिन्न स्वतंत्र circuits.
It was प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म atl अभिनीत t.i., और ' hancock, ' हालांकि in the latter, the clean version was used.
A snippet of the सोंग is निभाई दौरान ट्रैफ़िक रिपोर्ट्स on अनेक रेडियो स्टेशन, प्रायः carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
Retired NBA star and now ईएसपीएन विश्लेषक jalen रोज़ is प्रदर्शित in the म्यूज़िक video.
The song has been covered by rock बैंड प्रारंभ ट्रबल, on उनके एल्बम प्रत्येक समाधान रै Its Problem.
It was featured on अंग्रेजों sitcom the inbetweeners जब the वर्ण jay और neil took होगा on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra.
It was sampled by लड़की बात on the पहला track of उसके एल्बम All Day, `` Oh No ''.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 अप्रैल 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य, ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms, और उनके territories और dependencies, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England और, in कुछ of उसके realms, carries the शीर्षक of defender of the आस्था as भाग of उसके पूरा शीर्षक.
on उसके accession on 6 फ़रवरी 1952, एलिज़ाबेथ became सिर of the राष्ट्रमंडल और महारानी regnant of सात independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the क्रमांक of उसके realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता और कुछ realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua नई गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट और the grenadines, बेलीज़, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा और संत किट्स and Nevis.
Her reign of years is फिलहाल the दूसरी longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी महारानी Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in London और शिक्षित privately at home.
Her father acceded to the सिंहासन as जार्ज vi in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai एडवर्ड viii, from which time she was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World युद्ध, in जिससे वो परोसा in the auxiliary territorial सेवा.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom वो रै चार children : चार्ल्स, ऐनी, एंड्रयू, और एडवर्ड.
Her coronation सेवा took प्लेस in 1953 और थी the पहला to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड और reciprocal विज़िट to और इससे the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms, ऐसे as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम और the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of उसके grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the प्रिंस of वेल्स, और the जश्न of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as उसके चांदी, सुनहरी, और डायमंड jubilees in 1977, 2002, और 2012, respectively.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the परेशानियों in उत्तरी आयरलैंड, the falklands युद्ध, युद्धों साथ इराकी और the युद्ध in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of उसके पूर्व daughter-in-law, डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और the मौतों of उसके mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments, लकिन support लिये the साम्राज्य और उसके निजी लोकप्रियता remain high.
Christianity is the largest धर्म सूचीबद्ध by australians in the national census.
In the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, 61.1 % of australians यहूद सूचीबद्ध as Christian.
Australia has no official state धर्म और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई संविधान protects स्वतंत्रता of religion.
The presence of Christianity in Australia began साथ the आगमन of the पहला बेड़े of अंग्रेजों convicts in 1788.
the धर्म grew to खाता लिये 96.1 % of the national population at the time of the Federation of Australia in 1901.
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of England in Australia ) remained the largest denomination जबतक 1986, जब it थी surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia.
Post-war बहुसंस्कृतिवाद और a मनाही in धार्मिक observance among कुछ भाग of the population have diversified the demographics of religion in Australia.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011, the largest denominations were either Roman Catholic ( 25 % ) or Anglican ( 17 % ), साथ the तीसरा largest denomination होने the 5 % संबद्ध साथ the uniting Church in Australia.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches like the यूनानी परंपरागत archdiocese of ऑस्ट्रेलिया और वहीँ हैं विशाल और growing पेंटेकोस्टल समूह, ऐसे as सिडनी 's hillsong गिरिजाघर.
The festivals of ईस्टर और क्रिसमस हैं पब्लिक छुट्टियाँ in Australia.
Around a quarter of students attend गिरिजाघर स्कूलों और ईसाई संगठनों हैं अग्रणी non-government प्रदाताओं of स्वास्थ्य और welfare सेवाएं through संगठनों जैसे कैथोलिक स्वास्थ्य ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Anglicare, UnitingCare Australia, the Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society.
Historically significant Australian Christians have included Rev Dr जॉन dunmore लैंग, संत मरियम mackillop, कैथरीन हेलेन spence, पादरी दाउद unaipon, the रेवरेंड John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello Baptist minister and current सीईओ of संसार दृष्टि ऑस्ट्रेलिया, फ़्रैंक ब्रेनन, जेसुइट इंसान अधिकारों वकील, कार्डिनल जार्ज pell, कैथोलिक archbishop of सिडनी, फिलिप aspinall the वर्तमान anglican primate और archbishop of ब्रिसबेन, केविन रड, पूर्व मजदूर प्रधान मंत्री, और टोनी एबॉट, नेता for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party.
Charter creating Collegiate स्कूल, जिससे became yale कॉलेज, अक्तूबर 9, 1701
Yale विश्वविद्यालयों is a निजी आइवी लीग शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in New Haven, Connecticut.
Founded in 1701 in the उपनिवेश of कनेक्टिकट, the विश्वविद्यालयों is the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States.
Originally चार्टर्ड as the `` कॉलेजिएट स्कूल '', the संस्था traces इसके जड़ें to 17th-century clergymen who sought to establish a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony.
In 1718, the College was renamed `` Yale कॉलेज '' to सम्मान a तोहफा इससे elihu yale, a राज्यपाल of the अंग्रेजों East India Company.
In 1861, the Graduate School of Arts and sciences became the पहला u.S. संस्था to पुरस्कार the phd. yale became a founding सदस्य of the संघ of American Universities in 1900.
Yale College was transformed, beginning in the 1930s, through the स्थापना of आवासीय कॉलेजों : 12 अभी मौजूद और दो अधिक हैं नियोजित.
yale employs over 1,100 संकाय to सिखा और सलाह परिचय 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate and professional students.
Almost all tenured professors teach undergraduate पाठ्यक्रम, अधिक than 2,000 of जिससे हैं offered annually.
The University 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 अरब, the second-largest of कोई अकादमिक संस्था in the world.
Yale 's system of more than दो दर्जन पुस्तकालयों holds 12.5 लाख आयतन.
49 Nobel Laureates have been संबद्ध साथ the विश्वविद्यालयों as विद्यार्थी, संकाय, और staff.
Yale has produced many notable alumni, including five U.S. Presidents, 19 u.S. परम् अदालत justices, और अनेक foreign heads of state.
At the graduate स्तर, yale विधि स्कूल, yale स्कूल of आर्ट, और yale स्कूल of नाटक are consistently ranked the top programs in their field.
yale विधि स्कूल is the सबसे चयनात्मक law school in the United States.
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the yale bulldogs in the ncaa प्रभाग I Ivy League.
The oldest intercollegiate athletic event in the संयुक्त राज्य is the yale-harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an खुशबूदार झाड़ी इससे the परिवार asteraceae, जिससे grows in arid और semi-arid शर्तें, throughout a दायरा of ठंडा मरुस्थल, स्तान, और पहाड़ habitats in the Intermountain West of North America.
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several related members of the genus artemisia, ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया sagebrush ( artemisia californica ).
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia species are the प्रबल पौधे आरपार विशाल portions of the ग्रेट जलाशय, covering कुछ 422,000 वर्गाकार मील in 11 पश्चिमी u.S. & कनाडाई राज्य.
It is the राज्य पुष्प of Nevada.
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a variety of species, ऐसे as ऋषि grouse, pronghorn antelope, धूसर vireo, सानो खरगोश, and mule deer.
Big sagebrush थी प्रयुक्त as an हर्बल आयुर्विज्ञान by देशी अमेरिकी throughout the intermountain वेस्ट of उत्तर america—especially लिये preventing संक्रमण in wounds, stopping आतंरिक bleeding, and treating headaches and colds.
Chemically, the active medicinal constituents शामिल camphor, terpenoids, और tannins.
Several major threats exist to ऋषि ब्रश ecosystems, सहित इंसान settlements, परिवर्तन to agricultural जमीन, livestock grazing, invasive plant species, wildfires, and climate change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email service offered by the अमरीकी ढूंढें इंजन कम्पनी Yahoo !
It was शुभारम्भ in 1997, और, according to comscore, याहू ! मेल is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012.
फिलहाल, याहू ! offers तीन संस्करण of Yahoo ! Mail.
The परंपरागत `` याहू ! मेल क्लासिक '' continues the उपलब्धता of the असली इंटरफ़ेस introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax interface, drag-and-drop features, improved ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता, कुंजीपटल शॉर्टकट, पता auto-complete, टैब्स, और अन्य अद्यतनीकृत सुविधाएँ.
In October 2010, Yahoo ! released a beta संस्करण of याहू ! मेल, जिससे शामिल सुधार to the डिज़ाइन, प्रदर्शन, ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता, and Facebook integration.
In May 2011, beta परीक्षण लिये the नई संस्करण रोका, और it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail.
In early 2008, Yahoo ! began offering unlimited mail storage to its users in response to heated प्रतियोगिता in the फ़्री web-mail मार्केट खण्ड.
On June 27, 2009, याहू ! मेसेंजर थी एकीकृत with Yahoo ! Mail.
Tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized urban port नगर और the काउंटी सीट of पियर्स County, Washington, United States.
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound, southwest of Seattle, पूर्वोत्तर of the राज्य पूंजी, ओलंपिया, और उत्तरपश्चिम of Mount Rainier National Park.
The population was 198,397, according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
टकोमा is the second-largest नगर in the puget ध्वनि क्षेत्रफल और the तीसरा largest in the state.
Tacoma also serves as the center of business activity for the दक्षिण ध्वनि प्रदेश, जिससे रै a जनसांख्यिकी of around 1 million people.
Tacoma अपनाया इसके नाम बाद the आसपास माउंट Rainier, originally called Mount Tahoma.
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the पश्चिमी टर्मिनस of the उत्तरी प्रशांत रेलरोड in the लेट 19th सदी.
The decision of the railroad थी बहकावे by टकोमा 's neighboring deep-water हार्बर, शुरुआत Bay.
By connecting the bay with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` जब rails मिलें sails. ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of Tacoma, a center of international व्यापार on the प्रशांत coast और वॉशिंगटन राज्य 's largest बंदरगाहों.
Like most central cities, Tacoma suffered a prolonged मनाही in the mid-20th सदी as a परिणाम of suburbanization and divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the शहर कोर शामिल the विश्वविद्यालयों of वॉशिंगटन टकोमा ; टकोमा कड़ी, the पहला आधुनिक इलेक्ट्रिक लाइट रेल सेवा in the राज्य ; the राज्य 's highest density of art and history museums ; and a restored urban waterfront, the Thea Foss Waterway.
With a long history of blue-collar मजदूर राजनीती — इससे the रेलरोड मजदूर of the 19th सदी, to the longshoremen of the 20th सदी, to the मजदूर तैयार मजदूर of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough, gritty image.
A song about टकोमा, `` thrice सब अमरीकी '', by अमरीकी singer-songwriter और पूर्व निवासी neko मामला, describes it as `` a dusty बूढ़ा गहना in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down ''.
Tacoma-Pierce County has been named एक of the सबसे livable क्षेत्रों in the country.
Tacoma was also recently सूचीबद्ध as the 19th सबसे walkable city in the country.
In contrast, the नगर is भी क्रमित as the सबसे stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 survey.
In 2006, women 's पत्रिका स्वः नामित टकोमा the `` Most Sexually Healthy City '' in the United States.
In 2012, The Advocate gave टकोमा the शीर्षक of `` gayest नगर in अमेरिका '', in भाग क्युकी of the विशाल विविधता of पब्लिक कार्यालयों आयोजित, और वॉशिंगटन State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry.
Tacoma is प्रसिद्ध लिये the 1940 पतन of the टकोमा narrows Bridge.
chula विस्टा ( ; ) is the दूसरी largest नगर in the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल, the सातवाँ largest नगर in दक्षिणी California, the fourteenth largest city in the State of California, and the 77th-largest city in the United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 243,916 as of the 2010 census.
Located just from downtown San Diego and from the मैक्सिकन किनारा in the दक्षिण खाड़ी प्रदेश of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल, the नगर is at the बीच of एक of the richest आर्थिक और culturally diverse zones in the United States.
Chula विस्टा is so नामित क्युकी of इसके दर्शनीय स्थान between the सैन डिएगो खाड़ी और coastal mountain foothills.
Founded in the early 19th century, तेज़ जनसांख्यिकी विकास रै recently महरूम observed in the city.
As the second largest city in San Diego County, chula विस्टा रै जल्दी become a गंतव्य लोकप्रिय to अनेक पर्यटकों.
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round संयुक्त राज्य ओलम्पिक प्रशिक्षण centers और लोकप्रिय पर्यटक गंतव्यों शामिल क्रिकेट बेतार amphitheater, the Chula Vista marina, and the Chula Vista Nature Center.
Metes and bounds is a system or method of describing जमीन, रियल प्रॉपर्टी ( in कंट्रास्ट to निजी प्रॉपर्टी ) or real estate.
The system has been प्रयुक्त in इंग्लैण्ड लिये अनेक सदियां, और is स्टिल प्रयुक्त वहीँ in the परिभाषा of general boundaries.
By custom, it was applied in the असली तेरह colonies कि became the संयुक्त राज्य, और in अनेक अन्य जमीन jurisdictions based on English common law.
Typically the system उपयोग शारीरिक सुविधाएँ of the लोकल भूगोल, साथ साथ दिशानिर्देश और दूरियाँ, to define and describe the boundaries of a parcel of land.
The boundaries are described in a running prose style, working around the पार्सल in अनुक्रम, इससे a पाइंट of शुरूआत, returning वापस to the वही पाइंट ; compare साथ the मौखिक अनुष्ठान of धड़कन the bounds.
it may शामिल सन्दर्भ to अन्य adjoining parcels ( और उनके स्वामी ), और it, in फेरे, could also be referred to in later surveys.
At the time the description is compiled, it may have been marked on the ground with स्थाई स्मारक लगाई जहाँ वहीँ यहूद no उपयुक्त प्राकृतिक स्मारक.
the पद `` metes '' refers to a boundary पारिभाषित by the मापन of प्रत्येक सीधा चलाएं, निर्दिष्ट by a distance between the terminal points, and an orientation or direction.
A direction may be a सरल कम्पास bearing, or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods.
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary description, such as along a निश्चित watercourse, a स्टोन वॉल, an adjoining पब्लिक सड़क रास्ता, or an मौजूदा building.
The system is often used to define larger pieces of प्रॉपर्टी ( e.g. खेतो ), और राजनैतिक subdivisions ( e.g. कस्बा सीमाएँ ) जहाँ precise परिभाषा is नहीं जरूरी or होता be far too expensive, or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description.
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 कूच 1727 ) थी an अंग्रेज़ी physicist और गणितज्ञ जो is widely regarded as एक of the सबसे influential scientists of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution.
His book philosophiæ naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` गणितीय सिद्धान्त of प्राकृतिक दर्शनशास्त्र '' ), first published in 1687, laid the foundations for most of classical mechanics.
न्यूटन भी बना seminal योगदान to प्रकाशिकी और साझा क्रेडिट साथ गॉटफ्राइड Leibniz for the invention of the infinitesimal calculus.
Newton 's Principia प्रतिपादित the कानून of गति और सार्वभौमिक gravitation कि वर्चस्व वैज्ञानिकों ' दृश्य of the physical universe for the next three centuries.
It also demonstrated that the गति of वस्तुएँ on the धरती और कि of celestial bodies could be described by the same principles.
By deriving कॅप्लर 's कानून of ग्रहीय गति इससे उसके गणितीय वर्णन of गम्भीरता, न्यूटन removed the पिछला संदेह about the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
Newton built the first practical reflecting दूरदर्शी और विकसित a सिद्धान्त of रंग आधारित on the अवलोकन कि a प्रिज़्म decomposes श्वेत लाइट into the many colours of the visible spectrum.
He also प्रतिपादित an अनुभवजन्य विधि of कूलिंग और पढ़ाई the speed of sound.
In addition to his work on the कलन, as a गणितज्ञ न्यूटन contributed to the पढ़ाई of शक्ति श्रेणी, generalised the द्विपद प्रमेय to non-integer exponents, and developed Newton 's method for approximating the roots of a function.
Newton was a fellow of Trinity College and the second lucasian प्राध्यापक of गणित at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैम्ब्रिज.
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian and, unusually for a member of the कैम्ब्रिज संकाय, he refused to लो पावन आदेश in the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, शायद क्युकी he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences, Newton also dedicated much of his time to the पढ़ाई of alchemy और biblical कालक्रम, लकिन सबसे of उसके कार्य in those areas remained unpublished until long after his death.
In his बाद जीवन, न्यूटन became अध्यक्ष of the Royal Society.
He also served the British सरकारी as वार्डन और निपुण of the Royal Mint.
Prof. Walter Lewin explains न्यूटन 's विधि of gravitation in एमआईटी course 8.01
Satellites and projectiles सब obey न्यूटन 's विधि of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the universe attracts प्रत्येक अन्य पाइंट द्रव्यमान साथ a फ़ोर्स कि is सीधे आंशिक to the उत्पाद of उनके masses और inversely आंशिक to the square of the distance between them.
( Separately it was shown that large spherically सममित masses आकर्षित और हैं आकर्षित as if सब उनके द्रव्यमान were concentrated at their centers. )
This is a general physical law derived इससे अनुभवजन्य observations by कया न्यूटन called induction.
It is a part of classical mechanics and was formulated in Newton 's work Philosophiæ naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` the प्रिन्सिपिया '' ), पहला प्रकाशित on 5 जुलाई 1687.
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society, रॉबर्ट hooke बना a अर्जी कि न्यूटन था प्राप्त the विलोम वर्गाकार विधि इससे उसे – देखिए इतिहास section below. )
In आधुनिक भाषा, the विधि राज्य the following:
Assuming SI units, F is measured in newtons ( n ), m1 और m2 in गामा ( kg ), r in मीटर ( m ), और the निरंतर g is लगभग equal to.
The मान of the निरंतर g थी पहला accurately संकल्पित इससे the परिणाम of the कैवेंडिश प्रयोग conducted by the British scientist Henry Cavendish in 1798, although Cavendish did not himself calculate a numerical value for G.
This experiment थी भी the पहला परीक्षण of न्यूटन 's सिद्धान्त of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
It took place 111 years after the publication of न्यूटन 's प्रिन्सिपिया और 71 सालो बाद न्यूटन 's मौत, so none of न्यूटन 's calculations could उपयोग the मान of g ; बजाय he could only calculate a force relative to another force.
Newton 's विधि of gravitation resembles कूलम्ब 's विधि of विद्युत शक्तियां, जिससे is प्रयुक्त to गणना the परिमाण of electrical force between two charged bodies.
Both are inverse-square कानून, in जिससे फ़ोर्स is inversely आंशिक to the square of the distance between the bodies.
Coulomb 's Law has the उत्पाद of दो आरोप in प्लेस of the उत्पाद of the masses, और the electrostatic constant in place of the gravitational constant.
Newton 's law has since been superseded by आइंस्टीन 's सिद्धान्त of सामान्य आपेक्षिकता, लकिन it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity.
Relativity is required only when there is a need for extreme परिशुद्धता, or जब dealing साथ gravitation लिये अत्यधिक विशाल और dense objects.
White and red flags, representing इराकी और अमरीकी मौतों, बैठना in the ग्रास चतुष्कोण of the घाटी पुस्तकालयों on the Corvallis, Oregon, campus of Oregon State University.
As part of the traveling इराकी देह गिनती प्रदर्शनी इससे 2008 to 2009 ( नहीं सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह गिनती प्रोजेक्ट ), the ध्वज उद्देश्य to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War. ''
( may 2008 )
Casualties of the विरोध in इराकी चूंकि 2003 ( शुरूआत साथ the 2003 आक्रमण of इराकी, और continuing साथ the ensuing occupation of इराकी, as खूब as the क्रियाएँ of the विभिन्न हथियारबंद समूह ऑपरेटिंग in the देश ) have आइये in अनेक forms, and the accuracy of the information available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly.
The table नीचे summarizes विभिन्न estimates of the इराकी casualty figures.
लिये सैनिकों in the u.s.-led बहुराष्ट्रीय गठबन्धन, the मौत टोल is carefully tracked और अद्यतनीकृत रोज़, और the names और छायाचित्र of those killed in action as well as in accidents have been published widely.
A total of 4,486 U.S. सैनिको यहूद मारे in इराकी between 2003 and 2012.
Regarding the Iraqis, however, सूचना on दोनो सैन्य और civilian हताहत is दोनो कम precise और कम सतत.
Estimates of casualty levels are उपलब्धियाँ इससे पत्रकारों on the झाँकी, इससे officials of शामिल संगठन, और इससे समूह कि summarize सूचना on incidents reported in the न्यूज मीडिया.
The word `` हताहत `` in इसके सबसे सामान्य भाव शामिल the injured as well as the dead.
Accounts of the क्रमांक of गठबन्धन wounded vary widely, partly क्युकी it is नहीं स्पष्ट कया चाहिए be गिने : should only those injuries serious enough to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do बीमारियों or चोटों caused by दुर्घटनाओं गिनती, or चाहिए the फ़ोकस be प्रतिबंधित to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using अलग परिभाषाएं may arrive at बहुत अलग संख्याएँ, और sometimes the precise definition is not clearly specified.
Asalto al coche ( Robbery of the कोच ), by फ्रांसिस्को de Goya
A highwayman थी a चोर और brigand who preyed on travellers.
This type of outlaw usually travelled और robbed by घोड़ा, as compared to a footpad जो travelled and robbed on foot.
Mounted robbers were widely considered to be socially श्रेष्ठ to footpads.
Such लुटेरों संचालित in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड इससे the elizabethan era until the early 19th century.
The word highwayman is first known to be प्रयुक्त in the साल 1617 ; अन्य euphemisms शामिल `` शूरवीरों of the सड़क '' और `` gentlemen of the road. ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century North American highwaymen यहूद सड़क एजेंटों in कुछ उदाहरण लिये पहाड़ डाकुओं जबकि in अन्य मामले the पद is rlallaala लिये mountain-based ruffians.
In the same time काल in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, वे यहूद ज्ञात as bushrangers.
Earvin `` Magic '' जॉनसन, jr. ( born अगस्त 14, 1959 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी पेशेवर basketball player who played point guard for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ).
बाद जीतना championships in ऊँची स्कूल and college, Johnson was selected first overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers.
He won a championship and an NBA फाइनल सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार in उसके रुकी ऋतु, और जीती चार अधिक championships साथ the लेकर्स during the 1980s.
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 बाद announcing कि he था contracted hiv, लकिन लौटे to play in the 1992 All-Star Game, winning the All-Star MVP Award.
After protests from his fellow players, he retired again लिये चार सालो, लकिन लौटे in 1996, at आयु 36, to खेल 32 खेल लिये the लेकर्स before retiring for the third and final time.
Johnson 's करियर उपलब्धियाँ शामिल तीन एनबीए mvp पुरस्कार, नौ एनबीए फाइनल दिखावे, बारह all-star games, and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations.
He led the league in regular-season assists चार टाइम्स, और is the एनबीए 's all-time नेता in औसत assists per game, at 11.2.
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream टोली ``, the u.S. बास्केट टोली कि जीती the ओलम्पिक सुनहरा पदक in 1992.
बाद leaving the एनबीए in 1992, जॉनसन formed the जादू जॉनसन all-stars, a barnstorming टोली that travelled around the world playing exhibition games.
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 Greatest खिलाड़ी in एनबीए इतिहास in 1996, और enshrined in the बास्केट Hall of Fame in 2002.
He was rated the महानतम एनबीए पाइंट गार्ड of सब time by ESPN in 2007.
His दोस्ती और फंसने साथ बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स स्टार लैरी बर्ड, जिसको he faced in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship series, were well documented.
Since his retirement, Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/ AIDS रोकथाम और सुरक्षित sex, as खूब as an उद्योगों, लोकसेवक, प्रसारणकर्ता और प्रेरक स्पीकर.
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for अनेक सालो, और थी भाग of a समूह कि खरीदा the लॉस एंजिल्स Dodgers in 2012.
Allium cells in अलग phases of the cell cycle
the कोशिकाएं of eukaryotes ( बाएँ ) and prokaryotes ( right )
The cell is the basic structural, कार्यात्मक और biological ईकाई of सब ज्ञात जीना जीवों.
It is the smallest unit of life कि is वर्गीकृत as a जीना बात ( मगर वायरस, जिससे consists तभी इससे dna/rna covered by प्रोटीन and lipids ), and is often called the building block of life.
It consists of a जीवद्रव्य enclosed भीतर a झिल्ली, जिससे contains अनेक biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids.
जीवों can be वर्गीकृत as एककोशिकीय ( consisting of a सिंगल कोशिका ; सहित सबसे जीवाणु ) or multicellular ( including plants and animals ).
While the number of cells in plants और पशु varies इससे प्रजाति to प्रजाति, इंसानो contain परिचय 100 खरब ( 1014 ) cells.
Most plant and animal कोशिकाएं हैं between 1 और 100 micrometres और इसलिए हैं दृश्य तभी अंतर्गत the microscope.
The cell was खोजा by रॉबर्ट hooke in 1665.
The cell theory, first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob schleiden और theodor schwann, राज्य कि सब जीवों हैं रचित of एक or अधिक कोशिकाएं, कि सब कोशिकाएं आइये इससे preexisting कोशिकाएं, कि vital कृत्यों of an सजीव occur भीतर कोशिकाएं, और कि सब कोशिकाएं contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells.
Cells emerged on planet Earth at तनिक 4.0–4.3 अरब सालो पहले.
The word cell आता इससे the लैटिन गर्भगृह, अर्थ `` small room ''.
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological structure was coined by रॉबर्ट hooke in a किताब he प्रकाशित in 1665 जब he compared the कॉर्क कोशिकाएं he देखी through उसके सूक्ष्मदर्शी to the small rooms monks lived in.
grecian सूत्र is a मेन 's बाल coloring उत्पाद in the United States.
कनाडा और यूरोपीय previously बैन the product because of its use of lead acetate.
A motor scooter 's front with an अव्यवहारिक क्रमांक और किस्में of headlamps, added लिये सजावटी purposes
A headlamp is a बल्ब संलग्न to the सामने of a गाडी to light the road ahead.
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age, spurred by the ग्रेट disparity between दिन और nighttime ट्रैफ़िक fatalities : the u.S. नेशनल राजमार्ग ट्रैफ़िक सुरक्षा प्रशासन राज्य कि nearly हाफ of सब traffic-related fatalities occur in the अंधेरा, despite only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness.
While it is आम लिये the पद हेडलाइट to be प्रयुक्त interchangeably in अनौपचारिक चर्चा, headlamp is the पद लिये the यंत्र itself, while headlight properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device.
अन्य वाहनों, ऐसे as रेल और वायुयान, हैं जरूरी to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त on साइकिल, और हैं जरूरी in कुछ jurisdictions.
They can be powered by a बैटरी or a छोटी विद्युत सृजनकर्ता on the wheel.
Additionally ऑटोमोटिव रात्रि दृष्टि प्रणालियों work to supplement headlamps.
Women 's rights are the अधिकारों और entitlements claimed लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों of अनेक समाजों worldwide.
In some स्थान ये अधिकारों हैं institutionalized or समर्थित by विधि, लोकल कस्टम, और आचरण, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human अधिकारों through दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the कसरत of अधिकारों by महिलाओं and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's अधिकारों शामिल, हालांकि हैं नहीं सीमित to, the सही : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the सैन्य or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
Caryn Elaine जॉनसन, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as whoopi गोल्डबर्ग (, ( born नवम्बर 13, 1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in the रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated ब्लैक स्त्री in the Deep South.
She received a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री और जीती उसके पहला सुनहरी Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, वो निभाई oda mae भूरा, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) सहेजें उसके प्रेमी ( demi मूर ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best supporting अभिनेत्री ; इस बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास of the अकादमी पुरस्कार to जीत an एक्टिंग oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, the खिलाड़ी, बना in अमेरिका, कैसा स्टेला मिला उसके नाली वापस, लड़की, बाधित और Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the बारटेंडर guinan in स्टार ट्रेक : the अगला पीढी, as टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' Jack Flash, and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been मनोनीत लिये 13 एमी पुरस्कार लिये उसके कार्य in टेलीविज़न.
She was co-producer of the लोकप्रिय खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड वर्गों इससे 1998 to 2004.
She has been the मॉडरेटर of the दिन बात दिखाएँ the View since 2007.
गोल्डबर्ग रै a ग्रैमी, दो दिन emmys, दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a Tony ( for production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, चार लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार, और रै महरूम सम्मानित साथ a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of Fame.
She is one of the few entertainers जो have जीती an एमी, ग्रैमी, ऑस्कर, और टोनी पुरस्कार.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New यॉर्क नगर, the एनएचएल is widely माना to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग in the संसार, और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर sports leagues in the United States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest पेशेवर खेल ट्रॉफी in उत्तर अमेरिका, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on नवम्बर 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, क्यूबेक, कनाडा, बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन, the नेशनल हॉकी संघ ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
it प्रारंभ साथ चार टीमों और, through a श्रेणी of expansions, contractions, और relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada, although the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 जब it विस्तारित into the संयुक्त राज्य.
बाद a श्रमिक विवाद कि led to the रद्दीकरण of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 ऋतु, the लीग resumed खेल अंतर्गत a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें of sponsorships, उपस्थिति, and television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled खिलाड़ी इससे सब over the संसार और फिलहाल रै खिलाड़ी इससे about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically गठित the बहुमत of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल, over the पास्ट चार प्लस दशकों the percentages of us और European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( अनुक्रम diptera ) ; it is लागू in particular to the लार्वे of brachyceran उड़ता, ऐसे as houseflies, चीज उड़ता, और blowflies, बल्कि than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes and Crane flies.
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be taken as such ; in many मानक पाठ्यपुस्तकों of कीटविज्ञान it करता नहीं appear in the अनुक्रमणिका at सब.
In many non-technical texts the पद is प्रयुक्त लिये कीट लार्वे in general.
Other स्त्रोत have coined उनके अपना परिभाषाएं ; लिये उदाहरण : ``...
The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared... '' and ``... लागू to the footless लार्वे of dipters. ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of चौड़ी महत्व in पारिस्थितिकी और आयुर्विज्ञान ; among अन्य भूमिकाएँ, विभिन्न प्रजाति हैं prominent in recycling carrion and garbage, attacking crops and foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, and causing myiasis.
Herod (, hordos, यूनानी :, hērōdēs ), भी ज्ञात as हेरोदेस the ग्रेट ( 73/74 bce – 4 bce in जेरिको ), was a Roman client king of Judea.
His epithet of `` the ग्रेट '' is widely विवादित as he is वर्णित as `` a madman जो murdered his own family and a great many rabbis ``.
He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere, सहित उसके विस्तार of the दूसरी टेम्पल in जेरूसलम ( sometimes referred to as हेरोदेस 's टेम्पल ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima.
Important details of his जीवनी हैं gleaned इससे the works of the 1st सदी ce roman–jewish इतिहासकार Josephus Flavius.
The Romans made Herod 's son, हेरोदेस archelaus, ethnarch of judea, samaria, और idumea ( biblical edom ) इससे 4 bce to 6 ce, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
archelaus थी judged incompetent by the रोमन सम्राट augustus जो तब संयुक्त samaria, judea उचित और idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41.
Herod 's अन्य बेटे हेरोदेस antipas थी tetrarch of Galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE.
ABO blood group antigens उपस्थित on रेड रक्त कोशिकाएं और igm antibodies present in the serum
the abo रक्त समूह प्रणाली is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण रक्त प्रकार प्रणाली ( or रक्त group system ) in human blood transfusion.
The associated anti-A and anti-B antibodies are usually IgM antibodies, which are usually उत्पादित in the पहला सालो of जीवन by sensitization to पर्यावरणीय substances ऐसे as खाना, जीवाणु, और viruses.
ABO blood types are also present in कुछ अन्य पशु, लिये उदाहरण apes ऐसे as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
साल 1907 ( mcmvii ) थी a आम साल starting on मंगलवार ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar.
Northville is an affluent city located in और विभाजित by ओकलैंड और वेन काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of मिशिगन.
The area is a उपनगरीय of महानगर Detroit.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,970 at the 2010 census.
Most of the city is in ओकलैंड काउंटी, और is घिरी by the city of Novi.
The Wayne County portion is घिरी by northville Township.
northville is परोसा by northville Public Schools.
The city is located पूर्वोत्तर of ऐन arbor और उत्तरपश्चिम of डेट्रॉयट.
ऐलेन stritch ( born फ़रवरी 2, 1925 ) is an American actress and vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous stage plays और musicals, विशेषता films, और अनेक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम.
She is known for her performance of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical कम्पनी, उसके 2001 one-woman दिखाएँ, ऐलेन stritch at स्वतंत्रता, और recently for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
She has been nominated लिये the टोनी पुरस्कार पाँच टाइम्स in विभिन्न श्रेणी.
Stritch is भी a three-time एमी पुरस्कार winner.
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of young offenders sentenced to कार्य in a जातियाँ सेवा कार्यक्रम, जहाँ वे obtain अलौकिक शक्तियां बाद a अजीब विद्युत storm.
The series opened in 2009 और is फिलहाल ongoing.
Antonia Thomas, Iwan Rheon, लॉरेन socha, नाथन stewart-jarrett, और रॉबर्ट sheehan हैं introduced as अलीशा डैनियल्स, साइमन bellamy, Kelly Bailey, Curtis Donovan, and Nathan Young respectively.
sheehan बाएँ बाद the दूसरी श्रेणी, replaced in the third by Joseph Gilgun as Rudy Wade.
After the fourth series was announced Rheon, Thomas and Socha had बाएँ उनके भूमिकाएँ और होता be replaced by नई वर्ण कार्ला crome, नाथन McMullen and Matt Stokoe, as Jess, Finn and Alex respectively.
Midway through the चौथी श्रेणी, stewart-jarrett बाएँ जबकि नताशा o'keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith.
On 19 March 2013, Channel 4 announced at a press event that वे have नवीनीकृत misfits लिये a पांचवां और फाइनल श्रेणी containing 8 एपीसोड.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the बहुमत of उसके करियर साथ the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having played क्वार्टरबैक लिये the अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ), ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), नई यॉर्क jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw लिये over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre प्रारंभ at the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी मिसिसिपी लिये four years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green खाड़ी on फ़रवरी 10, 1992, लिये the 19th चुनें in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the चौथी खेल of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in लिये घायल क्वार्टरबैक डॉन majkowski, और प्रारंभ प्रत्येक खेल through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the नई यॉर्क jets और प्रारंभ at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an NFL रिकार्ड 297 लगातार starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the AP Most Valuable Player तीन लगातार टाइम्स ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और दो सुपर कटोरी दिखावे ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi, सुपर कटोरी xxxii ), जीतना one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें, सबसे करियर interceptions thrown, सबसे लगातार starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a quarterback, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by उसके उपनाम `` the gunslinger ''.
The following is a list of notable वायुयान hijackings around the संसार.
the संसार चौड़ी वेब ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ), is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, one can दृश्य वेब पृष्ठों कि may contain टेक्स्ट, बिंब, वीडियो, और अन्य मल्टीमीडिया, और navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the cern, सर टिम berners-lee, अभी निदेशक of the संसार चौड़ी वेब consortium ( w3c ), लिखा a प्रस्ताव in कूच 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of नोड in जिससे the उपयोक्ता can ब्राउज़ at होगा '', और वे सरेआम introduced the project in December of the same year.
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) थी a राजनेता और attorney इससे ऑरेगॉन, संयुक्त राज्य, ज्ञात लिये उसके proclivity लिये opposing उसके पार्टियों ' नेतृत्व, और specifically for his opposition to the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds.
Born in Madison, Wisconsin, and educated at the विश्वविद्यालयों of wisconsin-madison और the विश्वविद्यालयों of मिनेसोटा विधि स्कूल, मोर्स स्थानांतरित to Oregon in 1930 and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law.
दौरान संसार युद्ध ii he थी निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट as a रिपब्लिकन ; he became an स्वतंत्र बाद Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952.
While an independent, he set a record for performing the दूसरी longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate.
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955, और थी reelected twice जबकि a सदस्य of that party.
Morse made a ब्रैड चलाएं लिये the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी 's अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1960.
A few years later, Morse was one of only two Senators who opposed the Gulf of Tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे प्राधिकृत the अध्यक्ष to लो सैन्य कार्रवाई in वियतनाम बगैर a घोषणा of war.
He continued to speak out against the war in the ensuing सालो, और खोया उसके 1968 बोली लिये reelection to bob packwood, जो criticized उसके strong opposition to the war.
Morse made दो अधिक बोलियों लिये reelection to the सीनेट पहले his death in 1974.
In parliamentary कार्यविधि, a गति to तालिका रै दो अलग and contradictory meanings:
In the United States, to तालिका प्रायः अर्थात् the to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to मूव लिये postponement of विचार ; a प्रस्ताव to suspend consideration of a pending motion.
much कम प्रायः, it अर्थात् a गति to `` put on the तालिका '' : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार ( or reconsideration ), a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world.
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom, to table means to move to प्लेस [ the टॉपिक ] upon the तालिका ( or to मूव to प्लेस on the तालिका ) : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
Both the अमरीकी और the अंग्रेजों dialects have the भाव of `` to तालिका '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the table.
The difference is the विचार of कया the तालिका is लिये, कि of a शेल्फ बंद to the पक्ष, or an active work bench.
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work bench, साथ the टॉपिक होने the बीच of ध्यान, माना और discussed by सब जबतक it can be resolved, at which point it is taken off the 'table '.
The American sense is that the table is जैसे कि of a शेल्फ, अभिलेख, or long-term भंडार यंत्र, जहाँ the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there.
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 American 3D computer एनिमेटेड comedy-drama थाना फिल्मी, और the तीसरा किश्त in the Toy Story series.
It was produced by पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन studios और वितरित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Pictures.
Directed by Lee Unkrich, the film थी released विश्वव्यापी इससे जून through अक्तूबर in डिज़्नी डिजिटल 3-d, reald, and IMAX 3D.
Toy Story 3 was also the first film to be released theatrically साथ dolby घेर 7.1 sound.
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt, while Unkrich wrote the story along साथ जॉन lasseter और एंड्रयू stanton, क्रमशः निदेशक और co-writer of the दो पहला films.
The प्लाट focuses on the खिलौने वुडी, बज़ lightyear, और उनके मित्रों dealing with an uncertain future as their owner, Andy, prepares to leave for college.
Actors Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Don Rickles, Estelle Harris, John ratzenberger, वालेस shawn, जेफ़ pidgeon, jodi बेंसन, R. ली ermey, जॉन मॉरिस, और लॉरी metcalf reprised उनके voice-over roles from the previous films.
Jim Varney, who played Slinky Dog in the first two films, and Joe Ranft, who portrayed lenny और wheezy, दोनो died पहले उत्पादन began on खिलौना स्टोरी 3.
The role of Slinky Dog थी लिया over by ब्लेक क्लार्क ( a dost of varney ), जबकि ranft 's वर्ण और विभिन्न अन्य यहूद written out of the story.
New वर्ण शामिल प्रदर्शन by ned beatty, टिमोथी डाल्टन, क्रिस्टन schaal, Bonnie Hunt, Whoopi Goldberg, Jeff Garlin, Richard Kind, and Michael Keaton.
The feature broke shrek the तिहाई रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने दिन उत्तर अमरीकी सकल लिये an animated film unadjusted for inflation, and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing खोलने वीकेंड लिये a पिक्चर्स फिल्मी, as खूब as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June.
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, दोनो in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा, और विश्वव्यापी.
in जल्दी अगस्त, it became पिक्चर्स 's highest-grossing फिल्मी at the उत्तर अमरीकी बक्सा दफ्तर ( surpassing ढूंढना nemo ), और the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब समय विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that month, Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is फिलहाल the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time.
खिलौना स्टोरी 3 थी मनोनीत लिये पाँच अकादमी पुरस्कार, सहित बेहतरीन चित्र, बेहतरीन adapted Screenplay, and Best Sound Editing.
It was the तीसरा एनिमेटेड फिल्मी ( बाद सौंदर्य और the जानवर और up ) to be मनोनीत for Academy Award for Best Picture.
It won the awards लिये बेहतरीन एनिमेटेड विशेषता और बेहतरीन Original Song.
John Levell Starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an अमरीकी रिटायर्ड पेशेवर बास्केट शूटिंग guard.
Starks was सूचीबद्ध at 6'5 '' और 190 पाउंड दौरान his NBA playing career.
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 एनबीए ड्राफ्ट बाद उपस्थित चार कॉलेजों in उसके देशी ओक्लाहोमा, सहित ओक्लाहोमा State University, he gained fame while playing for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s.
सुरक्षित डिजिटल or ( sd ) is a non-volatile मेमोरी कार्ड स्वरूप लिये उपयोग in पोर्टेबल डिवाइस, ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन, डिजिटल cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure Digital मानक is कायम by the sd कार्ड संघ ( sda ).
SD technologies have महरूम implemented in अधिक than 400 ब्रांड्स आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद categories and more than 8,000 models.
The Secure डिजिटल स्वरूप शामिल चार कार्ड परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन different form factors.
The four families are the original standard-capacity ( sdsc ), the high-capacity ( sdhc ), the extended-capacity ( sdxc ), और the sdio, जिससे combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form factors हैं the असली आकार, the `` मिनी '' आकार, और the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are अनेक combinations of रूप कारकों और यंत्र परिवारों.
Electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी कार्ड in a मेजबान यंत्र निर्मित to hold a larger card.
Host डिवाइस कि comply साथ नए संस्करण of the specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept older SD cards, but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A नए कार्ड may प्रस्ताव वृहद क्षमता than the host device can handle.
A newer card may use a संचिका प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र can नहीं navigate.
Use of an SDIO card requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed लिये the input/output कृत्यों the कार्ड provides.
The organization of the कार्ड थी बदला starting साथ the sdhc परिवार.
Some vendors produced sdsc ताश ऊपर 1 gb पहले the sda था मानकीकृत a method of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ और assure users of compatibility.
Hugh John Mungo Grant ( born 9 सितंबर 1960 ) is a अंग्रेजों कर्ता और फिल्मी निर्माता.
He has प्राप्त a सुनहरी ग्लोब, a bafta, और an Honorary César.
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 अरब इससे 25 नाट्य रिलीज worldwide.
Grant achieved अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्टारडम बाद appearing in रिचर्ड कर्टिस 's कामयाब चार Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He used this breakthrough role as a बारंबार cinematic persona दौरान the 1990s, delivering कॉमिक प्रदर्शन in मुख्यधारा films जैसे Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ).
By the turn of the 21st सदी, he था स्थापित खुद as a अग्रणी man skilled with a satirical comic talent.
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a कैड in ब्रिजेट जोन्स 's डायरी ( 2001 ), परिचय a लड़के ( 2002 ), प्रेम दरअसल ( 2003 ), और अमरीकी dreamz ( 2006 ).
He later played against type साथ अनेक कैमियो भूमिकाएँ in the एपिक नाटक फिल्मी बादल एटलस ( 2012 ).
Within the film industry, Grant is cited as an anti-film स्टार जो approaches उसके भूमिकाएँ जैसे a अक्षर कर्ता, और कोशिशें to मेक उसके एक्टिंग appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant टच of विडंबना / sarcasm और पढ़ाई शारीरिक mannerisms as खूब as उसके precisely-timed संवाद delivery and facial expressions.
The entertainment media 's कवरेज of ग्रान्ट 's जीवन बंद the बिग स्क्रीन रै प्रायः निष्प्रभ his work as a thespian.
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the profession of एक्टिंग, और in उसके तिरस्कार towards the संस्कृति of हस्ती और दुश्मनी towards the media.
In a career spanning 30 years, Grant has repeatedly claimed that acting is नहीं a सच्चा कॉलिंग लकिन बस a जॉब he गिरी into.
the हान राजवंश ( ; ) ( 206 bc – 220 ad ) थी an इम्पीरियल राजवंश of चीन, preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
It was founded by the rebel leader लियू बंग, ज्ञात मरणोपरांत as सम्राट gaozu of हान.
It was briefly interrupted by the xin राजवंश ( 9–23 ad ) of the पूर्व रीजेंट वांग Mang.
This interregnum separates the हान into दो अवधि : the पश्चिमी हान ( 206 bc – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ).
Spanning over चार सदियां, the काल of the हान राजवंश is माना a golden age in Chinese history.
To this day, China 's बहुमत जातीय समूह refers to itself as the `` हान लोगों '' और the चाइनीज script is referred to as `` Han characters ``.
The Han Empire was divided into क्षेत्रों सीधे नियंत्रित by the सेंट्रल सरकारी, ज्ञात as commanderies, और a क्रमांक of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
These kingdoms gradually lost all vestiges of उनके स्वतंत्रता, विशेषकर following the विद्रोह of the सात States.
The Xiongnu, a nomadic confederation which dominated the पूर्वी यूरेशियाई स्तान, पराजित the हान फौज in बैटल in 200 bc.
Following the शिकस्त, a राजनैतिक विवाह गठबंधन थी negotiated in जिससे the Han became the de facto inferior partner.
When, despite the treaty, the Xiongnu जारी to रेड हान सीमायें, सम्राट wu of हान ( r. 141–87 bc ) शुभारम्भ अनेक सैन्य अभियान विरूद्ध them.
The ultimate Han victory in ये युद्धों आखिरकार मजबूर the xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries.
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the tarim जलाशय of सेंट्रल एशिया और helped स्थापित the विशाल व्यापार संजाल ज्ञात as the रेशा सड़क, which reached as far as the Mediterranean world.
Han forces managed to divide the xiongnu into दो स्पर्धा राष्ट्र, the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी xiongnu, और मजबूर the उत्तरी Xiongnu across the Ili River.
Despite these victories, the territories उत्तर of हान 's सीमायें यहूद जल्दी overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation.
After 92 AD, the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics, engaging in violent power struggles between the विभिन्न consort clans of the empresses और सम्राज्ञी dowagers, causing the हान 's परम downfall.
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by विशाल daoist धार्मिक समाजों जिससे instigated the पीला पगड़ी विद्रोह and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion.
following the मौत of सम्राट ling ( r. 168–189 ad ), the राजमहल हिजड़े suffered होलसेल नरसंहार by सैन्य अधिकारियों, allowing सदस्यों of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords and divide the empire.
When Cao pi, किंग of वेई, usurped the सिंहासन इससे सम्राट Xian, the Han Dynasty ceased to exist.
the हान राजवंश थी an आयु of आर्थिक समृद्धि और देखी a significant विकास of the धन अर्थव्यवस्था पहला स्थापित during the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage जारी by the सेंट्रल सरकारी मिंट in 119 bc remained the मानक coinage of चीन जबतक the तंग Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ).
To pay लिये इसके सैन्य अभियान और the उपनिवेश of newly conquered frontier territories, the सरकारी nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC.
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period, and the खोया आय थी recouped through heavily taxing निजी उद्यमियों.
The सम्राट थी at the शिखर of Han society.
He presided over the Han government but shared power with both the धामों और नियुक्त मंत्रियों जो आए largely इससे the scholarly gentry class.
From the reign of सम्राट wu onward, the चाइनीज अदालत officially प्रायोजित confucianism in शिक्षा और अदालत politics, synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu.
This policy endured जबतक the पतन of the चिंग Dynasty in 1911 AD.
Science और प्रौद्योगिकी दौरान the हान काल देखी significant अग्रिम, सहित papermaking, the nautical परिचालन अरित्र, the उपयोग of ऋणात्मक संख्याएँ in गणित, the raised-relief map, the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for astronomy, and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
Tourette syndrome ( also पुकारा tourette 's सिंड्रोम, tourette 's विकार, गाइल्स de la tourette सिंड्रोम, gts or, अधिक commonly, बस tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic.
These tics characteristically मोम और wane, can be suppressed temporarily, और हैं preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is पारिभाषित as भाग of a वर्णक्रम of टिक विकार, जिससे शामिल transient and chronic tics.
Tourette 's was once considered a rare and bizarre syndrome, most often associated with the मुँह of obscene शब्द or socially अनुचित और अपमानजनक remarks ( coprolalia ), लकिन इस लक्षण is उपस्थित in तभी a छोटी अल्पसंख्यक of people with Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition, लकिन it is नहीं सदा correctly पहचाना क्युकी सबसे मामले हैं mild और the गंभीरता of tics decreases लिये most children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age children is उच्चतर, साथ the अधिक आम tics of नजर blinking, खाँसी, गला clearing, sniffing, and facial movements.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, and tourette 's करता नहीं adversely affect प्रज्ञा or जीवन प्रत्याशा.
जेनेटिक और पर्यावरणीय कारकों खेल a role in the etiology of Tourette 's, but the exact causes are unknown.
In सबसे मामले, दवा is unnecessary.
There is no effective उपचार लिये प्रत्येक मामला of tics, लकिन निश्चित medications और therapies can help when their use is warranted.
Education is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of कोई उपचार योजना, और स्पष्टीकरण and reassurance alone are often sufficient treatment.
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) such as attention-deficit अतिसक्रियता विकार ( adhd ) और obsessive–compulsive विकार ( ओसीडी ) हैं उपस्थित in अनेक मरीजों देखी in tertiary specialty क्लिनिक.
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the व्यक्तिगत than the tics कि हैं the hallmark of tourette 's, hence it is महत्वपूर्ण to correctly पहचानो comorbid conditions and treat them.
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of उसके निवासी, जॉर्जेस अल्बर्ट édouard ब्रूटस गाइल्स de la tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a फ्रेंच चिकित्सक और neurologist, जो published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885.
सनबीम बैज.
Sunbeam was a marque पंजीकृत by जॉन marston co. ltd of wolverhampton, England, in 1888.
The company first made bicycles, then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until about 1936, and लागू the marque to सब तीन फ़ॉर्म of परिवहन.
The company also manufactured aero इंजन in the पहला संसार युद्ध और 647 वायुयान दौरान the दूसरी World War.
A Sunbeam was the first British car to win a ग्रैंड प्रिक्स रेस, और नियत a क्रमांक of जमीन गति रिकॉर्ड.
The company went into receivership in 1935 और थी खरीदा by the rootes समूह, जिससे जारी to use the Sunbeam marque.
Fox News Channel ( FNC ), also known as Fox News, is a cable news चैनल स्वामित्व by the फॉक्स entertainment समूह, a subsidiary of न्यूज निगम.
As of April 2009, the channel was available to 102 million households in the United राज्य और to दर्शक internationally, प्रसारण primarily इससे इसके नई यॉर्क studios.
The channel was निर्मित by australian-american मीडिया mogul रुपर्ट मर्डोक, जो नियुक्त former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO.
It शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर 7, 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers.
It grew दौरान the लेट 1990s और 2000s to become the प्रबल केबल news network in the United States.
Critics have stated that Fox News चैनल promotes रूढ़िवादी राजनैतिक स्थितियाँ और पक्षपातपूर्ण reporting.
Commentators, news anchors, and reporters at फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल have responded कि न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग और राजनैतिक commentary operate independently of प्रत्येक other, and have denied any bias in news reporting.
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the midline of the face ) from both the mandibular second premolars of the मुँह लकिन mesial ( toward the midline of the फेस ) इससे दोनो mandibular second molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( lower ) मेहराब of the मुँह, और generally opposes the ऊर्ध्वहनु ( अपर ) पहला molars और the ऊर्ध्वहनु 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion.
The function of this molar is similar to that of all molars in लिहाज़ to पीस होने the प्रिंसिपल कार्रवाई दौरान mastication, commonly ज्ञात as चबाने.
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars : two on the buccal ( पक्ष निकटतम the गाल ), दो lingual ( पक्ष निकटतम the जीभ ), और एक distal.
There are great differences between the पतझड़ी ( baby ) mandibular molars और those of the स्थाई mandibular molars, भी हालांकि उनके फलन are similar.
The स्थाई mandibular molars हैं नहीं माना to have कोई दांत that precede it.
Despite being नामित molars, the पतझड़ी molars हैं followed by permanent premolars.
in the सार्वभौमिक प्रणाली of संकेतन, the पतझड़ी mandibular first molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase.
The right deciduous mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` s '', और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` L ''.
The international संकेतन रै a अलग प्रणाली of संकेतन.
Thus, the सही पतझड़ी mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 84 '', and the left one is known as `` 74 ''.
In the universal system of notation, the स्थाई mandibular पहला molars हैं designated by a number.
The right permanent mandibular first molar is ज्ञात as `` 30 '', और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` 19 ''.
The Palmer notation uses a क्रमांक in संयोजन साथ a प्रतीक designating in जिससे quadrant the tooth is found.
For this tooth, the left and सही पहला molars होता have the वही क्रमांक, `` 6 '', लकिन the सही एक होता have the प्रतीक, `` ┐ '', over it, जबकि the left one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The international notation has a अलग क्रमांकन प्रणाली than the पिछला दो, और the सही स्थाई mandibular पहला molar is known as `` 46 '', and the left one is known as `` 36 ''.
Mandibular primary first molars प्रायः have चार गूदा horns.
The first molar is usually the first permanent दाँत to erupt और रै वयस्क undertones.
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB, toward midline and cheek ), mesiolingual ( ml, toward midline और जीभ ), distolingual ( dl, दूर इससे midline और towards जीभ ), distobuccal ( db, दूर इससे midline और toward गाल ), और distal ( d, दूर इससे midline ), सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम of decreasing size.
Listed in order of decreasing height they हैं : ml, dl, df, mf, और D. an आठवीं cusp थी मिला in a प्राथमिक दूसरी lower molar in an Argentinean child.
viewed इससे the शीर्ष of the दाँत ( occlusal दृश्य ), the mandibular पहला molar is pentagonal ( पाँच तरफा ) in आकार और tapers toward the lingual, with the sides being the buccal surface, the mesial surface, the lingual surface, distal surface, and the distobuccal surface.
The occlusal सतह रै चार डोले.
The सेंट्रल नाली is नहीं सीधा लकिन रनों bas the बीच of the दाँत mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial, central, central, and distal ).
The distobuccal groove रनों इससे the distal गड्ढे in the सेंट्रल नाली distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps.
the lingual नाली रनों इससे the अधिक distal of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the central groove toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps.
The buccal groove runs from the more mesial of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the buccal सतह between the mesiobuccal और distobuccal पुलिन ending in the buccal pit.
The portion of the central groove between the सेंट्रल गड्ढों is termed the लुईस ऑफसेट और is अनिवार्य to खाता लिये the स्थितियाँ of the buccal और lingual डोले ( buccal नाली होने अधिक mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ).
From the buccal ( buccal दृश्य ), दो roots are present.
The distal root is generally straighter, हालांकि दोनो प्रायः have a पतला distal curvature.
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal सम्पर्क the सटा दांत और हैं स्तिथ at the जंक्शन of the occlusal और middle thirds of the crown.
The Florida Legislature is the two houses that act as the state विधानमंडल of the u.S. राज्य of फ्लोरिडा.
the फ्लोरिडा संविधान राज्य कि `` the विधान शक्ति of the राज्य shall be vested in a legislature of the State of Florida, '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives.
the विधानमंडल is seated at the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee.
stained कांच चित्रण of डेनियल interceding with Arioch, the king 's guard.
Arioch had been चार्ज साथ हत्या सब the हिकमत मेन बाद they were not able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
Daniel 2 is the second अध्याय of the किताब of डेनियल in the यहूदी बाइबल.
The chapter 's सोर्स टेक्स्ट is predominantly written in Aramaic.
according to the टेक्स्ट, nebuchadnezzar is the किंग of बाबुल who is troubled by his dreams.
He मांगे an निर्वचन लिये उसके सपनो or होगा have उसके mystic interpreters executed.
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret the किंग 's सपनो और गुणगान God with a short psalm.
God gives डेनियल a दृष्टि in the रात्रि to खुलासा the king 's dream.
Able to satisfy the king, Daniel is प्रचारित over the पूरे प्रांत of बाबुल.
One comcast बीच, the मुख्यालय of comcast in Philadelphia, PA.
The old comcast लोगो इससे 1969 to 1999, जब it थी replaced with the crescent logo.
the comcast निगम is an अमरीकी प्रदाता of entertainment, information and communications products and services.
It is the largest cable operator, one of the biggest mass media, home Internet service provider, and third largest home telephone service provider in the संयुक्त राज्य, providing केबल टेलीविज़न, ब्रॉडबैंड अंतरजाल, टेलीफोन सेवा और in कुछ क्षेत्रों घर सुरक्षा ( सहित burglar सचेतक, निगरानी कैमरे, आग सचेतक प्रणालियों और घर स्वचालन ) to दोनो आवासीय and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia.
The company is headquartered in फिलाडेल्फिया, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
In 2011, Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media संगुटिका nbcuniversal इससे ge in जनवरी 2011, और began the प्रक्रम of खरीदना the बाकी 49 % on February 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 billion.
It completed the खरीदें on कूच 19, 2013.
Comcast भी रै significant पकड़कर in अनेक cable networks ( including E !
Entertainment Television, स्टाइल संजाल, g4, the गोल्फ़ चैनल और एनबीसी खेल संजाल ), वितरण ( theplatform ), और related businesses.
Comcast has been the विषय of आलोचना लिये क्रियाएँ सहित इसके stance on जाल neutrality, as well as poor results on customer satisfaction surveys.
porcupines हैं rodents साथ a कोट of शार्प कांटे, or quills, कि defend and camouflage them from predators.
वे हैं स्वदेशी to the americas, दक्षिणी Asia, and Africa.
Porcupines हैं the तीसरा largest of the rodents, पीछे the capybara और the beaver.
सबसे porcupines हैं परिचय long, साथ an long tail.
Weighing, वे हैं rounded, विशाल and slow.
porcupines आइये in विभिन्न शेड्स of भूरा, धूसर, and the unusual white.
Porcupines ' spiny सुरक्षा resembles कि of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs और monotreme echidnas.
The common साही is a herbivore.
It eats leaves, herbs, टहनियों और ग्रीन पौधे जैसे skunk गोभी और clover and in the winter it may eat bark.
The North American साही प्रायः climbs पेड़ to ढूँढें खाना.
The African porcupine is नहीं a climber और forages on the ground.
It is ज़्यादातर nocturnal, लकिन होगा sometimes forage for food in the day.
porcupines have become a pest in कीनिया और हैं eaten as a delicacy.
The नाम साही आता इससे मध्य फ्रेंच porc espin ( spined pig ).
a क्षेत्रीय अमरीकी नाम लिये the animal is quill pig.
First page of US patent 129,843 लिये सुधार in lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. मैककॉय ( may 2, 1844 – अक्तूबर 10, 1929 ) थी a ब्लैक canadian-american आविष्कारक and engineer, who was notable for his 57 U.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of steam engines.
Born फ़्री in कनाडा, he लौटे as a five-year-old चाइल्ड साथ उसके परिवार to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1847, where he lived for the rest of his life and became a US citizen.
Honda FCX Clarity, a hydrogen ईंधन कोशिका demonstration गाडी introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle कि उपयोग हाइड्रोजन as इसके onboard ईंधन लिये motive power.
हाइड्रोजन वाहनों शामिल हाइड्रोजन fueled स्पेस rockets, as खूब as automobiles and other transportation vehicles.
The power plants of such vehicles convert the chemical energy of हाइड्रोजन to mechanical उर्जा either by burning हाइड्रोजन in an आतंरिक दहन इंजन, or by reacting हाइड्रोजन साथ ऑक्सीजन in a fuel cell to run electric motors.
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling परिवहन is a कुंजी तत्व of a प्रस्तावित हाइड्रोजन economy.
Hydrogen fuel does not occur naturally on धरती और यूँ is नहीं an उर्जा सोर्स ; बल्कि it is an उर्जा carrier.
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels, but it can be उत्पादित using स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as हवा, सौर, or नाभिकीय ) कि हैं intermittent, too व्याप्त or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen पौधे, using electrolysis of जल, हैं exploring technologies to उद्धार costs low enough, and quantities great enough, to compete with traditional energy sources.
Many companies are working to develop technologies कि might efficiently exploit the संभावित of हाइड्रोजन उर्जा लिये मोबाईल uses.
The attraction of using hydrogen as an उर्जा करेंसी is कि, if हाइड्रोजन is prepared बगैर using चट्टान ईंधन inputs, गाडी नोदन होता नहीं योगदान to carbon dioxide emissions.
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost, low उर्जा सामग्री प्रति ईकाई आवाज़, ऊँची tankage weights, बहुत ऊँची भंडार पोत pressures, the भंडार, परिवहन और भरना of गैसीय or द्रव हाइड्रोजन in वाहनों, the विशाल निवेश in अवसंरचना that would be required to fuel vehicles, and the inefficiency of production processes.
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट of सरकारी of sacramento काउंटी.
It is स्तिथ at the संगम of the sacramento नदी और the अमरीकी नदी in the northern portion of California 's expansive Central Valley.
With an अनुमानित 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic बीच of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल सात काउंटी साथ an अनुमानित 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, और the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल, as खूब as the 25th largest in the संयुक्त States.
Sacramento was cited by Time पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's सबसे ethnically और racially एकीकृत city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the स्विस अप्रवासी जॉन sutter, sr., उसके बेटे जॉन Sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew जल्दी धन्यवाद to the सुरक्षा of sutter 's फोर्ट, which was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento was a major distribution पाइंट, a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच, और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल, stagecoaches, riverboats, the टेलीग्राफ, the टट्टू एक्स्प्रेस, और the पहला transcontinental Railroad.
कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों, sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as Sacramento State or Sac State, is the largest local university.
It is एक of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system.
Drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर, sacramento.
University of the प्रशांत 's mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is स्तिथ in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In जोड, the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, डेविस is located in nearby Davis, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल, is स्तिथ in the नगर of sacramento.
The Apple Store is a कड़ी of खुदरा स्टोर्स स्वामित्व और संचालित by ठहराना Inc., dealing in computers and consumer electronics.
The स्टोर्स बेचें मैकिंटोश निजी कंप्यूटर, तन्त्र, ipods, ipads, आईफ़ोन, third-party accessories, and other consumer electronics such as Apple TV.
Some high profile stores feature a थिएटर लिये प्रस्तुतियों और वर्कशॉप और a स्टुडियो लिये प्रशिक्षण साथ ठहराना उत्पाद ; सब स्टोर्स प्रस्ताव a प्रतिभाशाली बार लिये तकनीकी support and repairs, as well as free workshops available to the public.
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson, the former Senior Vice President of खुदरा परिचालन, the ठहराना स्टोर्स have, according to an आलेख in the नई यॉर्क टाइम्स, महरूम जिम्मेदार लिये `` [ turning ] the उबाऊ कंप्यूटर बिक्री मंजिल into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets ''.
, Apple has 405 स्टोर्स विश्वव्यापी, साथ वैश्विक बिक्री of अरब in merchandise in 2011, और वे सीसे the संयुक्त राज्य खुदरा market in terms of sales per unit area.
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011 ) थी an अमरीकी उद्योगों और आविष्कारक, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the co-founder, अध्यक्ष, और सीईओ of ठहराना Inc.
Through Apple, he थी widely पहचाना as a charismatic पायोनियर of the निजी कंप्यूटर क्रान्ति और लिये उसके influential करियर in the कंप्यूटर और उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स फ़ील्ड, transforming `` one industry after another, from computers and smartphones to music and movies... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief कार्यपालिका of पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन studios ; he became a सदस्य of the फलक of निर्देशकों of the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी कम्पनी in 2006, when Disney acquired Pixar.
Jobs was among the पहला to देखिए the वाणिज्यिक संभावित of xerox parc 's चूहा -ड्राइवn आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस, जिससे led to the creation of the Apple Lisa and, one year later, the Macintosh.
He also played a role in introducing the laserwriter, एक of the पहला widely उपलब्धियाँ लेज़र printers, to the market.
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985, Jobs left ठहराना और संस्थापित अगला, a कंप्यूटर मंच विकास कम्पनी specializing in the higher-education and business markets.
In 1986, he acquired the कंप्यूटर ग्राफिक्स प्रभाग of Lucasfilm, which was spun off as Pixar.
He was credited in Toy स्टोरी ( 1995 ) as an कार्यपालिका producer.
He served as CEO and majority shareholder जबतक डिज़्नी 's खरीदें of पिक्चर्स in 2006.
In 1996, after Apple had failed to deliver its ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली, copland, gil amelio turned to अगला कंप्यूटर, और the nextstep मंच became the न्यास लिये the मैक OS X.
Jobs returned to ठहराना as an सलाहकार, और took कंट्रोल of the कम्पनी as an interim CEO.
Jobs brought Apple from निकट दिवालियापन to profitability by 1998.
As the नई सीईओ of the कम्पनी, कार्य oversaw the विकास of the imac, itunes, ipod, iphone, और ipad, और on the services side, the company 's Apple Retail Stores, iTunes Store and the App Store.
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable वित्तीय रिटर्न, और propelled ठहराना to become the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान सरेआम traded कम्पनी in 2011.
The reinvigoration of the कम्पनी is regarded by अनेक टीकाकारों as एक of the महानतम turnarounds in business history.
In 2003, Jobs थी diagnosed साथ a अग्न्याशय neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it was initially treated, he reported a हार्मोन असंतुलन, underwent a जिगर प्रत्यारोपण in 2009, और appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
On medical छोड़ लिये सबसे of 2011, कार्य resigned in अगस्त कि साल, and was elected Chairman of the Board.
He died of respiratory arrest related to उसके metastatic ट्यूमर on अक्तूबर 5, 2011.
Jobs प्राप्त a क्रमांक of honors और पब्लिक मान्यता लिये उसके influence in the technology and music industries.
He has been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or simply `` visionary '', और रै महरूम वर्णित as the `` पिता of the डिजिटल क्रान्ति '', a `` निपुण of नवीनता '', और a `` डिज़ाइन perfectionist ''.
Entrance to section ( 52 ) of the कोलोसियम, साथ numerals स्टिल visible
Roman numerals, the numeric system in ancient Rome, uses combinations of अक्षर इससे the लैटिन वर्णमाला to signify मान.
The संख्याएँ 1 to 10 can be expressed in रोमन numerals as follows:
और.
The रोमन numeral प्रणाली is a cousin of Etruscan numerals.
Use of Roman numerals जारी बाद the मनाही of the Roman Empire.
From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in सबसे contexts by अधिक सुविधाजनक hindu-arabic numerals ; however इस process was gradual, and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day.
प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज Diagram
The effective nuclear charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net धनात्मक चार्ज अनुभवी by an इलेक्ट्रॉन in a multi-electron atom.
The पद `` प्रभावी '' is प्रयुक्त क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव of negatively चार्ज electrons prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
The effective नाभिकीय चार्ज अनुभवी by the बाहरी शेल electron is also called the core charge.
It is possible to determine the strength of the नाभिकीय चार्ज by looking at the ऑक्सीकरण क्रमांक of the atom.
इस is a सूची of एपीसोड इससे the डिस्कवरी चैनल series, Storm Chasers.
A rural stretch of I-5, with two lanes in प्रत्येक दिशा अलग by a विशाल grassy मध्य, और साथ cross-traffic सीमित to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D. आइज़नहावर नेशनल प्रणाली of अंतरराज्यीय और रक्षा राजमार्गों ( commonly ज्ञात as the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली, अंतरराज्यीय फ्रीवे प्रणाली, अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली, or बस the अंतरराज्यीय ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States.
The system is named लिये अध्यक्ष ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, जो championed इसके गठन.
Construction was authorized by the Federal Aid राजमार्ग अधिनियम of 1956, और the असली portion was completed 35 years later.
The network has चूंकि महरूम विस्तारित, और, it था a कुल लंबाई of, बनाना it the संसार 's दूसरी longest बाद चीन 's., परिचय one-quarter of सब गाडी miles driven in the country use the Interstate system.
The लागत of निर्माण रै महरूम अनुमानित at $ 425 अरब ( in 2006 डॉलर ), बनाना it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids ``.
The system has contributed in shaping the संयुक्त राज्य into a संसार आर्थिक महाशक्ति और a अत्यधिक industrialized nation.
.eu is the देश कोड top-level डोमेन ( cctld ) लिये the European Union ( EU ).
Launched on 7 December 2005, the domain is उपलब्धियाँ लिये संगठनों in और निवासियों of eu सदस्य states.
The TLD is administered by eurid, a consortium originally consisting of the नेशनल cctld रजिस्ट्री ऑपरेटर of बेल्जियम, स्वीडन, और इटली, joined बाद by the नेशनल registry operator of the Czech Republic.
ट्रेडमार्क स्वामी यहूद समर्थ to submit पंजीकरण through a सूर्योदय period, in an effort to prevent cybersquatting.
पूरा पंजीकरण प्रारंभ on 7 April 2006.
Meister means master in जर्मनी ( as in निपुण craftsman, or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ).
The word is akin to maestro.
In sports, Meister is used for the current नेशनल, यूरोपीय or संसार चैंपियन ( deutscher Meister, *Europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many modern day German पुलिस शक्तियां उपयोग the शीर्षक meister.
During the Second संसार युद्ध, meister थी the उच्चतम आयोजिक rank of the Ordnungspolizei.
Meister रै महरूम उधार into अंग्रेज़ी कठबोली, जहाँ it is used in compound nouns.
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical ज्ञान और व्यावहारिक कौशल in उसके व्यवसायिक, कारोबार, or कुछ अन्य kind of work or activity.
लिये उदाहरण, a “puzzle-meister” होता be someone highly skilled at solving puzzles.
These neologisms sometimes have a व्यंग्यात्मक intent ( लिये उदाहरण, “stubble-meister” लिये किसी साथ a छोटी, neat beard or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ).
Mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों is an अमरीकी live-action children 's टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय teenagers साथ super-powers, based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise, Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger.
Both the दिखाएँ और इसके सम्बन्धित merchandise देखी unbridled overnight success, becoming a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere months.
Under the original name, `` Mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the series ran इससे 1993 to 1995 और शाखित the विशेषता फिल्मी mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों : The Movie.
The second and तीसरा सीज़न of the दिखाएँ खींचा on फुटेज और तत्व इससे the सुपर sentai श्रेणी gosei sentai dairanger और Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively, though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains.
Only the mecha and the Kiba रेंजर वेशभूषा ( worn by the श्वेत रेंजर ) यहूद retained इससे dairanger लिये the दूसरी ऋतु, while only the mecha from Kakuranger were featured in the third season.
However the Kakuranger वेशभूषा यहूद बाद प्रयुक्त लिये the शीर्षक वर्ण of the mini-series, Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers.
The series was produced by MMPR Productions, वितरित by saban entertainment, और aired on फॉक्स बच्चे.
The show 's merchandise थी उत्पादित और वितरित by बंदाई entertainment.
In 1996, the series was rebranded as the शक्ति रेंजरों मताधिकार ; renaming the श्रेणी प्रत्येक साल बाद, और using वेशभूषा, प्रॉप्स, और फुटेज इससे subsequent Super Sentai series, as well as changing the cast and storyline.
While an overarching कथानक होता continue जबतक शक्ति रेंजरों खोया आकाशगंगा, subsequent श्रेणी after MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense.
In 2010, a re-version of mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों, साथ a नई लोगो, कॉमिक book-referenced ग्राफिक्स, और अतिरिक्त वैकल्पिक खास effects, was broadcast on ABC Kids, and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series.
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849 ) was an अमरीकी लेखक, कवि, एडिटर और साहित्यिक आलोचक, माना भाग of the American Romantic Movement.
Best ज्ञात लिये उसके किस्से of रहस्य और the घोर, पो थी एक of the earliest अमरीकी practitioners of the short story and is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre.
He is further credited साथ contributing to the उभरते विधा of विज्ञान fiction.
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a जीना through लिखने अलोन, resulting in a financially मुश्किल जीवन और करियर.
He was born as एडगर पो in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स ; he थी अनाथ यंग जब उसके माँ died shortly after his father abandoned the family.
Poe was taken in by John and frances allan, of रिचमंड, वर्जिनिया, but they never formally adopted him.
he attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of वर्जिनिया लिये एक सेमेस्टर but left due to lack of money.
बाद enlisting in the फौज और बाद failing as an अधिकारी 's cadet at वेस्ट पाइंट, Poe parted ways with the Allans.
His publishing career began humbly, with an anonymous संग्रहण of कविताएं, tamerlane और अन्य कविताएं ( 1827 ), credited तभी to `` a Bostonian ''.
पो switched उसके फ़ोकस to गद्य और खर्च the अगला अनेक सालो working लिये साहित्यिक journals and periodicals, becoming known for his own style of literary criticism.
His कार्य मजबूर उसे to मूव among अनेक शहरों, सहित बाल्टीमोर, Philadelphia, and New York City.
In Baltimore in 1835, he शादीशुदा वर्जिनिया clemm, उसके 13-year-old cousin.
In जनवरी 1845 पो प्रकाशित उसके कविता, `` The Raven ``, to instant success.
His wife died of तपेदिक दो सालो बाद इसके प्रकाशन.
He began planning to produce his अपना जर्नल, the penn ( बाद renamed the स्टाइलस ), हालांकि he died पहले it could be produced.
On October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in Baltimore ; the कारण of उसके मौत is अनजान और रै महरूम variously attributed to दारू, दिमाग जमघट, हैजा, दवाएँ, दिल disease, rabies, suicide, tuberculosis, and other agents.
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the संसार, as खूब as in specialized फ़ील्ड, ऐसे as cosmology और क्रिप्टोग्राफी.
Poe and his कार्य appear throughout लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in साहित्य, music, films, and television.
A number of his घरों हैं समर्पित संग्रहालय today.
The Mystery Writers of America present an सालाना पुरस्कार ज्ञात as the एडगर पुरस्कार लिये विशिष्ट work in the mystery genre.
Lions are obligate carnivores ; वे आवश्यकता up to सात गामा ( 15 पाउंड ) of मांस प्रति day.
A major घटक of उनके आहार is the flesh of विशाल स्तनधारियों, like this African buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin, caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is an सजीव कि गर्भाशयी इसके उर्जा और nutrient आवश्यकताएँ इससे a आहार consisting मुख्यतः or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
Animals that depend solely on एनिमल flesh लिये उनके nutrient आवश्यकताएँ हैं माना carnivores जबकि those कि भी consume non-animal food are considered carnivores.
Omnivores also consume दोनो एनिमल और non-animal खाना, और अलावा इससे the अधिक सामान्य परिभाषा, वहीँ is no clearly पारिभाषित ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore.
A carnivore कि sits at the शीर्ष of the foodchain is an apex predator.
Plants that capture and digest कीट हैं पुकारा मांसाहारी plants.
Similarly, fungi that कैप्चर microscopic पशु हैं प्रायः पुकारा carnivorous fungi.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित क्युकी of the दूसरी संसार युद्ध.
The current champions are स्पेन, जो जीती the 2010 टूर्नामेंट.
The current स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 संसार कप tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग national teams.
Brazil have जीती पाँच टाइम्स, और वे हैं the तभी टोली to have played in every tournament.
The अन्य संसार कप विजेता हैं इटली, साथ चार शीर्षक ; जर्मनी, साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता Uruguay, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the फाइनल मैच of the 2006 फीफा World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, रूस in 2018, और Qatar in 2022.
Heroes is an American विज्ञान fiction टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी निर्मित by टिम क्रिंग कि appeared on एनबीसी लिये चार सीज़न इससे September 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
The series tells the stories of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities, और कैसा ये abilities लो प्रभाव in the characters ' lives.
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे, using multi-episode स्टोरी arcs कि निर्माण upon a larger, अधिक encompassing arc.
The series was produced by Tailwind Productions in संघ साथ सार्वभौमिक मीडिया studios.
it थी फिल्माया primarily in लॉस एंजिल्स, California.
Four पूरा सीज़न aired, समाप्ति on फ़रवरी 8, 2010.
The critically acclaimed पहला ऋतु था a चलाएं of 23 एपीसोड और garnered an औसत of 14.3 लाख दर्शक in the संयुक्त राज्य, receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years.
the दूसरी ऋतु of नायक आकर्षित an औसत of 13.1 लाख दर्शक in the U.S., and marked NBC 's sole series among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 season.
Heroes has earned a number of awards and nominations, सहित प्राइमटाइम एमी पुरस्कार, सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार and British Academy Television Awards.
An online extension of the series, Heroes 360 Experience, later rebranded as नायक evolutions, थी निर्मित to explore the नायक ब्रह्मांड और provides इनसाइट into the show 's mythology.
Other official Heroes media शामिल मैगज़ीन, कार्रवाई आंकड़े, tie-in और इंटरैक्टिव वेबसाइटों, a मोबाईल खेल, a novel, clothing and other merchandise.
In the fall of 2008, NBC Digital Entertainment released a series of online सामग्री लिये the गर्मियाँ, सहित अधिक असली वेब सामग्री, बेतार आईटीवी interactivity, ग्राफिक novels उपलब्धियाँ लिये mobile viewing and webisodes.
NBC announced नायक रद्दीकरण on may 14, 2010.
Afterward, the network considered making a टेलीविज़न खास इवेंट to conclude the श्रेणी ; however, on सितंबर 9, 2010, एनबीसी घोषित the निर्णय to रोकें कोई further विकास of the Heroes franchise.
Tim Kring then suggested that the broad premise of नायक storylines अनुमत लिये the मताधिकार to वापसी लिये प्रशंसक, लकिन he किया नहीं बताएँ जब or in what media format.
On April 17, 2013, tv लकीर reported कि एमएसएन थी in बाते to revive the series with a new cast.
जॉन pierpont `` J. P. ''
Morgan ( April 17, 1837 – March 31, 1913 ) was an अमरीकी फाइनेंसर, बैंकर, लोकसेवक और आर्ट कलेक्टर जो वर्चस्व कॉरपोरेट वित्त and industrial consolidation during his time.
In 1892 मॉर्गन arranged the विलय of एडिसन सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक और thomson-houston इलेक्ट्रिक कम्पनी to form General Electric.
After financing the creation of the Federal स्टील कम्पनी, he मिलाया in 1901 साथ the कार्नेगी स्टील कम्पनी और अनेक अन्य स्टील और आयरन व्यवसायों, सहित संचित स्टील और तार कम्पनी स्वामित्व by William Edenborn, to form the United States Steel Corporation.
Morgan died in Rome, Italy, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving उसके सौभाग्य और कारोबार to उसके बेटे, जॉन pierpont `` जोकर '' मॉर्गन, jr., और bequeathing उसके mansion और विशाल book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York.
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s, he and उसके साझेदार था वित्तीय निवेश in अनेक विशाल corporations और यहूद अभियुक्त by critics of controlling the nation 's high finance.
He directed the बैंकिंग गठबन्धन कि रोका the दहशत of 1907.
He was the leading financier of the Progressive Era, and his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped रूपांतरण अमरीकी कारोबार.
This is a list of episodes of the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी.
The episodes were directed by शिगेरू ueda और उत्पादित by the yggdrasil कार्यपालिका Committee which included Xebec and Genco.
The plot of the episodes is set in टोकियो और घूमती around रिन asōgi, an अमर निजी अन्वेषक, as वो explores the रहस्य of आधुनिक और near-future संसार और the अलौकिक कार्यक्रम that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself.
There are large time gaps in the आतंरिक कालक्रम between the पहला five episodes, ranging from one to thirty years.
The six episodes were broadcast monthly on AT-X चैनल in जापानी, between फ़रवरी 3 और जुलाई 6, 2008.
Each एपीसोड is 45 मिनट्स long.
Two pieces of theme म्यूज़िक हैं प्रयुक्त लिये the एपीसोड : the खोलने थीम `` alsatia '' और the समाप्ति थीम `` Cause Disarray ''.
Both were composed and performed by the जापानी मेटल बैंड Galneryus.
The श्रेणी थी उत्पादित to commemorate the दसवाँ वर्षगांठ of the at-x network it originally aired on.
Aerial photo of FLETC, where US digital forensics मानकों यहूद विकसित in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic विज्ञान encompassing the रिकवरी और छानबीन of सामग्री मिला in डिजिटल डिवाइस, प्रायः in relation to computer crime.
the पद डिजिटल forensics थी originally प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये कंप्यूटर forensics but has expanded to cover investigation of all devices capable of storing digital data.
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the लेट 1970s और जल्दी '80s, the अनुशासन विकसित in a haphazard manner दौरान the 1990s, और it थी नहीं जबतक the जल्दी 21st सदी कि national policies emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a किस्में of अनुप्रयोग.
The most common is to support or खण्डन a परिकल्पना पहले दण्ड or सिविल ( as भाग of the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्कवरी process ) courts.
Forensics may also feature in the private sector ; such as during internal corporate investigations or intrusion छानबीन ( a विशेषज्ञ जांच into the प्रकृति और extent of an अनधिकृत संजाल intrusion ).
the तकनीकी पहलू of an छानबीन is विभाजित into अनेक sub-branches, relating to the प्रकार of डिजिटल devices involved ; computer forensics, network forensics, forensic data analysis and mobile device forensics.
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure, forensic इमेजिंग ( अधिग्रहण ) और विश्लेषण of डिजिटल media and the production of a report into collected evidence.
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime, digital forensics can be used to विशेषता प्रमाण to विशिष्ट संदिग्धों, confirm alibis or कथन, determine intent, पहचानो sources ( for example, in copyright cases ), or authenticate documents.
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of forensic विश्लेषण ( जहाँ the usual उद्देश्य is to provide जवाब to a श्रेणी of simpler सवाल ) प्रायः involving complex time-lines or hypotheses.
A तुलना of the chromaticities enclosed by some color spaces.
A color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the way colors can be represented as tuples of संख्याएँ, typically as तीन or चार मान or color components ( e.g. RGB and CMYK are color models ).
However, a color model with no associated mapping फलन to an निरपेक्ष रंग स्पेस is a अधिक or कम मनमानी रंग प्रणाली साथ no कनेक्शन to कोई globally समझा प्रणाली of रंग निर्वचन.
Adding a certain mapping function between the रंग मॉडल और a निश्चित सन्दर्भ रंग स्पेस परिणाम in a definite `` पदचिह्न '' भीतर the सन्दर्भ color space.
This `` footprint '' is ज्ञात as a gamut, और, in संयोजन साथ the रंग model, defines a new color space.
For example, Adobe RGB and sRGB are दो अलग निरपेक्ष रंग स्पेसेस, दोनो आधारित on the RGB model.
In the most generic भाव of the परिभाषा ऊपर, रंग स्पेसेस can be पारिभाषित without the use of a color model.
These spaces, such as Pantone, are in प्रभाव a दिए नियत of names or संख्याएँ जिससे हैं पारिभाषित by the अस्तित्व of a corresponding set of physical color swatches.
This article focuses on the गणितीय मॉडल अवधारणा.
Labor Day is an American federal अवकाश observed on the पहला सोमवार in सितंबर, कि मनाता the economic and social contributions of workers.
Life insurance is a अनुबंध between an insured ( बीमे नीति होल्डर ) और an insurer, जहाँ the insurer वादे to pay a designated beneficiary a sum of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person.
Depending on the contract, other events ऐसे as टर्मिनल बीमारी or नाजुक बीमारी may also trigger payment.
The policy होल्डर typically pays a प्रीमियम, either regularly or as a lump sum.
Other expenses ( such as funeral खर्च ) हैं भी sometimes included in the benefits.
Life policies are विधिक अनुबंध और the शर्तें of the अनुबंध describe the limitations of the insured events.
Specific exclusions are often written into the contract to सीमा the देयता of the insurer ; आम उदाहरण हैं दावा relating to suicide, fraud, war, riot and civil commotion.
Life-based अनुबंध tend to पतन into दो प्रमुख categories:
Protection नीतियों – designed to provide a लाभ in the इवेंट of specified event, typically a lump sum payment.
A आम रूप of इस डिज़ाइन is term insurance.
Investment policies – where the main उद्देश्य is to सुकर the विकास of पूंजी by नियमित or सिंगल प्रीमियम.
Common forms ( in the us ) हैं पूरे जीवन, सार्वभौमिक जीवन और परिवर्तनीय जीवन नीतियों.
{ { infobox Holiday
Chinese नई साल
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( वियतनाम )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2, 1962 in yorba लिंडा, नारंगी काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, भी credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture.
Kapture began her career in films, most of जिससे यहूद नहीं विशाल वाणिज्यिक सफलताओं.
She went on to make a few television अतिथि दिखावे ( macgyver, 1st & टेन, और as a प्रतियोगी on the $ 100,000 पिरामिड ) पहले वो gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय एक्सपोज़र साथ her first major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings.
Kapture 's role as Rita, the other हाफ of the दो `` sams '' लिये लगभग 5 सालो, cemented her popularity.
Paired with रोब estes जो निभाई सार्जेंट क्रिस lorenzo, kapture gained वैश्विक मान्यता साथ साथ उसके costar since the show was broadcast in several countries.
Sergeant Lance आखिरकार became लेफ्टिनेंट तलवार by the समय kapture बाएँ the श्रेणी in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During her time with the series, Kapture briefly सत in the निदेशक 's कुर्सी, लिये दो एपीसोड.
She was interviewed for the रेशा stalkings ऋतु 1 dvd जिससे थी वितरित by लंगर खाड़ी entertainment और released in September 2004.
After a short hiatus from the screen following उसके निकास इससे रेशा stalkings, kapture लौटे in 1997 to the छोटी स्क्रीन और यूएसए संजाल.
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies, Perfect Crime ( आधारित on a सच्चा स्टोरी, भी पुकारा छुपा और तलाश : the जोआन जेन्सेन स्टोरी ), जिससे भी स्ट्रक्चर चमेली guy और उसके अंगरक्षक.
She later starred in a few other independent film projects and थिएटर प्रोडक्शन्स और था अनेक टेलीविज़न अतिथि appearances.
kapture भी था a पुनरावर्ती भूमिका on Baywatch as Alexis Ryker.
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the बेचैन इससे 2002 through 2004, जहाँ वो थी credited as mitzi kapture donahue, और स्ट्रक्चर in the made-for-tv फिल्म रात्रि of आतंक जिससे premiered March 26, 2006 on Lifetime Network.
उसके नवीनतम is a supporting भूमिका in परमेश्वर 's कानों, released in 2007.
Kapture is the आधिकारिक हस्ती प्रवक्ता लिये the xeroderma pigmentosum Society.
the एक्सबॉक्स 360 is the दूसरी वीडियो खेल कंसोल विकसित by और produced for Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 3 और निन्टेंडो 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
As of सितंबर 30, 2012, 70 लाख एक्सबॉक्स 360 consoles have महरूम बेची worldwide.
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on MTV on May 12, 2005, with detailed launch and खेल सूचना divulged बाद कि माह at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment एक्सपो ( e3 ).
The कंसोल बेची आउट completely upon रिलीज in सब regions except in Japan.
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service that allows players to compete online ; download arcade खेल, खेल demos, trailers, tv shows, म्यूज़िक और फिल्मों ; और इसके खिड़कियाँ मीडिया बीच मल्टीमीडिया सामर्थ्य.
The Xbox Live also offers अभिगम to विभिन्न ( प्रायः region-specific ) third-party media streaming applications.
At their E3 प्रस्तुतीकरण on जून 14, 2010, microsoft घोषित a redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360 that would ship on the same day.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model और सुविधाएँ एकीकृत 802.11 b/g/n wi-fi, toslink s/pdif ऑप्टिकल ऑडियो आउटपुट, पाँच USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port.
Older models of the एक्सबॉक्स 360 have चूंकि महरूम discontinued.
The first new console to be released features a 250 GB hard drive, while a बाद, कम महंगी sku सुविधाएँ 4 gb आतंरिक storage.
Backpack may also refer to a 2001 अनोखा by एमिली barr
A आधुनिक backpack
स्विस फौज backpack ca. 1960
एकीकृत तुमको फ़्रेम.
A backpack ( also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, pack ) is, in its simplest रूप, a cloth बोरी carried on एक 's वापस और secured साथ दो straps that go over the shoulders, but there can be exceptions.
Lightweight types of backpacks हैं sometimes worn on तभी एक कंधे strap.
Backpacks हैं प्रायः पसन्दीदा to हैंडबैग लिये carrying भारी loads or carrying कोई sort of उपकरण, because of the limited capacity to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 पाउंड ), प्रायः offload the largest भाग ( up to परिचय 90 % ) of उनके वज़न onto padded हिप बेल्ट, leaving the कंधे straps mainly for stabilising the load.
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the hips are stronger than the shoulders, and also increases चपलता और संतुलन, चूंकि the लोड यात्राएँ nearer the wearer 's own center of mass.
In ancient times, the backpack थी प्रयुक्त as a अर्थात् to carry the शिकारी 's larger खेल और अन्य प्रकार of prey and as a way of easier transport for other materials.
In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters होता dismember उनके शिकार और वितरित the टुकड़े of the एनिमल around, प्रत्येक एक पैकिंग the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which they placed on to their backs.
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and स्किन ( depending on कया sorts of पशु यहूद in the क्षेत्रफल ) और sewn साथ by the आंतों of said animals, which were woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material.
मैक्सिको ( ; ; ), officially the संयुक्त मैक्सिकन राज्य ( ), is a federal constitutional republic in North America.
It is bordered on the उत्तर by the संयुक्त राज्य ; on the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर ; on the southeast by ग्वाटेमाला, Belize, and the Caribbean Sea ; and on the east by the Gulf of Mexico.
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ), Mexico is the पांचवां largest देश in the americas by कुल क्षेत्रफल और the 13th largest स्वतंत्र स्वदेश in the world.
With an estimated जनसांख्यिकी of over 113 लाख, it is the संसार 's eleventh सबसे populous देश और the most populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states और a संघीय ज़िला, the पूंजी city.
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced civilizations ऐसे as the olmec, the toltec, the teotihuacan, the zapotec, the माया और the एज़टेक पहले पहला सम्पर्क साथ europeans.
In 1521, Spain conquered and colonized the territory इससे इसके आधार in méxico-tenochtitlan, जिससे थी administered as the viceroyalty of New Spain.
This territory होता आखिरकार become मैक्सिको following मान्यता of the colony 's independence in 1821.
The post-independence period was characterized by economic अस्थिरता, the mexican-american युद्ध और territorial cession to the संयुक्त राज्य, a सिविल war, two empires and a domestic dictatorship.
the latter led to the मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति in 1910, जिससे culminated साथ the promulgation of the 1917 संविधान and the emergence of the country 's current political system.
Elections held in July 2000 चिह्नित the पहला समय कि an विपक्ष पार्टी जीती the प्रेसिडेंसी इससे the संस्थागत Revolutionary Party.
चूंकि 2006 the देश रै महरूम in the midst of a ड्रग युद्ध which has caused 60,000 deaths.
Mexico has one of the संसार 's largest economies, और is माना both a regional power and middle power.
In addition, Mexico was the first Latin American member of the संगठन लिये आर्थिक co-operation और विकास oecd ( चूंकि 1994 ), और माना an upper-middle आय देश by the संसार Bank.
Mexico is माना a newly industrialized देश and an emerging power.
It has the fourteenth largest नाममात्र जीडीपी और the eleventh largest जीडीपी by purchasing power parity.
The economy is strongly linked to those of इसके उत्तर अमरीकी फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध ( nafta ) साझेदार, विशेषकर the United States of America.
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by क्रमांक of युनेस्को संसार विरासत साइट साथ 31, और in 2007 थी the दसवाँ सबसे visited देश in the संसार साथ 21.4 million international arrivals per year.
Babe Ruth holds the एमएलबी करियर slugging प्रतिशत record (.690 ).
In baseball statistics, slugging प्रतिशत ( abbreviated slg ) is a लोकप्रिय माप of the power of a hitter.
It is calculated as कुल bases विभाजित by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats for a given player, और 1b, 2b, 3b, और hr हैं the क्रमांक of singles, युगल, तिगुना, और घर रनों, क्रमशः.
Walks are specifically excluded इससे इस गणना.
For example, in 1920, बेब रुथ निभाई उसके पहला ऋतु लिये the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़.
In 458 at bats, Ruth had 172 हिट्स, comprising 73 singles, 36 युगल, 9 तिगुना, और 54 घर रनों, जिससे brings the कुल आधार गिनती to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His total number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his कुल at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, उसके slugging percentage for the season.
The अगला साल he slugged.846, और ये रिकॉर्ड गई अखंड जबतक 2001, जब बैरी bonds हासिल 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, unmatched since.
is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square ( now Square Enix ) लिये the सुपर निन्टेंडो entertainment System in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii, a freelance पंक्तियां और निर्माता of एनिक्स 's लोकप्रिय ड्रैगन क्वेस्ट श्रेणी ; और अकिरा toriyama, a freelance manga कलाकार famed लिये उसके कार्य साथ ड्रैगन क्वेस्ट और ड्रैगन बॉल.
Kazuhiko Aoki उत्पादित the खेल, masato काटो लिखा सबसे of the प्लाट, जबकि composer yasunori mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu.
The game 's story follows a group of adventurers जो सफर through समय to prevent a वैश्विक प्रलय.
Square re-released a ported version by tose in जापानी लिये सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन in 1999, बाद repackaged साथ a फाइनल काल्पनिक iv बंदरगाहों as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market.
A slightly enhanced Chrono ट्रिगर थी released लिये the निन्टेंडो ds on नवम्बर 25, 2008, in उत्तर अमेरिका और जापानी, और गई on बिक्री in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on February 3, 2009 and in Europe on February 6, 2009.
The game was never released in pal territories पहले the निन्टेंडो DS version.
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon रिलीज और is माना आज to be एक of the महानतम वीडियो खेल of सब time.
Nintendo Power magazine वर्णित पहलुओं of chrono ट्रिगर as क्रांतिकारी, सहित इसके अनेक endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character development, unique battle system, and detailed graphics.
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling game of 1995, and the game 's SNES और प्लेस्टेशन iterations have shipped 2.65 लाख नक़ल as of कूच 2003.
The version for the निन्टेंडो ds बेची 790,000 नक़ल as of March 2009.
Chrono Trigger was also ported to मोबाईल फोन, आभासी कंसोल, the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल ( तभी in the यूएसए ), आईओएस डिवाइस, और एंड्रॉइड devices.
बकरी चीज
Goat चीज, or chèvre ( इससे the फ्रेंच शब्द लिये goat ), is cheese made out of the milk of goats.
Hyperthermia is elevated देह तापमान due to विफल thermoregulation कि occurs जब a देह produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates.
Extreme temperature elevation तब becomes a चिकित्सा आपात requiring तात्कालिक उपचार to prevent disability or death.
The most common causes शामिल ऊष्मा स्ट्रोक और प्रतिकूल प्रतिक्रियाएँ to drugs.
The former is an acute temperature उन्नयन caused by एक्सपोज़र to excessive ऊष्मा, or संयोजन of ऊष्मा और आर्द्रता, कि overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of अनेक दवाएँ, विशेषकर those कि affect the सेंट्रल nervous system.
Malignant अतिताप is a विरल complication of कुछ प्रकार of general anesthesia.
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be प्रयुक्त in the उपचार of कुछ kinds of कर्कट और अन्य शर्तें, सबसे commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy.
अतिताप differs इससे ज्वर in कि the देह 's तापमान set point remains unchanged.
The opposite is hypothermia, which occurs जब the तापमान बूंदें नीचे कि जरूरी to maintain सामान्य metabolism.
बेलीज़, is a देश स्तिथ on the northeastern coast of Central America.
It is the only country in the क्षेत्रफल जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is the आधिकारिक भाषा, हालांकि kriol and Spanish are more commonly spoken.
Belize is bordered on the north by मैक्सिको, to the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by ग्वाटेमाला और to the ईस्ट by the caribbean Sea.
Its मेनलैंड is परिचय long और wide.
With of land and a जनसांख्यिकी of तभी 312,698 निवासियों ( 2010 जनसांख्यिकी ), बेलीज़ possesses the lowest population density in Central America.
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the दूसरी उच्चतम in the प्रदेश और एक of the उच्चतम in the western hemisphere.
Belize 's abundance of स्थलीय और समुद्री प्रजाति, और इसके विविधता of ecosystems दे it a कुंजी प्लेस भीतर the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
Belize has a विविध समाज, comprising अनेक संस्कृतियों और भाषाएं.
It is the only nation in the region साथ a अंग्रेजों औपनिवेशिक विरासत, लकिन as a भाग of the पश्चिमी caribbean मण्डल, it भी साझा a आम विरासत with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean countries.
In general, Belize is considered to be a Central American and Caribbean स्वदेश साथ दमदार ties to दोनो the caribbean और Latin America.
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ), the Community of लैटिन अमरीकी और caribbean राज्य ( celac ), और सेंट्रल अमरीकी संयोजन System ( SICA ).
Belize is known for its September जश्न, और is the जन्मस्थान of चबाने गम and Punta Rock.
The `` बेट्सी रॉस '' flag
A `` बेट्सी रॉस '' ध्वज उड़ती बाहर सैन फ्रांसिस्को City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य, popularly attributed to बेट्सी रॉस, using the common motifs of alternating red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
the ध्वज थी designed दौरान the अमरीकी क्रान्ति and features 13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive feature of the रॉस ध्वज is the व्यवस्था of the stars in a circle.
हालांकि the बेट्सी रॉस स्टोरी is स्वीकृत by सबसे अमेरिकी, कुछ ध्वज इतिहासकारों और revisionists do not accept the Betsy Ross design as the first American flag.
According to the traditional account, the original flag was बना in जून 1776, जब a छोटी committee—including जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, रॉबर्ट मॉरिस और सापेक्ष जार्ज रॉस —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag.
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the ध्वज, altering the कमेटी 's डिज़ाइन by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars.
While the बेट्सी रॉस लेजेंड is questionable, the ध्वज डिज़ाइन is ज्ञात to have महरूम in उपयोग by 1777 ; Alfred B. Street described it at the surrender of General Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states.
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags ज्ञात to मौजूद ; जबकि it is नहीं the oldest surviving ध्वज centuries in cloth रूप, इसके likeness appears on पुरानी शारीरिक relics, namely, the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale.
They depict the circular star arrangement being flown from ship masts और अनेक अन्य स्थान, और यूँ provide the पहला ज्ञात ऐतिहासिक दस्तावेज़ीकरण of the ध्वज 's appearance.
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans अफेयर्स उपयोग the बेट्सी रॉस ध्वज to represent सेवा to सब दिग्गजों इससे the अमरीकी क्रान्ति to the उपस्थित day.
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in वॉशिंगटन क्रासिंग the डेलावेयर ) और films, ऐसे as the 1960 संस्करण of Pollyanna.
The flag continues to be एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय प्रतीकों of the American Revolution.
A purr is a ध्वनि बना by सब प्रजाति of felids और is a भाग of बिल्ली संचार.
It varies between cats ( for example by loudness and tone ), and from प्रजाति to प्रजाति, लकिन can be characterized as a tonal buzzing.
The term `` purring '' has been used liberally in साहित्य, और it रै महरूम claimed कि viverrids ( सीविट, नेवला, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
Other animals कि have महरूम कहा to purr हैं खरगोश, squirrels, guinea pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, elephants, raccoons and gorillas while eating.
However, using a सख्त परिभाषा of purring कि निरन्तर ध्वनि उत्पादन जरूर वैकल्पिक between pulmonic egressive और ingressive airstream ( और प्रायः go on लिये मिनट्स ), पीटर्स ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive review of the scientific literature, reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets, Genetta tigrina, and most likely also Genetta genetta, had been documented to purr.
the platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania.
Together साथ the चार प्रजाति of एकिडना, it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of इसके परिवार ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a क्रमांक of सम्बन्धित प्रजाति have महरूम found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying, बतख -billed, बीवर -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे पहला encountered it, साथ some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few विषैला स्तनधारियों, the पुरूष platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus मेक it an महत्वपूर्ण विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the एनिमल emblem of the राज्य of नई South Wales.
Until the early 20th century, it थी hunted लिये इसके फर, लकिन it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have था तभी सीमित कामयाबी और the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
St. Elizabeth is a गाँव in मिलर काउंटी, मिसौरी, संयुक्त States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 336 at the 2010 census.
Wilton is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in sacramento काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States.
It is भाग of the sacramento – arden-arcade – roseville महानगर Statistical Area.
The population was 5,363 at the 2010 census, up from 4,551 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
In human-computer बातचीत, काटें और paste और नक़ल और paste हैं सम्बन्धित कमांड कि प्रस्ताव a user-interface बातचीत technique for transferring text, data, files or objects from a source to a destination.
Most ubiquitously, उपयोक्ता आवश्यकता the क्षमता to cut and paste sections of plain text.
The cut command removes the चयनित आंकड़ा इससे इसके असली स्थिति, जबकि the नक़ल कमांड creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले the चयनित आंकड़ा is लगाई in a clipboard.
The data in the clipboard is बाद inserted in the स्थिति जहाँ the paste command is issued.
The command names are an interface metaphor based on the शारीरिक कार्यविधि प्रयुक्त in पाण्डुलिपि संपादन to create a page layout.
This interaction तकनीक रै बंद एसोसिएशन साथ सम्बन्धित तकनीकों in आलेखीय उपयोक्ता अंतरफलक कि उपयोग इंगित डिवाइस such as a computer mouse ( by drag and drop, for example ).
Economic order मात्रा is the अनुक्रम मात्रा कि minimizes कुल inventory पकड़कर costs and ordering costs.
it is एक of the oldest शास्त्रीय production scheduling models.
The framework used to determine इस अनुक्रम मात्रा is भी ज्ञात as barabas eoq Model or Barabas Formula.
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913, but R. H. Wilson, a consultant जो लागू it extensively, is दिए क्रेडिट लिये उसके in-depth analysis.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his आद्याक्षर srv, vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding सदस्य और नेता of Double Trouble.
साथ साथ वादक क्रिस layton और bassist टॉमी शैनन, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and दोगुना ट्रबल consistently बेची आउट कॉन्सर्ट जबकि उनके एल्बम अक्सर went gold.
He was born and उठाया in डलास, टेक्सास, और लिये a छोटी काल of समय जिया in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at आयु सात और formed अनेक bands कि occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped आउट of ऊँची स्कूल और स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical करियर, joining समूह ऐसे as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band कि आखिरकार विकसित into दोगुना ट्रबल और regularly performed around ऑस्टिन.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, catching the ध्यान of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to खेल on उसके आगामी स्टुडियो एल्बम let 's नृत्य, जबकि browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to एपिक रिकॉर्ड by दिग्गज रिकार्ड निर्माता जॉन हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम, टेक्सास बाढ़ in जून of कि year.
After successful touring, the group released the albums, Could n't Stand the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of जिससे प्रदर्शित नई keyboardist रीज़ Wynans.
Although his career had progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया to दे up a कोका और दारू आदत और लौटे to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released और अर्जित उन्हें a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन ब्लूज़ Performance.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following a performance in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र स्टाइल थी निकला इससे a किस्में of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians including अल्बर्ट किंग, फ्रेडी किंग, ओटिस फटाफट, और muddy waters, और चट्टान guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ और pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition लिये उसके गिटार playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on रोलिंग पत्थरों सूची of `` 100 महानतम Guitarists '' in 2011.
He was मरणोपरांत inducted into the ब्लूज़ हॉल of कीर्ति in 2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be एक of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये इससे the state of Texas.
The Las Vegas Strip World of coca-cola संग्रहालय in 2003
Coca-Cola is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय बेची in स्टोर्स, रेस्तरां, और वेंडिंग machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola कम्पनी in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler, जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक to इसके दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th सदी.
The company produces concentrate, जिससे is तब बेची to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers तब बेचें, वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to खुदरा stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include coca-cola उद्यमों, जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख restaurants and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी रै, on अवसर, introduced अन्य कोला पेय under the Coke brand name.
The most आम of ये is आहार कोक, साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola, आहार कोक caffeine-free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola थी the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान brand.
Barry Louis larkin ( born अप्रैल 28, 1964 ) is a रिटायर्ड प्रमुख लीग Baseball player.
Larkin played shortstop लिये the सिनसिनाटी लाल इससे 1986 to 2004 और was one of the pivotal players on the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team.
Larkin was निर्वाचित to the नेशनल बेसबॉल हॉल of कीर्ति in जनवरी 2012 and was inducted on July 22.
Larkin is considered one of the top players of his era, जीतना नौ चांदी slugger पुरस्कार और तीन सुनहरा Glove awards.
He was selected to the Major League All-Star Game बारह टाइम्स, और थी निर्वाचित the 1995 नेशनल लीग सबसे मूल्यवान Player.
brasília ( ) is the संघीय पूंजी of ब्राज़ील और the सीट of government of the Federal District.
Administratively, the city is located in the Federal ज़िला जिससे is in the central-west Region.
physically, it is स्तिथ in the Brazilian Highlands.
It has a जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the महानगर क्षेत्रफल ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil.
However, as a महानगर क्षेत्रफल, it बाँधने निम्नतर at छठे in population.
Brasília is the largest city in the संसार कि किया नहीं मौजूद at the शुरूआत of the 20th century.
Brasília has the पांचवां largest जीडीपी among लैटिन अमरीकी शहरों और the third in Brazil.
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( बराबर to लगभग $ 30,900 us डॉलर or €23,000 euros ), the नगर 's प्रति capita आय is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities.
As the national capital, brasília is the सीट of सब तीन शाखाओं of the संघीय सरकारी of Brazil.
The city भी होस्ट the मुख्यालय of अनेक ब्राज़ीलियाई companies.
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas, as खूब as भवन the नगर around विशाल avenues और dividing it into सेक्टर, have sparked a बहस और प्रतिबिंब on जीवन in बिग शहरों in the 20th century.
The city 's design divides it into गिने ब्लॉक as खूब as सेक्टर लिये निर्दिष्ट क्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the होटल सेक्टर, the बैंकिंग Sector or the Embassy Sector.
brasília होस्ट 124 विदेशी embassies.
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner, Oscar niemeyer as the प्रिंसिपल वास्तु और रॉबर्टो burle मार्क्स as the लैंडस्केप पंक्तियां.
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's संसार hertitage सूची due to इसके वास्तुकला.
On April 22, 1960, it formally became ब्राज़ील 's नेशनल capital.
Viewed from above, the main portion of the नगर resembles an वायुयान or a तितली.
The city is commonly referred to as पूंजी संघीय, or simply BSB.
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those नहीं born in the city but who migrated there after it was established ).
In लोकल उपयोग, the शब्द `` brasília '' प्रायः refers तभी to the पहला प्रशासनिक प्रदेश ( ra i ) भीतर the संघीय ज़िला ( Distrito Federal ), where the most important government buildings are located.
Brasília has a अद्वितीय औकात in ब्राज़ील, as it is an प्रशासनिक प्रभाग बल्कि than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil.
Nationally, the term is almost always used synonymously साथ the संघीय ज़िला, जिससे constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit, analogous to a state.
अनेक `` उपग्रह शहरों '' मौजूद जिससे हैं भी part of the Federal District.
Brasília अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the प्रमुख विमानक्षेत्र in brasília, connecting the पूंजी to सब प्रमुख ब्राज़ीलियाई शहरों and many international destinations.
It is the तीसरा सबसे महत्वपूर्ण विमानक्षेत्र in ब्राज़ील, in शर्तें of passengers and aircraft movements.
Personifications of Germany, France, Russia, Austria-Hungary, and the संयुक्त किंगडम attempting to रखना the ढक्कन on the simmering cauldron of imperialist और राष्ट्रवादी तनाव in the balkans to prevent a सामान्य यूरोपीय war.
वे यहूद कामयाब in 1912 और 1913 लकिन किया नहीं सफल in in 1914.
The causes of World War I, which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and समाप्त in 1918, शामिल अनेक कारकों, ऐसे as the विरोध और दुश्मनी of the चार दशकों leading up to the war.
Militarism, alliances, साम्राज्यवाद, और राष्ट्रवाद निभाई प्रमुख भूमिकाएँ in the conflict as well.
The immediate origins of the war, however, lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals दौरान the संकट of 1914, casus belli लिये जिससे थी the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड ( the archduke of ऑस्ट्रिया हंगेरियाई ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip, an irredentist Serb.
The crisis आए बाद a long और मुश्किल श्रेणी of राजनयिक clashes between the ग्रेट शक्तियां ( इटली, फ़्रांस, जर्मनी, the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, the Austria-Hungarian Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high.
In turn these राजनयिक clashes can be traced to परिवर्तन in the संतुलन of power in Europe since 1867.
The अधिक तात्कालिक कारण लिये the युद्ध थी तनाव over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed साथ सर्बिया और रूस लिये territory और influence in the प्रदेश और वे खींचा the बाकी of the ग्रेट शक्तियां into the विरोध through their various alliances and treaties.
Although the chain of events unleashed by the हत्या triggered the युद्ध, the युद्ध 's origins go deeper, involving नेशनल राजनीती, संस्कृतियों, अर्थशास्त्र, और a जटिल वेब of alliances और counterbalances कि had developed between the various European powers since 1870.
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe, unresolved territorial विवादों, an intricate प्रणाली of alliances, the आभास विश्लेषण of the संतुलन of शक्ति in यूरोपीय, convoluted और fragmented शासन, the बाहें दौड़ of the पिछला दशकों, पिछला सैन्य नियोजन, imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth, power and prestige, and economic and military rivalry in industry and trade – e.g., the Pig War between Austria and Serbia.
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the German belief that the संयुक्त किंगडम होता remain न्यूट्रल ) और देरी और misunderstandings in राजनयिक संचार.
The various categories of explanation for World War I correspond to अलग इतिहासकारों ' overall methods.
Most इतिहासकारों और लोकप्रिय टीकाकारों शामिल कल्याणकारी इससे अधिक than एक श्रेणी of explanation to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war.
The deepest भेद among ये खाते is between कहानियां कि देखिए it as the अपरिहार्य और predictable निष्कर्ष of निश्चित factors, and those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake.
In attributing causes for the war, historians and academics had to deal with an unprecedented बाढ़ of memoirs और आधिकारिक दस्तावेज़, released as प्रत्येक देश शामिल आजमाया to avoid दोष लिये starting the युद्ध.
Early releases of information by governments, विशेषकर those released लिये उपयोग by the `` आयोग on the जिम्मेदारी of the लेखक of the युद्ध '' यहूद दिखाया to be अधूरी और पक्षपातपूर्ण.
In addition कुछ दस्तावेज़, विशेषकर राजनयिक केबल between रूस और फ़्रांस, यहूद मिला to have been doctored.
Even in later decades however, जब much अधिक सूचना था महरूम released, इतिहासकारों इससे the वही संस्कृति have महरूम shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
Johnson 's new चार्ट of नेशनल प्रतीक, प्रकाशित c. 1868.
The large flags shown in the किनारे हैं the 37-star ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य ( flown 1867-1877 ), the royal मानक of the संयुक्त किंगडम, the रूसी Imperial Standard, and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle.
Various अन्य ध्वज flown by जहाजों are shown.
The ध्वज of क्यूबा is labelled `` क्यूबन ( so पुकारा ) ``.
The Chinese dragon on the Flag of China was drawn mistakenly as a पश्चिमी ड्रैगन.
A national flag is a ध्वज कि symbolizes a देश.
The flag is flown by the सरकारी, लकिन प्रायः can भी be flown by citizens of the country.
Both public and private buildings such as स्कूलों और courthouses may मक्खी the नेशनल flag.
In some countries, the नेशनल ध्वज हैं तभी flown इससे non-military buildings on certain flag days.
There are तीन पृथक प्रकार of नेशनल ध्वज लिये उपयोग on जमीन, और तीन लिये उपयोग at समुद्र, हालांकि many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ( acw ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध.
Eight remaining स्लेव राज्य जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared लिये युद्ध.
The confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the southern economy.
The Eastern थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप.
lincoln जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी नदी.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और खाना supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Norrie disease is a genetic विकार कि primarily affects the नजर और लगभग सदा leads to blindness.
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms, कुछ मरीजों suffer इससे a प्रगतिशील सुनना घाटा starting ज़्यादातर in उनके 2nd दशक of life, while another portion may be mentally challenged.
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear श्वेत जब लाइट is shone on उन्हें ), साथ साथ अन्य developmental मुद्दे in the नजर, ऐसे as shrinking of the ग्लोब और the बर्बाद away of the iris.
Around 30–50 % of them will also have developmental delay/ mental retardation, psychotic-like सुविधाएँ, incoordination of आंदोलनों or behavioral abnormalities.
Most patients are born with normal hearing ; however, the onset of सुनना घाटा is बहुत आम in जल्दी किशोरावस्था.
परिचय 15 % of the मरीजों हैं अनुमानित to develop all the features of the disease.
The disease affects almost only male infants at birth or soon after जनम, क्युकी the बीमारी is inherited x-linked recessive.
Only in very rare cases, महिलाओं have महरूम diagnosed साथ norrie बीमारी as खूब.
The exact incidence number is अनजान ; तभी a few सौ मामले have महरूम reported so दूर.
It is a very rare विकार कि is नहीं संबद्ध साथ कोई विशिष्ट ethnic or racial groups.
a अनुबंध is an अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or अधिक पार्टियों, प्रत्येक of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` प्रस्ताव '' और `` स्वीकृति '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता who exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be किया in लिखने, हालांकि अनुबंध may be बना entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of मुआवजे of धन or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies पुरस्कार the पार्टी at घाटा the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The पार्टियों may be प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic persons.
A अनुबंध is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking that something will or will not occur.
The word promise can be प्रयुक्त as a विधिक पर्याय लिये अनुबंध, हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a वादा may नहीं have the पूरा standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, सहित मतभेद in आम विधि compared to सिविल विधि, the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि, विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in आम विधि देशों, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल ) स्तर, और an अतिरिक्त 26 अधिनियमों at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सम्मेलन on अनुबंध लिये the International Sale of Goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side वेब अनुप्रयोग फ्रेमवर्क designed लिये वेब विकास to उपज डायनेमिक Web pages.
It was developed by Microsoft to allow प्रोग्रामर्स to निर्माण डायनेमिक वेब साइट, वेब अनुप्रयोग और वेब सेवाएं.
it थी पहला released in जनवरी 2002 साथ संस्करण 1.0 of the.neT फ्रेमवर्क, और is the successor to Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology.
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language Runtime ( CLR ), allowing प्रोग्रामर्स to लिखें asp.net कोड using कोई समर्थित.NET language.
The ASP.NET SOAP extension framework allows asp.net components to प्रक्रम साबुन संदेश.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or lsd-25, भी ज्ञात as lysergide ( इन ) और colloquially as एसिड, is a semisynthetic साइकेडेलिक ड्रग of the ergoline परिवार, खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव जिससे can शामिल altered सोच प्रक्रियाओं, closed and open eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences, as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture.
It is used mainly as an entheogen, recreational ड्रग, और as an एजेंट in साइकेडेलिक therapy.
LSD is non-addictive, is not known to cause दिमाग क्षति, और रै अत्यधिक कम toxicity relative to dose.
However, प्रतिकूल मनोरोग प्रतिक्रियाएँ ऐसे as चिंता, paranoia, and delusions are possible.
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 इससे ergotamine, a रासायनिक निकला by आर्थर stoll इससे ergot, a अनाज कवक कि typically grows on rye.
The short form `` LSD '' comes from its early कोड नाम lsd-25, जिससे is an संक्षिप्त लिये the जर्मनी `` lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
LSD is sensitive to oxygen, पराबैंगनी लाइट, और क्लोराइड, विशेषकर in समाधान, हालांकि इसके potency may पिछला लिये सालो if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature.
In pure रूप it is a colorless, गंधहीन, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically delivered orally, प्रायः on a substrate ऐसे as absorbent blotter पेपर, a शुगर घन, or gelatin.
In इसके द्रव रूप, it can भी be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is very potent, with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) होने the दहलीज खुराक.
नई प्रयोग साथ एलएसडी प्रारंभ in 2009 for the first time in 40 years.
introduced by sandoz laboratories, साथ trade-name delysid, as a ड्रग साथ विभिन्न मनोरोग उपयोग in 1947, एलएसडी जल्दी became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central प्रज्ञा एजेंसी ( सीआईए ) विचार the ड्रग might be लागू to दिमाग कंट्रोल और रासायनिक warfare ; the एजेंसी 's MKULTRA research program propagated the drug among young servicemen and students.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the Western world दौरान the 1960s led to a राजनैतिक firestorm कि resulted in इसके निषेध.
Currently, a number of organizations—including the beckley न्यास, मानचित्र, heffter शोध संस्थान और the अल्बर्ट hofmann foundation—exist to fund, encourage and coordinate research into the medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics.
The United States Navy 's समुद्र, एयर, जमीन टीमों, commonly ज्ञात as the नेवी seals, हैं the u.S. नेवी 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन फ़ोर्स और a भाग of the नवल खास Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command.
`` SEAL '' is सदा capitalized in सन्दर्भ to सदस्यों of the नवल खास Warfare community.
The acronym is derived from their capacity to operate at समुद्र, in the एयर, और on जमीन.
SEALs हैं पुरूष सदस्यों of the संयुक्त States Navy.
An exchange program with the Coast गार्ड, जिससे ग्रैजुएट तीन coast guardsmen as seals, थी suspended in 2011.
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह ( sog ) रंगरूटों operators from the SEAL Teams.
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations go वापस to the famed macv-sog दौरान the वियतनाम युद्ध.
This cooperation still exists today and is seen in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, और in the ढूंढना और हत्या of ओसामा बिन लादेन in पाकिस्तानी.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, आधारित on un 2010 projections ( रेड, orange, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual अंकित जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in blue.
According to the highest अनुमान, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना इंसानो on Earth.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the world जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on कूच 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि, it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
The world जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The उच्चतम दरों of विकास – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख, और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास, stagnation, or भी overall मनाही in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world जनसांख्यिकी विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ, और उर्जा resources.
Memphis is a city in the southwestern कोने of the u.S. राज्य of टेनेसी, और the काउंटी seat of Shelby County.
The city is स्तिथ on the 4th chickasaw bluff, दक्षिण of the संगम of the भेड़िया and Mississippi rivers.
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest नगर in the राज्य of टेनेसी, the largest नगर on the मिसिसिपी नदी, the तीसरा largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, और the 20th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The greater Memphis metropolitan area, सहित सटा काउंटी in मिसिसिपी और अरकंसास, था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,316,100.
This makes Memphis the second largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in टेनेसी, surpassed तभी by महानगर नैशविले, which has overtaken Memphis in recent years.
Memphis is the youngest of टेनेसी 's प्रमुख शहरों.
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a memphian, और the मेम्फिस प्रदेश is ज्ञात, विशेषकर to मीडिया आउटलेट, as `` मेम्फिस & The Mid-South ``.
the cattenom नाभिकीय Power Plant in France.
France produces around तीन quarters of इसके विद्युत by nuclear power.
The grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय शक्ति Plant in Germany.
Chancellor एंजेला मार्केल 's गठबन्धन घोषित on may 30, 2011, कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति स्टेशन होगा be shut bas by 2022, in a नीति reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
Currently, 68 रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत निर्माण in 15 countries.
नाभिकीय शक्ति स्टेशन operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति, it थी reported कि an औसत of परिचय 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational प्रति साल, हालांकि according to the संसार Nuclear Association, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, जर्मनी और स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं phasing-out नाभिकीय शक्ति.
As of June 2011, countries ऐसे as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ऑस्ट्रिया, डेनमार्क, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, इटली, लातवियाई, liechtenstein, ध्वज, मलेशिया, माल्टा, नई जीलैंड, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
This is a table of मांसपेशियां of the इंसान anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां, मिला on दोनो पहलू, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as अलग भाग of a सिंगल मांसपेशी or as several muscles.
उदाहरण दायरा from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the मानक anatomical position.
In other positions, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
A reenactment of a battle at Fort फोस्टर, 1837 ( at hillsborough नदी State Park )
The Seminole Wars, also known as the Florida Wars, were three conflicts in Florida between the seminole — the सामूहिक नाम दिए to the amalgamation of विभिन्न समूह of देशी अमेरिकी और ब्लैक लोगों जो settled in फ्लोरिडा in the early 18th century — and the United States Army.
The First Seminole War was from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ), the Second Seminole War from 1835 to 1842, और the तीसरा seminole युद्ध इससे 1855 to 1858.
The पहला विरोध साथ the seminoles arose आउट of तनाव relating to सामान्य एंड्रयू जैक्सन 's आक्रमण और विनाश of नीग्रो फोर्ट in Florida in 1816.
Jackson भी attacked the स्पेनी at pensacola.
Ultimately, the Spanish क्राउन ceded the उपनिवेश to संयुक्त राज्य rule.
Orono is a town in penobscot काउंटी, maine, संयुक्त राज्य.
It was first settled in 1774 और नामित in सम्मान of Chief Joseph Orono of the Penobscot Nation.
It is घर to the विश्वविद्यालयों of Maine.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 10,362 at the 2010 census.
View of the पिरामिड
Luxor Las Vegas is a होटल और कसीनो on the लास वेगास स्ट्रिप in Paradise, Nevada.
The 30-story hotel, owned and operated by MGM रिसॉर्ट अंतरराष्ट्रीय, रै a कसीनो साथ over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games.
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it has a new, highly आधुनिकीकरण, और समकालीन डिज़ाइन और contains a कुल of 4,400 कक्ष, सहित 442 suites, अस्तर the आंतरिक दीवारें of a पिरामिड स्टाइल मीनार और भीतर twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions.
The होटल is नामित बाद the नगर of लक्सर ( ancient Thebes ) in Egypt.
Luxor is the दूसरी largest होटल in लास वेगास ( the largest होने the mgm ग्रैंड ) और the eighth largest in the world.
As of 2010, the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the ग्रीन कुंजी eco-rating कार्यक्रम, जिससे evaluates `` चिरस्थायी '' hotel operations.
A pilot experiment, also called a pilot study, is a small scale preliminary study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, time, cost, adverse कार्यक्रम, और प्रभाव आकार ( सांख्यिकीय variability ) in an attempt to भविष्यवाणी an उचित नमूना आकार और improve upon the पढ़ाई डिज़ाइन prior to प्रदर्शन of a full-scale शोध project.
Pilot studies, therefore, may not be उचित लिये मामला अध्ययन.
The Los Angeles Fire Department ( LAFD ) is the agency कि provides आग सुरक्षा और आपात चिकित्सा सेवाएं लिये the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स.
It may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles City Fire Department to फर्क it इससे the लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी आग विभाग.
The acre is a ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the इम्पीरियल और u.S. प्रथागत systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – थोड़ा छोटी than an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, बर्मा और the संयुक्त किंगडम ( as of 2010, the एकड़ is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त किंगडम, हालांकि is स्टिल used in real estate descriptions ).
It is स्टिल प्रयुक्त, to कुछ extent, in Canada.
The international प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac, और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ आज is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre.
In the United राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the थोड़ा अलग us survey acre are in use.
The most आम उपयोग of the एकड़ is to माप tracts of जमीन.
One अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the Middle आयु, an एकड़ थी the राशि of जमीन कि could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a देशी अमरीकी लोगों और its language:
pawnee लोगों
pawnee भाषा
pawnee is भी the नाम of अनेक places in the United States:
pawnee, इलिनोइस
pawnee, कान्सास
Pawnee नगर, नेब्रास्का
pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee, टेक्सास
Pawnee नेशनल घासभूमि, कोलोराडो
pawnee township ( बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee County ( बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee may भी refer to:
Piper PA-25 pawnee, agricultural aircraft
Hiller vz-1 pawnee, प्रायोगिक वायुयान
Pawnee, Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional सेटिंग of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न कॉमेडी पार्क और Recreation.
broca 's और wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings use words to communicate विचार और जज्बात, और कैसा ऐसे संचार हैं processed and understood.
Thus it is how the brain creates और understands भाषा.
Most हाल theories consider कि इस प्रक्रम is carried out entirely by and inside the brain.
इस is माना एक of the सबसे characteristic abilities of the human species - perhaps the most characteristic.
However very छोटी is ज्ञात परिचय it और वहीँ is विशाल पैमाना for research on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury, whether बाह्य ( wounds, बुलेट ) or आतंरिक ( स्ट्रोक्स, tumors, अपक्षयी रोगों ).
Studies have shown that most of the language प्रसंस्करण कृत्यों हैं carried आउट in the दिमागी cortex.
The essential फलन of the cortical भाषा क्षेत्रों is symbolic representation.
Even though language exists in अलग फ़ॉर्म, सब of उन्हें हैं आधारित on symbolic representation.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car, designed और विकसित by the volkswagen समूह और manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport संस्करण of the veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन car in the world, with a top speed of.
The असली संस्करण रै a top speed of.
It was named Car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम शीर्ष Gear.
The standard veyron जीती शीर्ष गियर्स बेहतरीन car चलित सब साल पुरस्कार in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड खेल vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen, साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य होने conducted अंतर्गत the मार्गदर्शन of अभियान्त्रिकी मुख्य वुल्फगांग schreiber.
A number of special विसंगतियाँ have महरूम उत्पादित.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the veyron 16.4 configurator अनुप्रयोग on the marque 's आधिकारिक website.
DVD is an ऑप्टिकल डिस्क भंडार स्वरूप, invented और विकसित by फिलिप्स, सोनी, तोशिबा, और Panasonic in 1995.
DVDs offer higher storage capacity than कॉम्पैक्ट discs जबकि having the वही आयाम.
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding मशीने कि physically स्टैम्प आंकड़ा onto the dvd.
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM, क्युकी आंकड़ा can तभी be पढ़ा और नहीं लिखा nor erased.
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and dvd+r ) can be अंकित एकबार using a dvd रिकॉर्डर और तब फलन as a dvd-rom. rewritable dvds ( dvd-rw, dvd+rw, और dvd-ram ) can be अंकित और erased अनेक times.
dvds हैं प्रयुक्त in dvd-video उपभोक्ता डिजिटल वीडियो स्वरूप और in dvd-audio उपभोक्ता digital audio format, as well as for authoring AVCHD discs.
DVDs containing other प्रकार of सूचना may be referred to as dvd आंकड़ा discs.
What Chilli Wants is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता श्रेणी on vh1 अभिनीत chilli, one-third of the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC.
The show क्रॉनिकल्स chilli 's क्वेस्ट to ढूँढें प्रेम साथ the सहायता of tionna T. smalls, an लेखक and relationship coach.
The series premiered on अप्रैल 11, 2010, और रै since been renewed for a second season.
The second season premiered on संडे, जनवरी 2, 2011.
Peter Gene hernandez ( born अक्तूबर 8, 1985 ), ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम ब्रूनो Mars, is an American singer-songwriter and record producer.
Raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a family of संगीतकारों, मंगल began बनाना म्यूज़िक at a यंग आयु और performed in various musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
He graduated from ऊँची स्कूल और तब स्थानांतरित to लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, to pursue a musical career.
Mars produced songs for other कलाकारों, joining उत्पादन टोली the smeezingtons.
Mars had an unsuccessful stint साथ motown रिकॉर्ड, लकिन तब हस्ताक्षरित साथ अटलांटिक in 2009.
He became पहचाना as a सोलो कलाकार बाद lending उसके vocals और co-writing the hooks लिये the गीतों `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B, and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy.
He also co-wrote the हिट्स `` सही गोलाकार `` by flo rida featuring ke $ ha, and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan.
In अक्तूबर 2010, he released his debut album, Doo-Wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the विश्वव्यापी number-one singles `` बस the रास्ता तुम Are `` and `` Grenade ``, the album peaked at number three on the Billboard 200.
मंगल थी मनोनीत लिये सात grammys at the 53rd ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, जीतना बेहतरीन पुरूष पॉप गायन Performance for `` Just the Way You Are ''.
His दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम, अपरंपरागत ज्यूकबॉक्स, was released on December 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a चौड़ी किस्में of शैलियाँ और प्रभाव, और contains तत्व of many musical genres.
He has worked with an assortment of कलाकारों इससे विभिन्न genres.
as a चाइल्ड, he थी अत्यधिक बहकावे by कलाकारों ऐसे as छोटी रिचर्ड, Elvis Presley and Michael Jackson and would often impersonate these artists from a young age.
Mars also incorporates रेगी - और motown -inspired ध्वनि into उसके कार्य.
विश्वव्यापी, मंगल became the best-selling digital artist in 2011.
He had three singles in the शीर्ष टेन, सहित पहला प्लेस साथ `` बस the रास्ता तुम हैं '', जिससे sold 12.5 million copies.
Mars won Best International Male सोलो कलाकार at the 2012 ब्रिट पुरस्कार.
Bruno Mars has sold 6 लाख एल्बम और 40 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी as a singer.
Althought as a song-writer, producer and singer उसके कुल सिंगल डाउनलोड बिक्री surpass 100 लाख worldwide.
Bust of Zeus, otricoli ( sala रोटोंडा, museo pio-clementino, Vatican ).
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient यूनानियों, concerning उनके देवताओं और नायक, the प्रकृति of the संसार, और the origins और significance of उनके अपना cult और ritual practices.
It was a भाग of the धर्म in प्राचीन यूनानियों और is part of religion in modern Greece and around the world, known as Hellenismos.
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of प्राचीन यूनानियों और इसके सभ्यता, और to लाभ समझना of the प्रकृति of myth-making itself.
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives, और implicitly in यूनानी representational कला, ऐसे as vase-paintings और votive उपहार.
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the जीवनदान और adventures of a चौड़ी किस्में of देवताओं, देवियाँ, नायक, heroines, और पौराणिक जीव.
These accounts initially यहूद disseminated in an oral-poetic परंपरा ; आज the यूनानी मिथकों are known primarily from Greek literature.
The oldest known Greek साहित्यिक स्त्रोत, होमर 's एपिक कविताएं इलियड और ओडिसी, फ़ोकस on कार्यक्रम surrounding the Trojan War.
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod, the theogony और the works और दिनों, contain खाते of the उत्पत्ति of the संसार, the उत्तराधिकार of दैवी rulers, the succession of human ages, the origin of human woes, and the origin of sacrificial practices.
Myths are also preserved in the homeric hymns, in fragments of एपिक कविताएं of the एपिक साईकिल, in lyric कविताएं, in the works of the tragedians of the पांचवां सदी bc, in कृतियाँ of विद्वानों और poets of the Hellenistic Age, and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias.
Archaeological findings provide a प्रिंसिपल सोर्स of विवरण परिचय यूनानी mythology, साथ देवताओं और नायक प्रदर्शित prominently in the सजावट of many artifacts.
Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict दृश्यों इससे the trojan साईकिल as खूब as the adventures of heracles.
In the succeeding archaic, शास्त्रीय, और hellenistic अवधि, homeric और विभिन्न अन्य पौराणिक दृश्यों appear, supplementing the existing literary evidence.
Greek mythology has था an extensive influence on the संस्कृति, कला, और साहित्य of पश्चिमी सभ्यता और remains part of Western heritage and language.
Poets and artists from ancient times to the present have निकला प्रेरणा इससे यूनानी mythology और have खोजा समकालीन significance and relevance in the themes.
Mouth & macneal in 1971
Mouth & macneal थी a पॉप duo इससे the नीदरलैंड्स.
They हैं बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उनके लाख selling recording of `` How Do You Do ``.
The Boise State Broncos football कार्यक्रम represents boise राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों in कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और compete in the फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference.
They are currently led by head कोच क्रिस petersen और खेल उनके घर खेल at bronco Stadium.
The फ़्रैंक ( चिह्न : fr. or sfr. ; जर्मनी : franken, फ्रेंच और romansh : फ़्रैंक, इतालवी : फ्रेंको ; कोड : chf ) is the currency and legal tender of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia.
Although not formally legal tender in the German exclave büsingen ( the एकमात्र विधिक करेंसी is the यूरोपियन ), it is in चौड़ी रोज़ उपयोग वहीँ.
The स्विस नेशनल बैंको मुद्दे banknotes और the संघीय mint Swissmint issues coins.
The Swiss franc is the तभी संस्करण of the फ़्रैंक स्टिल जारी in यूरोपीय.
The smaller denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a rappen ( rp. ) in जर्मनी, centime ( c. ) in फ्रेंच, centesimo ( ct. ) in इतालवी, और रैप ( rp. ) in romansh.
The ISO code of the currency used by banks और वित्तीय संस्थानों is chf, हालांकि `` fr. '' is प्रयुक्त by सबसे व्यवसायों and advertisers ; some use SFr. ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica.
Given the different भाषाएं प्रयुक्त in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, लैटिन is प्रयुक्त लिये language-neutral inscriptions on the coins.
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin, ( 16 अप्रैल 188925 दिसम्बर 1977 ) थी a अंग्रेजों कॉमिक कर्ता और फिल्मकार जो रोज़ to fame in the silent era.
Chaplin became a विश्वव्यापी प्रतीक through उसके स्क्रीन persona `` the ट्रैम्प `` और is माना one of the most important figures of the film industry.
His career spanned अधिक than 75 सालो, इससे a चाइल्ड in the विक्टोरियन era to बंद to his death at the age of 88, and encompassed both adulation and controversy.
Raised in London, चैपलिन 's बाल्यकाल थी पारिभाषित by गरीबी and hardship.
He was sent to a workhouse twice before the आयु of नौ ; उसके पिता थी अनुपस्थित, और उसके माँ थी वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी asylum.
चैपलिन began performing इससे a यंग आयु, touring म्यूज़िक halls and later working as a stage actor and comedian.
At 19 he was signed to the prestigious फ्रेड karno कम्पनी, जिससे took उसे to अमेरिका.
Chaplin was scouted by the film industry, and made उसके पहला दिखावे in 1914 साथ keystone studios.
He soon विकसित the ट्रैम्प persona और formed a विशाल fan base.
Chaplin directed his films इससे an जल्दी स्टेज, और जारी to hone उसके शिल्प as he स्थानांतरित to the Essanay, Mutual, and First National corporations.
By 1918, he थी एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध मेन in the world.
In 1919, Chaplin co-founded the वितरण कम्पनी संयुक्त कलाकारों, giving him complete control over his films.
His first feature-length picture was The Kid ( 1921 ), followed by A स्त्री of पेरिस ( 1923 ), the सुनहरा फटाफट ( 1925 ), and The Circus ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s, बजाय producing नगर लाइट्स ( 1931 ) और आधुनिक टाइम्स ( 1936 ) बगैर dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly राजनैतिक और उसके अगला फिल्मी, the ग्रेट तानाशाह ( 1940 ), satirised एडोल्फ Hitler.
the 1940s थी a दशक चिह्नित साथ विवाद लिये Chaplin, and his popularity declined rapidly.
He was accused of communist sympathies, जबकि उसके भागीदारी in a paternity सूट और विवाह to much younger women were considered scandalous.
An FBI investigation was खोली on चैपलिन, और he थी आखिरकार मजबूर to छोड़ the संयुक्त राज्य और settle in स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
He abandoned the Tramp for his बाद films, जिससे शामिल monsieur verdoux ( 1947 ), limelight ( 1952 ), a किंग in नई यॉर्क ( 1957 ), और a Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ).
Chaplin wrote, directed, produced, संपादित, scored, और स्ट्रक्चर in सबसे of उसके films.
He was a perfectionist, और उसके वित्तीय स्वतंत्रता meant he प्रायः खर्च सालो on the development and production of a picture.
His films are characterised by slapstick संयुक्त साथ pathos, और प्रायः विशेषता the ट्रैम्प struggling against adversity.
Many contain social and political themes, as खूब as autobiographical तत्व.
In 1972, as भाग of a नवीनीकृत सराहना लिये उसके कार्य, चैपलिन प्राप्त an मानद अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये `` the incalculable प्रभाव he has had in making motion pictures the art form of this century ''.
He continues to be held in high regard, with the सुनहरा फटाफट, नगर लाइट्स, आधुनिक टाइम्स, और the ग्रेट तानाशाह प्रायः क्रमित among the greatest films of all time.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( ppfa ), commonly shortened to नियोजित parenthood, is the u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित parenthood संघ ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit संगठन providing reproductive स्वास्थ्य और maternal and child health services.
The Planned parenthood कार्रवाई निधि, inc. ( ppaf ) is a सम्बन्धित संगठन जिससे lobbies लिये pro-choice विधान, व्यापक sex education, and access to affordable health care in the United States.
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. प्रदाता of reproductive स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं, सहित कर्कट स्क्रीनिंग, hiv स्क्रीनिंग और counseling, निरोधक, and abortion.
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's कुल सेवाएं और abortions खाता लिये 3 % ; ppfa conducts roughly 300,000 abortions प्रत्येक साल, among 3 लाख लोगों परोसा.
The संगठन रै इसके जड़ें in ब्रुकलीन, नई यॉर्क, जहाँ मार्गरेट Sanger opened the country 's first birth-control clinic.
Sanger founded the American Birth कंट्रोल लीग in 1921, जिससे in 1942 became भाग of the नियोजित parenthood Federation of America.
Since then, Planned parenthood रै grown to have over 820 क्लिनिक स्थितियाँ in the U.S., with a total budget of US $ 1 billion.
PPFA provides an array of services to over three लाख लोगों in the संयुक्त राज्य, और supports सेवाएं लिये over एक लाख क्लाइंट बाहर the संयुक्त राज्य.
पुरुषों rea is लैटिन लिये `` अपराधी mind ''.
In criminal law, it is viewed as one of the जरुरी तत्व of कुछ crimes.
The standard common law test of criminal liability is usually expressed in the Latin phrase, actus non facit reum nisi पुरुषों बैठना rea, जिससे अर्थात् `` the अधिनियम is नहीं culpable जबतक the दिमाग is अपराधी ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions with due process, there must be an actus reus, or `` guilty act, '' accompanied by कुछ स्तर of पुरुषों rea to constitute the अपराधों साथ जिससे the प्रतिवादी is चार्ज ( देखिए the तकनीकी आवश्यकता of concurrence ).
As a general rule, दण्ड देयता करता नहीं संलग्न to a व्यक्ति who acted with the absence of mental fault.
the एक्सेप्शन is सख्त liability crimes.
In civil law, it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective दिमागी तत्व to स्थापित देयता लिये उल्लंघन of contract or tort, for example.
However, if a अपकृत्य is intentionally वचनबद्ध or a अनुबंध is intentionally breached, ऐसे intent may बढ़ाएँ the पैमाना of देयता as well as the measure of damages payable to the plaintiff.
इसलिए, पुरुषों rea refers to the दिमागी element of the offence that accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the शर्तें पुरुषों rea और actus reus have महरूम replaced by alternative terminology.
In Australia, for example, the elements of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` दिमागी तत्व '' ( पुरुषों rea ) और `` शारीरिक तत्व '' or `` बाह्य तत्व '' ( actus reus ).
This शब्दावली थी अपनाया to बदलें the अस्पष्टता of the लैटिन शर्तें साथ सरल and accurate phrasing.
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885 ) was the 18th President of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1869–1877 ) following उसके अत्यधिक कामयाब भूमिका as a युद्ध सामान्य in the दूसरी half of the Civil War.
Under Grant, the Union Army defeated the Confederate सैन्य ; having effectively ended the युद्ध और secession साथ the आत्मसमर्पण of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's army at Appomattox.
As president he led the कट्टरपंथी republicans in उनके प्रयत्न to eliminate सब vestiges of Confederate nationalism and slavery.
परेशान over uncontrolled हिंसा in the दक्षिण और having desired to protect अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी नागरिकता, President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871.
Grant was the first President to establish Civil Service reform having निर्मित a two-year federally वित्तपोषित सिविल सेवा आयोग in 1871.
in शर्तें of विदेशी नीति, ग्रान्ट नाज़िल an `` अनपेक्षित क्षमता for deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest.
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense of corrupt appointees, and by अमेरिका 's पहला औद्योगिक आयु आर्थिक अवसाद ( पुकारा the `` दहशत of 1873 `` ) कि वर्चस्व उसके second term.
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 साथ reformers denouncing उसे, ग्रान्ट was easily reelected.
By 1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control of every राज्य in the दक्षिण और as he बाएँ the श्वेत हाउस in कूच 1877 उसके नीतियों यहूद होने undone.
A करियर सिपाही, he ग्रैजुएट इससे the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य अकादमी at वेस्ट Point and served in the Mexican–American War.
When the Civil War began in 1861, Grant trained संघ स्वयंसेवी regiments in इलिनोइस.
In 1862, as a general he fought a series of battles and थी प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य बाद forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a विशाल confederate फौज और gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee.
He then led संघ शक्तियां to विजय बाद आरंभिक setbacks in the बैटल of shiloh, earning a reputation as an aggressive commander.
In जुलाई 1863, बाद a long, जटिल अभियान, ग्रान्ट पराजित पाँच uncoordinated confederate armies ( capturing one of them ) and seized Vicksburg.
This famous victory gave the Union पूरा कंट्रोल of the मिसिसिपी नदी, विभाजित बंद the पश्चिमी confederacy, and opened the way for more Union triumphs.
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863, अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln बना उसे लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य और कमांडर of सब of the संघ सेना.
As commanding सामान्य of the फौज, ग्रान्ट confronted रॉबर्ट E. ली in a श्रेणी of बहुत खूनी लड़ाइयों in 1864 ज्ञात as the Overland Campaign that ended with the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg, outside the Confederate capital of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant समन्वित a श्रेणी of विनाशकारी अभियान शुभारम्भ by विलियम tecumseh शरमन, फिलिप Sheridan, and George Thomas.
Finally breaking through ली 's trenches, the संघ फौज captured Richmond in April 1865.
ली surrendered उसके depleted शक्तियां to ग्रान्ट at appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-Confederate इतिहासकारों attacked ग्रान्ट as a निष्ठुर कसाई जो जीती by brute फ़ोर्स, सबसे इतिहासकारों have hailed his military genius.
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President stabilized the nation बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और दौरान the turbulent पुनर्निर्माण period that followed.
As president, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing सिविल अधिकारों कानून और लड़ ku klux क्लान हिंसा.
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth amendment ; giving संवैधानिक सुरक्षा लिये african-american voting rights.
He used the army to build the Republican Party in the दक्षिण, आधारित on ब्लैक मतदाता, उत्तरी newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) और देशी श्वेत supporters ( `` Scalawags. '' )
As a result, African Americans यहूद represented in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस लिये the पहला समय in American history in 1870.
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having टूटा the deadlock on भारतीय appropriations in कॉंग्रेस, the सृष्टि of the फलक of भारतीय commissioners to मेक सुधार सुझाव, और उसके enlistment of quaker protestants who controlled mid western Indian agencies, that effectively curbed Congressional patronage.
Grant remained determined in keeping इंडियंस इससे होने exterminated इससे श्वेत settler अतिक्रमण or by the U.S. military.
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time ऊँची लिये उसके पिछला वीटो of the महंगाई विधेयक, the ड्योढ़ी of the resumption of specie अधिनियम, and Secretary Bristow 's successful raids that shut down the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by सचिव of राज्य हैमिल्टन मछली, implemented अंतरराष्ट्रीय मध्यस्थता, settled the अलबामा दावा साथ ब्रिटेन और avoided युद्ध साथ स्पेन over the Virginius Affair.
A jukebox is a partially स्वचालित music-playing यंत्र, प्रायः a coin-operated यंत्र, कि होगा खेल a patron 's selection from self-contained media.
The classic jukebox has buttons with letters and numbers on them कि, जब डाला in संयोजन, हैं प्रयुक्त to खेल a विशिष्ट चयन.
A ड्रग परीक्षण is a तकनीकी विश्लेषण of a biological नमूना – लिये उदाहरण मूत्र, बाल, रक्त, स्वेद, or मौखिक द्रव / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites.
Major uses of drug testing हैं to detect the उपस्थिति of प्रदर्शन बढ़ाना steroids in खेल or लिये drugs prohibited by laws, such as cannabis, cocaine and heroin.
A `` 10-panel urine screen '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( सहित methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( thc )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( codeine, मॉरफीन, हेरोइन, oxycodone, Hydrocodone, etc. )
phencyclidine ( pcp )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket, प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी मानवयुक्त चंद्र landing missions
Space exploration is the डिस्कवरी और खोजी of बाहरी स्पेस by अर्थात् of space technology.
Physical खोजी of स्पेस is conducted दोनो by इंसान spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft.
जबकि the अवलोकन of वस्तुएँ in स्पेस, ज्ञात as खगोलशास्त्र, predates विश्वसनीय अंकित इतिहास, it थी the विकास of विशाल और अपेक्षाकृत कुशल rockets during the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality.
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing वैज्ञानिक शोध, uniting अलग राष्ट्र, ensuring the भविष्य अस्तित्व of मानवता and developing military and strategic advantages against other countries.
विभिन्न आलोचनाओं of स्पेस खोजी are sometimes made.
Space खोजी रै प्रायः महरूम प्रयुक्त as a प्रॉक्सी प्रतियोगिता लिये geopolitical rivalries ऐसे as the Cold War.
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the संयुक्त राज्य, the लॉन्च of the पहला man-made ऑब्जेक्ट to कक्षा the धरती, the ussr 's sputnik 1, on 4 अक्तूबर 1957, और the पहला चंद्रमा लैंडिंग by the अमरीकी अपोलो 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period.
The Soviet space program achieved many of the पहला माइलस्टोन, सहित the पहला जीना होने in कक्षा in 1957, the पहला इंसान spaceflight ( यूरी गगारिन सवार वोस्तोक 1 ) in 1961, the पहला spacewalk ( by aleksei leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the first automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966, and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the first 20 years of exploration, focus shifted from one-off flights to बेदर्दी हार्डवेयर, ऐसे as the स्पेस शटल कार्यक्रम, और इससे प्रतियोगिता to सहयोग as with the International Space Station ( ISS ).
With the substantial पूर्णता of the iss following sts-133 in कूच 2011, योजनाएँ लिये स्पेस खोजी by the यूएसए remain in flux.
नक्षत्र, a बुश प्रशासन कार्यक्रम लिये a वापसी to the चंद्रमा by 2020 थी judged inadequately वित्तपोषित और unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009.
The Obama Administration प्रस्तावित a संशोधन of नक्षत्र in 2010 to फ़ोकस on the विकास of the काबिलियत लिये crewed मिशन परे कम धरती कक्षा ( leo ), envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the iss परे 2020, transferring the विकास of लॉन्च वाहनों for human crews from NASA to the private sector, and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO, such as Earth/Moon L1, the Moon, Earth/Sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and Phobos or Mars orbit.
As of March 2011, the US Senate and House of Representatives are स्टिल working towards a सुलह नासा funding विधेयक, जिससे होगा संभवतः terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ).
In the 2000s, the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन initiated a कामयाब मानवयुक्त spaceflight कार्यक्रम, जबकि the यूरोपीय संघ, जापानी, and India have also planned future manned space missions.
China, Russia, Japan, और इण्डिया have advocated मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा दौरान the 21st सदी, जबकि the European Union has advocated manned missions to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century.
From the 1990s onwards, निजी रूचि began promoting स्पेस पर्यटन और तब निजी स्पेस खोजी of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ).
John Calvin कूलिज, jr. ( जुलाई 4, 1872january 5, 1933 ) थी the 30th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1923–1929 ).
A Republican lawyer from Vermont, Coolidge worked his way up the ladder of मैसाचुसेट्स राज्य राजनीती, आखिरकार बनने राज्यपाल of कि state.
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust उसे into the नेशनल स्पॉटलाइट और दिया उसे a प्रतिष्ठा as a man of decisive action.
Soon after, he was elected as the 29th वाइस अध्यक्ष in 1920 और succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी upon the अचानक मौत of Warren G. Harding in 1923.
Elected in his own right in 1924, he gained a प्रतिष्ठा as a small-government रूढ़िवादी, और भी as a man who said very little.
Coolidge restored पब्लिक विश्वास in the श्वेत हाउस बाद the घोटालों of उसके पूर्ववर्ती 's administration, and left office with considerable popularity.
As a Coolidge biographer put it, `` He embodied the स्पिरिट और उम्मीदें of the मध्य क्लास, could interpret उनके longings और एक्स्प्रेस their opinions.
That he did represent the genius of the औसत is the सबसे convincing प्रमाण of his strength. ''
Some later criticized Coolidge as भाग of a सामान्य आलोचना of laissez-faire government.
उसके प्रतिष्ठा underwent a पुनर्जागरण दौरान the रोनाल्ड reagan प्रशासन, लकिन the परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी is स्टिल divided between those who approve of his reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the federal government should be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy.
Espresso is a concentrated पेय brewed by forcing a छोटी राशि of nearly खौलते water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans.
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods, a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids, और crema ( अर्थ मलाई, लकिन होने a सन्दर्भ to the झाग साथ a मलाईदार बनावट कि फ़ॉर्म as a परिणाम of the दबाव ).
As a result of the pressurized brewing process the flavors और रसायन in a ठेठ कप of एस्प्रेसो हैं बहुत concentrated.
Espresso is the आधार लिये अन्य पेय, ऐसे as a latte, कापुचीनो, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
Espresso has more caffeine per unit आवाज़ than सबसे पेय, लकिन the usual सेवारत आकार is smaller—a ठेठ 60 ml ( 2 us द्रव ounce ) of एस्प्रेसो रै 80 to 150 mg of कैफीन, छोटी कम than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee.
Brian Keith Kelly ( born अक्तूबर 25, 1961 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच और पूर्व player.
He is currently the head football coach for the notre dame लड़ आयरिश, a स्थिति he रै आयोजित चूंकि December 2009.
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand घाटी राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों ( 1991–2003 ), सेंट्रल मिशिगन विश्वविद्यालयों ( 2004–2006 ), और विश्वविद्यालयों of सिनसिनाटी ( 2006–2009 ).
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or अधिक पार्टियों, प्रत्येक of जिसको intends to बनाएँ एक or अधिक विधिक दायित्वों between उन्हें.
The elements of a अनुबंध हैं `` प्रस्ताव '' और `` स्वीकृति '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता जो एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be किया in लिखने, हालांकि अनुबंध may be बना entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of मुआवजे of धन or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन enforced through an injunction.
दोनो of ये remedies पुरस्कार the पार्टी at घाटा the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों.
A अनुबंध is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking कि something will or will not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a promise may नहीं have the पूरा खड़ा of a अनुबंध, as जब it is an अनुबंध बगैर विचार.
Contract law varies greatly इससे एक क्षेत्राधिकार to another, सहित मतभेद in आम विधि compared to सिविल विधि, the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि, विशेषकर इससे England in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there हैं 40 प्रासंगिक अधिनियमों जिससे प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 अंतरराष्ट्रीय यंत्र or प्रथाओं जिससे हैं लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सम्मेलन on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.
Sidney Patrick Crosby, ons ( born अगस्त 7, 1987 ) is a कनाडाई पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी खिलाड़ी जो is कप्तान of the पिट्सबर्ग penguins of the नेशनल Hockey League ( NHL ).
Crosby was drafted first overall by the penguins आउट of the क्यूबेक प्रमुख जूनियर हॉकी लीग ( QMJHL ).
During his two-year प्रमुख जूनियर करियर साथ the rimouski océanic, he अर्जित back-to-back CHL Player of the Year awards and led his club to the 2005 Memorial Cup final.
Nicknamed `` The अगला एक ``, he थी एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक regarded ड्राफ्ट चयन in हॉकी इतिहास, अग्रणी अनेक to refer to the 2005 ड्राफ्ट लॉटरी as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes ''.
In his पहला एनएचएल ऋतु, crosby समाप्त छठे in लीग स्कोरिंग साथ 102 अंक ( 39 लक्ष्य, 63 assists ) और थी a runner-up for the Calder Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ).
By his second season, he led the एनएचएल साथ 120 अंक ( 36 लक्ष्य, 84 assists ) to कैप्चर the आर्ट रॉस ट्रॉफी, बनने the youngest खिलाड़ी and the only teenager to win a scoring title in any major North American sports league.
That same season, Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey Writers Association 's choice for most मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी और the लेस्टर B. पियर्सन पुरस्कार as the एनएचएल खिलाड़ी संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी, बनने the सातवाँ खिलाड़ी in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year.
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the टोली 's कप्तानी और subsequently led उन्हें to the 2008 स्टेनली कप फाइनल, जहाँ वे यहूद पराजित by the Detroit Red Wings in six games.
The Penguins लौटे to the फाइनल विरूद्ध डेट्रॉयट the following साल और जीती in सात खेल ; Crosby became the youngest captain in NHL history to win the Stanley Cup.
In the 2009–10 season, Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying उसे साथ स्टीवन stamkos लिये the प्रक्षेपास्त्र रिचर्ड ट्रॉफी as the league-leader ; साथ 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, crosby प्राप्त the चिह्नित मेसियर नेतृत्व पुरस्कार.
In 2010–11, crosby sustained a concussion as a परिणाम of हिट्स to the head in back-to-back games.
The injury left him sidelined लिये टेन और a हाफ महीने.
However, after playing आठ खेल in the 2011–12 ऋतु, crosby 's concussion-like लक्षण लौटे in दिसम्बर 2011, और he किया not return until mid-March 2012.
Internationally, Crosby has represented Canada in numerous tournaments लिये the देश 's जूनियर और मेन 's टीमों.
After competing in the 2003 u-18 जूनियर संसार कप, he represented कनाडा in back-to-back iihf संसार u20 championships, जीतना silver in 2004 and gold in 2005.
At the 2006 iihf संसार चैंपियनशिप, he led the टूर्नामेंट in स्कोरिंग, जबकि भी कमाई शीर्ष Forward and All-Star Team honours.
Four years later, Crosby was named to Team Canada लिये the 2010 शीत ओलंपिक in वैंकूवर.
Playing the संयुक्त राज्य in the सुनहरा पदक खेल, he scored the game-winning goal in overtime.
A United राज्य cent, भी ज्ञात as a penny.
`` my दो सेंट '' ( 2¢ ) और इसके longer संस्करण `` put my दो सेंट in '' is an संयुक्त राज्य ( us ) idiomatic अभिव्यक्ति, लिया इससे the असली English idiom expression : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
it is प्रयुक्त to preface the अंतरिम stating of one’s opinion.
By विरोधात्मक the राय to follow – suggesting इसके मान is तभी दो सेंट, a बहुत छोटी amount – the user of the phrase hopes to lessen the impact of a possibly statement, showing politeness and humility.
however, it is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त साथ विडंबना when expressing a strongly felt opinion.
The phrase is also used आउट of आदत to preface uncontentious opinions.
लिये example:
The Chinese Civil War was a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the गणतंत्र of चीन led by the kuomintang ( kmt ) और शक्तियां of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी of चीन ( CPC ).
The war began in April 1927, amidst the उत्तरी expedition, और essentially ended जब प्रमुख active battles ceased in 1950.
The conflict eventually resulted in दो de facto राज्य, the गणतंत्र of चीन ( आरओसी ) in ताईवान और the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन ( पीआरसी ) in मेनलैंड China, both claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
The war represented an ideological विभाजित ( बाएँ vs. सही ) between the कम्युनिस्ट cpc, and the KMT 's brand of Nationalism.
The civil war continued intermittently जबतक लेट 1937, जब the दो पार्टियों formed a दूसरी संयुक्त Front to counter a Japanese invasion.
China 's full-scale सिविल युद्ध resumed in 1946, a साल बाद the समाप्त of hostilities with Japan.
After four more years, 1950 saw the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly संस्थापित लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन controlling मेनलैंड चीन ( सहित हाइनान ), और the गणतंत्र of चीन 's क्षेत्राधिकार होने प्रतिबंधित to Taiwan, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu and several outlying islands.
The kuomintang शिकस्त is attributed to अनेक कारकों : भ्रष्टाचार - च्यांग लिखा in उसके डायरी on जून 1948 that the KMT had failed, not because of external enemies but because of rot from within.
Strong आरंभिक support इससे the u.S. diminished, और then, stopped.
( Partly because of kmt भ्रष्टाचार और anti-democratic शासन, और partly क्युकी of the अनिश्चित u.S. विदेशी नीति towards साम्यवादी between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords.
इस ensured pla लोकप्रिय support.
After the surrender of जापानी at the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध ii, सोवियत शक्तियां turned over उनके captured जापानी हथियार to the cpc और अनुमत the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria.
To this दिन, no armistice or सलाम सन्धि रै कभी महरूम हस्ताक्षरित, और it is debated as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended.
Cross-Strait relations have महरूम hindered by सैन्य खतरे और राजनैतिक और आर्थिक दबाव, विशेषकर over Taiwan 's political status, with both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy. ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the आरओसी साथ a सैन्य आक्रमण if the आरओसी officially declares स्वतंत्रता by बदलना इसके नाम to और gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan.
The ROC mutually claims mainland चीन, और वे दोनो continue the लड़ो over राजनयिक recognition.
Today, the war as such occurs on the political and economic fronts in the form of cross-Strait relations ; however, the दो पृथक de facto राज्य have बंद आर्थिक ties.
The One Hundred Twelfth United States कॉंग्रेस थी the बैठक of the विधान शाखा of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी, इससे जनवरी 3, 2011 जबतक January 3, 2013.
It convened in Washington, D.C. on January 3, 2011, और ended on जनवरी 3, 2013, 17 दिनों पहले the समाप्त of the अध्यक्षीय पद to जिससे बराक Obama was elected in 2008.
Senators elected to नियमित शर्तें in 2006 समाप्त those शर्तें in this Congress.
This Congress included the पिछला हाउस of प्रतिनिधि निर्वाचित इससे congressional जिले कि यहूद apportioned based on the 2000 census.
In the 2010 midterm elections, the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी जीती the बहुमत in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
While the डेमोक्रेट रखा उनके सीनेट बहुमत, it was reduced from the previous Congress.
This was the first कॉंग्रेस in जिससे the हाउस और सीनेट यहूद नियंत्रित by अलग पार्टियों चूंकि the 107th कॉंग्रेस ( 2001–2003 ), and the first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ).
In this Congress, the House of प्रतिनिधि था the largest क्रमांक of रिपब्लिकन सदस्यों, 242, since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the कैनेडी परिवार परोसा, as खूब as the सबसे नीतियां polarized कॉंग्रेस चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण, with record low approval ratings.
माल in the संयुक्त राज्य is commonly measured in शर्तें of जाल लायक, which is the sum of all assets, including home equity, minus all liabilities.
The total net worth of US households और nonprofit संगठन 1945–2009, unadjusted लिये महंगाई or जनसांख्यिकी change.
For example, a household in कब्ज़ा of an $ 800,000 हाउस, $ 5,000 in परस्पर निधि, $ 30,000 in गाड़ियाँ, $ 20,000 लायक of भण्डार in their own company, and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000.
Assuming कि इस household होता have a $ 250,000 बंधक, $ 40,000 in car लोन, and $ 10,000 in credit card debt, its debts would total $ 300,000.
subtracting the debts इससे the लायक of इस household 's एसेट ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), this household would have a net worth of $ 600,000.
जाल लायक can vary साथ fluctuations in value of the underlying assets.
The wealth —more specifically, the median net worth—of households in the United States is varied with संबंध to रेस, शिक्षा, भौगोलिक स्थान और लिंग.
As one would expect, households साथ वृहद आय विशेषता the उच्चतम जाल worths, हालांकि ऊँची आय can नहीं be taken as an always accurate indicator of net worth.
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the वृद्धि, साथ baby boomers hitting the highs of उनके careers.
In addition, wealth is unevenly वितरित, साथ the wealthiest 25 % of us households owning 87 % of the माल in the United States, which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009.
Including human capital such as skills, the United Nations अनुमानित the कुल माल of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy प्रक्रियाओं लिये पीड़ा राहत ; लिये those प्रक्रियाओं, जिससे have begun to लो the नाम `` rhizotomy '' in निश्चित उदाहरण, देखिए facet rhizotomy and similar.
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic तंत्रिका जड़ें in the स्पाइनल cord, सबसे प्रायः to relieve the लक्षण of neuromuscular शर्तें ऐसे as spastic diplegia और अन्य फ़ॉर्म of spastic cerebral palsy.
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the प्रमुख उपयोग of rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising in spastic cp चूंकि the 1980s ; in इस सर्जरी, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed.
The sensory nerve roots, where spasticity is located, हैं पहला अलग इससे the मोटर ones, और the तंत्रिका मछली to be काटें हैं तब पहचाना via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity हैं तब selectively lesioned with tiny electrical pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely लक्ष्य और नष्ट the क्षतिग्रस्त nerves कि don’t प्राप्त गामा अमीनो butyric एसिड, which is the core problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy.
These over-firing, non-gaba-absorbing nerves generate असामान्य विद्युत कार्यकलाप दौरान the emg परीक्षण phase in sdr और हैं यूँ माना to be the सोर्स of the रोगी 's hypertonia ; वे हैं eliminated साथ the electrical pulses once identified, while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched.
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and that this is done without affecting nervous प्रणाली संवेदनशीलता or फलन in अन्य क्षेत्रों, क्युकी the तभी nerves नष्ट हैं the over-firing ones जिम्मेदार लिये the मांसपेशी tightness.
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly बनने interchangeable in the उपचार of दीर्घकालिक वापस pain from degenerative disc disease.
This is a कार्यविधि पुकारा a facet rhizotomy और is नहीं a सर्जिकल कार्यविधि लकिन is बजाय किया on an outpatient आधार using a सरल जांच to लागू radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body.
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to eight or more months of pain relief before the nerve regenerates and another गोलाकार of the कार्यविधि needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation, और इसके उपयोग of the `` rhizotomy '' नाम चाहिए not be confused with the SDR procedure.
Migrant मजदूर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 1935
The term migrant worker has different official meanings and connotations in अलग भाग of the संसार.
The United Nations ' definition is broad, सहित कोई लोगों working बाहर of उनके घर country.
The term can also be used to describe किसी जो migrates भीतर a देश, संभवतः उनके अपना, in अनुक्रम to pursue work such as seasonal work.
Photograph of Lil Wayne साथ teardrop टैटू नीचे उसके eyes.
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a symbolic टैटू कि is लगाई underneath the नजर.
It has no फिक्स्ड अर्थ लकिन लगभग सब meanings ( see below ) have some connection to prison.
U.S. Route 75 is a north–south u.S. राजमार्ग.
The highway 's northern terminus is in Kittson County, Minnesota, at the Canadian border, where it एकबार जारी as मनिटोबा राजमार्ग 75 on the अन्य पक्ष of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in डलास, टेक्सास, जहाँ it is ज्ञात as उत्तर सेंट्रल Expressway.
u.S. 75 थी a border-to-border रूट, इससे कनाडा to the गल्फ of Mexico at Galveston, Texas.
However, the entire खण्ड दक्षिण of डलास, टेक्सास रै महरूम decommissioned in एहसान of अंतरराज्यीय 45, a कटऑफ section of town-to-town surface road having become State Highway 75.
Lower Ninth वार्ड is a पड़ोस of the नगर of New Orleans.
As the नाम implies, it is भाग of the Ninth Ward of New Orleans.
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the संपूर्ण क्षेत्रफल भीतर नई ऑरलियन्स downriver of the औद्योगिक कनाल ; however, the नगर नियोजन Commission divides this area into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
The term `` Lower '' refers to its स्थान दूर towards the मुँह of the मिसिसिपी नदी, `` bas '' or `` नीचे '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology.
But the 9th वार्ड, जैसे सब wards in नई ऑरलियन्स, is a voting district.
the 9th वार्ड थी added as a मतदान ज़िला in 1852.
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1, 2, 4, और 7 जिससे मेक up the पावन क्रॉस क्षेत्रफल और वार्ड 9 जिले 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher voting district numbers in the 9th वार्ड ( 8-27 ) हैं on the upriver पक्ष of the औद्योगिक Canal.
the क्षेत्रफल आए to नेशनल ध्यान लिये इसके devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
हबल दृश्य of कोपरनिकस crater ( इनसेट ), जिससे is परिचय 58 मील ( 93 km ) wide
Red and नारंगी tinted चंद्रमा, as देखी इससे धरती दौरान a चंद्र ग्रहण, जहाँ the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural satellite of the Earth, and the पांचवां largest उपग्रह in the सौर System.
It is the largest natural satellite of a ग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली सापेक्ष to the आकार of इसके प्राथमिक, having 27 % the व्यास और 60 % the घनत्व of Earth, resulting in its mass.
The चंद्रमा is the दूसरी densest उपग्रह बाद io, a satellite of Jupiter.
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth, always showing the same face with its near पक्ष चिह्नित by अंधेरा volcanic मरिया कि भरण between the उज्जवल प्राचीन crustal हाइलैंड्स और the prominent प्रभाव craters.
It is the brightest object in the sky after the Sun, although its सतह is दरअसल बहुत अंधेरा, साथ a reflectance समान to कि of कोयले.
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have, चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, बना the चंद्रमा an महत्वपूर्ण सांस्कृतिक influence on भाषा, पंचांग, आर्ट and mythology.
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the समंदर tides और the मिनट lengthening of the day.
The Moon 's current orbital अलहदा, परिचय तीस टाइम्स the व्यास of the धरती, कल्याणकारी it to appear लगभग the same size in the sky as the Sun, allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely in total solar eclipses.
This matching of apparent विज़ुअल आकार is a coincidence.
The Moon 's linear distance from the धरती is फिलहाल increasing at a रेट of 3.82±0.07cm प्रति साल, but this rate is not constant.
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 अरब सालो पहले, नहीं long after the Earth.
Although there have been several hypotheses लिये इसके उत्पत्ति in the पास्ट, the वर्तमान सबसे widely स्वीकृत स्पष्टीकरण is कि the चंद्रमा formed from the debris left over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body.
the चंद्रमा is the तभी celestial देह अन्य than धरती on which humans have set foot.
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA अपोलो कार्यक्रम हासिल the तभी मानवयुक्त मिशन to तिथि, शुरूआत साथ the पहला मानवयुक्त चंद्र orbiting मिशन by अपोलो 8 in 1968, और छह मानवयुक्त चंद्र अवतरण between 1969 and 1972, with the first being Apollo 11.
ये मिशन लौटे over 380 kg of चंद्र रॉक्स, जिससे have महरूम प्रयुक्त to develop a geological समझना of the चंद्रमा 's origins, the formation of its internal structure, and its subsequent history.
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972, the चंद्रमा रै महरूम visited तभी by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the फाइनल Soviet Lunokhod rover.
चूंकि 2004, जापानी, चीन, इण्डिया, the संयुक्त राज्य, और the European Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters.
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of lunar जल बर्फ in permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे और बंधी into the चंद्र regolith.
Future manned missions to the Moon have been planned, सहित सरकारी as खूब as privately वित्तपोषित प्रयत्न.
The Moon remains, under the Outer Space Treaty, free to all राष्ट्र to explore लिये शांतिपूर्ण उद्देश्य.
रोनाल्ड विल्सन reagan ( ; फ़रवरी 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004 ) was the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to that, he was the 33rd Governor of कैलिफ़ोर्निया ( 1967–1975 ), और a रेडियो, फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न actor.
Born in Tampico, Illinois, and raised in डिक्सन, reagan थी शिक्षित at यूरेका कॉलेज, कमाई a स्नातक of Arts degree in economics and sociology.
After graduating, Reagan स्थानांतरित पहला to आयोवा to कार्य as a रेडियो प्रसारणकर्ता और तब, in 1937, to लॉस एंजिल्स जहाँ he began a करियर as an actor, first in films and later television.
Some of his सबसे notable films शामिल knute rockne, सब अमरीकी ( 1940 ), Kings Row ( 1942 ), and Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors गिल्ड और बाद as a प्रवक्ता लिये सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; उसके प्रारंभ in राजनीती occurred दौरान उसके कार्य लिये GE.
originally a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी, उसके स्थितियाँ began shifting rightward in the 1950s, and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
After delivering a rousing वाक in support of बैरी goldwater 's अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवारी in 1964, he थी persuaded to तलाश the कैलिफ़ोर्निया governorship, जीतना दो years later and again in 1970.
He was defeated in his run for the रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1968 और in 1976, लकिन जीती दोनो the नामांकन और सामान्य चुनाव in 1980, defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter.
As president, reagan implemented sweeping नई राजनैतिक and economic initiatives.
His supply-side economic policies, उतावले `` reaganomics ``, advocated reducing कर दरों to spur आर्थिक विकास, controlling the धन सप्लाई to reduce महंगाई, deregulation of the economy, and reducing government spending.
In his first term he survived an हत्या attempt, took a मुश्किल लकीर विरूद्ध मजदूर संघ, घोषित a नई युद्ध on दवाएँ, and ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He was re-elected in a भूस्खलन in 1984, proclaiming कि it was `` Morning in America ``.
His second term was primarily marked by foreign matters, ऐसे as the समाप्ति of the ठंडा युद्ध, the 1986 bombing of लीबिया, and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire ``, he supported anti-communist movements विश्वव्यापी और खर्च उसके पहला पद forgoing the रणनीति of détente by ordering a विशाल सैन्य buildup in an बाहें रेस साथ the ussr.
Reagan negotiated with Soviet सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव, culminating in the inf सन्धि and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals.
reagan बाएँ दफ्तर in 1989.
In 1994, the former president disclosed कि he था महरूम diagnosed साथ अल्जाइमर 's बीमारी earlier in the year ; he died ten years later at the age of 93.
A conservative icon, he ranks highly in public opinion polls of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों और is credited लिये generating an वैचारिक पुनर्जागरण on the अमरीकी राजनैतिक सही.
Complete नियत of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, tenak, tanach ) is a नाम प्रयुक्त in judaism लिये the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The tanakh is भी ज्ञात as the masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '', भी ज्ञात as the पाँच किताबे of मूसा ), nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), अर्थ `` कि जिससे is पढ़ा '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral परंपरा passed on by प्रत्येक पीढी, पुकारा the Oral Torah.
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a कावासाकी 600 cc क्लास खेल मोटरसाइकिल.
It थी introduced in 1995, और रै महरूम constantly अद्यतनीकृत throughout the सालो in response to new products from Honda, Suzuki, and Yamaha.
The ZX series is what was known as the निंजा लकीर of कावासाकी मोटरसाइकिल in the 1980s and still carries the name today.
Assassination attempts and plots on Presidents of the United States have been numerous : more than 20 कोशिशें to मार बैठे और पूर्व राष्ट्रपतियों, as खूब as the presidents-elect, हैं known.
Four sitting राष्ट्रपतियों have महरूम मारे : अब्राहम lincoln ( the 16th अध्यक्ष ), जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड ( the 20th अध्यक्ष ), William McKinley ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ).
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : पूर्व अध्यक्ष थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ( the 26th अध्यक्ष ), and President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ).
Although the historian J.W. Clarke रै सुझाया कि सबसे अमरीकी assassinations यहूद नीतियां प्रेरित क्रियाएँ, carried आउट by तर्कसंगत मेन, नहीं सब such attacks have been undertaken for political reasons.
कुछ हमलावर था questionable दिमागी स्थिरता, and a few were judged legally insane.
Since the Vice President of the संयुक्त राज्य रै लिये अधिक than a सदी महरूम निर्वाचित इससे the वही राजनैतिक पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष, the हत्या of the President is unlikely to result in major policy changes.
इस may बताइये क्यों राजनैतिक समूह typically do not make such attacks.
Where the रेड फर्न grows is a अनोखा लिखा by विल्सन राल्स in 1961 परिचय a लड़के who buys and trains two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs.
Oklahoma ( ) ( pawnee : uukuhuúwa, cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th सबसे extensive और the 28th सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
The state 's name is निकला इससे the choctaw शब्द okla और humma, अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '', और it is ज्ञात informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of ओक्लाहोमा territory और भारतीय territory on नवम्बर 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा was the 46th state to enter the union.
Its निवासियों हैं ज्ञात as oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', और इसके capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and agriculture, ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन, उर्जा, दूरसंचार, and biotechnology.
It has one of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the स्वदेश, रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय विकास और सकल domestic product growth.
ओक्लाहोमा नगर और तुलसा serve as ओक्लाहोमा 's प्राथमिक आर्थिक anchors, with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas.
With small पहाड़ सीमाएँ, प्रेयरी, mesas, और पूर्वी वनों, सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the U.S. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of अंग्रेज़ी, जर्मनी, स्कॉटिश, आयरिश और देशी अमरीकी ancestry, अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी languages are spoken in Oklahoma, second only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a संगम of तीन प्रमुख अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक regions और historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव, a गंतव्य for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Redwall, by ब्रायन ज़ाक, is a श्रेणी of children 's fantasy novels.
It is the title of the first book of the series, published in 1986, as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the किताब और the नाम of an एनिमेटेड tv श्रेणी आधारित on तीन of the novels ( redwall, mattimeo, and Martin the Warrior ), which first aired in 1999.
The books are primarily aimed at पुरानी children, लकिन have प्रशंसक of सब आयु.
There have been twenty-two novels और दो चित्र किताबे प्रकाशित.
The twenty-second, and फाइनल, अनोखा, the दुष्ट क्रू, थी मरणोपरांत released on May 3, 2011.
Natural Gas is usually measured by आवाज़ in the संयुक्त राज्य and is stated in cubic feet.
A cubic foot of गैस is the राशि of गैस needed to भरण a आवाज़ of एक घन पैर अंतर्गत नियत शर्तें of दबाव और temperature.to माप larger amounts of प्राकृतिक गैस, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet, and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet.
To provide greater accuracy in comparing fuels, उर्जा सामग्री is measured in शर्तें of `` अंग्रेजों थर्मल Units ( BTU 's ). ''
A BTU is the amount of heat जरूरी to उठाएँ एक पाउंड of जल ( लगभग a pint ), एक उपाधि Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density.
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- si ईकाई of ऊष्मा उर्जा बराबर to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ).
It is लगभग the उर्जा समतुल्य of burning 100 घन फीट ( प्रायः referred to as 1 ccf ) of प्राकृतिक gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not energy content, a therm factor is प्रयुक्त by ( प्राकृतिक ) गैस कंपनियाँ to बदलें the आवाज़ of गैस प्रयुक्त to इसके ऊष्मा समतुल्य, और यूँ गणना the वास्तविक उर्जा use.
the therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रायः in the units therms/CCF.
It will vary साथ the मिक्सर of hydrocarbons in the प्राकृतिक gas.
Natural gas with a उच्चतर than औसत विशेषज्ञता of इथेन, प्रोपेन or ब्यूटेन will have a higher therm factor.
impurities, ऐसे as कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड or nitrogen, lower the therm factor.
The volume of the गैस is गणना as if measured at मानक तापमान और दबाव ( STP ).
The heat content of natural gas is solely निर्भर on the संयोजन of the गैस, और is स्वतंत्र of तापमान और pressure.
One therm is बराबर to परिचय 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can भी be provided by परिचय of प्राकृतिक गैस.
The therm sometimes has been उलझन साथ the thermie ( देखिए नीचे ).
the names of दोनो इकाई come from the Greek word for heat.
A thermie ( th ) is a मीट्रिक ईकाई of ऊष्मा उर्जा, भाग of the meter-tonne-second प्रणाली sometimes प्रयुक्त by यूरोपीय engineers.
The thermie is equal to the amount of उर्जा जरूरी to उठाएँ the तापमान of 1 टन of जल by 1 °C.
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 BTU.
The American सिविल युद्ध ( acw ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The युद्ध था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध.
Eight बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, और दोनो sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार War I.
It remains the deadliest war in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28, 1949 ) is a पूर्व u.S. track और फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी, प्रेरक स्पीकर, socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और बिजनेसमैन.
He won the सुनहरा पदक लिये decathlon in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics.
Following his Olympic win and the related मान्यता, he शादीशुदा क्रिस कार्दशियन, and his professional career evolved into being a television celebrity.
By 1981, he had starred in अनेक made-for-tv फिल्मों और थी erik एस्ट्राडा 's बदलना on the शीर्ष रेटेड tv series CHiPs.
He रै छह children : बर्ट, केसी, Brandon, Brody, Kendall and Kylie.
Since उसके 1991 विवाह to क्रिस जेनर, he is the stepfather to Kourtney, Kim, Khloe and Rob Kardashian.
चूंकि 2007, he रै appeared साथ उसके blended family on Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. कोलाई ) is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium कि is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ).
Most E. coli strains are harmless, but some serotypes can कारण गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in इंसानो, और हैं occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination.
The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut, और can लाभ उनके होस्ट by producing विटामिन k2, और by preventing the स्थापना of रोगजनक जीवाणु within the intestine.
E. coli and related bacteria constitute परिचय 0.1 % of आंत फ्लोरा, और fecal–oral हस्तांतरण is the प्रमुख रूट through जिससे रोगजनक strains of the bacterium cause disease.
Cells are able to जीवित बाहर the देह लिये a सीमित राशि of समय, जिससे makes उन्हें आदर्श indicator जीवों to परीक्षण environmental samples for fecal contamination.
There is, however, a growing देह of शोध कि रै examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods outside of the host.
The bacterium can also be grown easily और inexpensively in a प्रयोगशाला सेटिंग, और रै महरूम intensively investigated for over 60 years.
E. coli is the सबसे widely पढ़ाई prokaryotic मॉडल सजीव, और an महत्वपूर्ण प्रजाति in the फ़ील्ड of जैवप्रौद्योगिकी और सूक्ष्मजैविकी, where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA.
Area code 217 is the North अमरीकी टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड लिये much of पश्चिमी और central Illinois.
the 217 क्षेत्रफल शामिल इलिनोइस ' पूंजी, springfield, प्लस Champaign, Urbana, Decatur, Danville, Quincy, and Rantoul.
217 was one of the असली क्षेत्रफल कोड, जिससे यहूद निर्मित in 1947.
The only significant change in 217 's boundaries was in 1957, जब इसके उत्तरी portion थी combined with part of area code 815 to form area code 309.
Image of the largest अंटार्कटिक ओज़ोन छेद कभी अंकित ( सितंबर 2006 ), over the Southern pole
Layers of the माहौल ( नहीं to scale )
Ozone depletion describes दो पृथक लकिन सम्बन्धित phenomena observed चूंकि the लेट 1970s : a स्थिर मनाही of परिचय 4 % प्रति दशक in the total volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ), and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions.
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ओज़ोन hole.
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena, there हैं भी springtime ध्रुवीय tropospheric ओज़ोन depletion कार्यक्रम.
The details of polar ozone hole formation differ from that of mid-latitude thinning, लकिन the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण प्रक्रम in दोनो is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens.
The main सोर्स of ये हैलोजन अणु in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs, freons, halons ).
These compounds are transported into the stratosphere बाद होने उत्सर्जित at the surface.
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to बढ़ाएँ as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs and other contributory substances are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ).
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's माहौल, observed और प्रक्षिप्त decreases in ओज़ोन have उत्पन्न विश्वव्यापी चिंता अग्रणी to अपनाना of the मॉन्ट्रियल प्रोटोकॉल कि bans the उत्पादन of cfcs, halons, और अन्य ozone-depleting रसायन ऐसे as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane.
It is suspected that a किस्में of biological consequences ऐसे as increases in स्किन कर्कट, cataracts, क्षति to पौधे, और कटौती of प्लवक populations in the समंदर 's photic मण्डल may परिणाम इससे the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion.
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the संविधान 's आधारभूत उद्देश्य और guiding सिद्धान्त.
It states in सामान्य शर्तें, और न्यायालयों have referred to it as विश्वसनीय प्रमाण of, the founding fathers ' इरादों regarding the संविधान 's अर्थ और कया वे hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the लोगों '' suggests कि the नई सरकारी originates इससे the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य और it सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों और समता among सब लोगों ; इस can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
Czechoslovakian शॉट putter plihan at the 1957 ईस्ट जर्मनी Indoor Athletics Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track और फ़ील्ड इवेंट involving `` फेंकना '' / '' putting '' ( फेंकना in a pushing गति ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as far as possible.
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the आधुनिक ओलंपिक चूंकि उनके पुनरुद्धार in 1896, महिलाओं 's प्रतियोगिता began in 1948.
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) member राज्य, साथ उनके territories ( सहित निर्भर territories ) पहचाना by the UN in blue
There are संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( un ) सदस्य राज्य, और प्रत्येक of उन्हें is a सदस्य of the United Nations General Assembly.
The मापदण्ड लिये प्रवेश of नई सदस्यों हैं नियत आउट in the संयुक्त Nations Charter, Chapter II, Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative votes from at least नौ of the परिषद 's पंद्रह सदस्यों, साथ none of the पाँच स्थाई सदस्यों मतदान विरूद्ध.
The Security Council 's recommendation must then be subsequently स्वीकृत in the सामान्य सभा by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign राज्य can become un सदस्यों, और फिलहाल सब un सदस्यों हैं sovereign राज्य ( हालांकि a few सदस्यों were not sovereign when they joined the UN ).
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a number of states that may be considered sovereign states according to the Montevideo सम्मेलन मापदण्ड हैं नहीं सदस्यों क्युकी the un करता नहीं consider उन्हें to possess प्रभुता, मुख्यतः due to the कमी of अंतरराष्ट्रीय मान्यता or विपक्ष from certain members.
In addition to the member states, the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ), intergovernmental organizations, and other अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन और entities जिनकी statehood or प्रभुता हैं नहीं precisely पारिभाषित, to become observers at the सामान्य सभा, allowing उन्हें to participate और बोलो, लकिन नहीं vote, in सामान्य सभा meetings.
The Eiffel Tower (, ) is an iron lattice tower located on the champ de मंगल in पेरिस, नामित बाद the इंजीनियर gustave एफिल, जिनकी कम्पनी designed and built the tower.
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair, it has become both a वैश्विक सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक of फ़्रांस और एक of the सबसे recognizable structures in the संसार.
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris और the most-visited सशुल्क स्मारक in the संसार ; 7.1 लाख लोगों ascended it in 2011.
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to पब्लिक in the यूरोपीय संघ और the उच्चतम in यूरोपीय as long as the मंच of the ostankino मीनार, at, remains बंद as a परिणाम of the fire of August 2000.
The tower received its 250 millionth आगंतुक in 2010.
The tower stands लम्बा, परिचय the वही ऊँचाई as an 81-storey building.
During its निर्माण, the एफिल मीनार surpassed the वॉशिंगटन स्मारक to assume the शीर्षक of the tallest man-made ढांचा in the संसार, a title it held for 41 years, until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930.
Because of the addition, in 1957, of the एंटीना atop the एफिल मीनार, it is अभी taller than the Chrysler Building.
Not including broadcast antennas, it is the second-tallest ढांचा in फ़्रांस, बाद the Millau Viaduct.
The tower रै तीन स्तर लिये विज़िटर.
Tickets can be purchased to ascend, by सीढ़ियाँ or लिफ्ट ( लिफ्ट ), to the first and second levels.
the चलना इससे मैदान स्तर to the पहला स्तर is over 300 steps, as is the walk from the first to the second level.
The third and highest level is accessible तभी by lift—stairs do मौजूद लकिन हैं प्रायः बंद to the public.
The first and दूसरी स्तर have रेस्तरां.
The tower has become the सबसे prominent प्रतीक of दोनो पेरिस और फ़्रांस, प्रायः in the establishing shot of films set in the city.
केनेथ वेन `` केन '' जेनिंग्स iii ( born may 23, 1974 ) is an American game show contestant and author.
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest जीतना streak on the u.S. syndicated खेल show Jeopardy !
and as being the all-time leading धन विजेता on अमरीकी खेल shows.
In 2004, जेनिंग्स जीती 74 Jeopardy !
games before he थी पराजित by चैलेंजर नैंसी zerg on his 75th appearance.
उसके कुल आय on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins, a $ 2,000 second-place पुरस्कार in उसके 75th रूप, a $ 500,000 second-place पुरस्कार in the jeopardy !
परम टूर्नामेंट of champions, as खूब as हाफ of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge.
During his पहला चलाएं of jeopardy !
दिखावे, जेनिंग्स अर्जित the रिकार्ड लिये the उच्चतम अमरीकी game show winnings.
His total was surpassed by ब्रैड rutter, जो पराजित जेनिंग्स in the finals of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on may 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to rutter 's मौजूदा Jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the रिकार्ड बाद appearing on अनेक अन्य खेल shows, culminating in an रूप on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( पहला aired on अक्तूबर 10, 2008 ), though Rutter retains the Jeopardy !
रिकार्ड.
After his success on Jeopardy !, Jennings wrote about his experience and छान अमरीकी ट्रिविया इतिहास और संस्कृति in उसके किताब brainiac : adventures in the जिज्ञासु, प्रतिस्पर्धी, बाध्यता World of Trivia Buffs, published in 2006.
The कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल लीग or cfl ( ' [ lcf ] in फ्रेंच ) is a professional sports league located in Canada.
The CFL is the highest level of प्रतियोगिता in कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल, a रूप of gridiron फ़ुटबॉल closely सम्बन्धित to American football.
Its eight current teams, which are located in आठ पृथक शहरों, हैं विभाजित into दो विभाजन of चार टीमों प्रत्येक — the ईस्ट प्रभाग and the West Division.
The league 's 19-week regular season runs from late June to early November ; प्रत्येक टोली plays 18 खेल साथ एक अलविदा सप्ताह.
Following the regular season, the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the fourth place team in one division has a better record than the third place team in the अन्य प्रभाग, जब the टोली साथ the बेहतर रिकार्ड makes the playoffs और `` crosses over '' to the अन्य प्रभाग 's playoff ) compete in the लीग 's three-week डिवीजनल playoffs, जिससे culminate in the late-november धूसर Cup championship, the country 's largest annual sports and television event.
The CFL was officially founded on January 19, 1958, making it the दूसरी oldest gridiron फ़ुटबॉल लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका स्टिल in आपरेशन, हालांकि सब इसके टीमों long predate the modern formation of the league.
It is the highest level of play in Canadian football, the most popular football लीग in कनाडा, और the second-most लोकप्रिय प्रमुख खेल लीग in कनाडा, बाद the नेशनल हॉकी League.
Although ice हॉकी is कनाडा 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल, the cfl रै increased the लोकप्रियता of कनाडाई football in Quebec and Western Canada.
कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल is भी निभाई at amateur स्तर ( i.e. युवावस्था, ऊँची स्कूल, cjfl, QJFL, CIS and senior leagues such as the Alberta Football League ).
The 2010s होगा be a significant दशक लिये the cfl in शर्तें of विकास, as टीमों have संवर, विस्तारित स्टेडियम, or plan to build entirely new stadiums.
The Montreal Alouettes संपन्नता इस पहला, adding 5,000 सीटे to पर्सिवल molson मेमोरियल स्टेडियम in time for the 2010 CFL season.
The Edmonton Eskimos and कैला स्तेमपेड्रस भी संवर उनके संबंधित स्टेडियम और सुविधाएं लिये the 2010 season.
In 2011, the BC शेर निभाई अंतर्गत a नई, retractable छत in bc प्लेस बाद बिता one and a half seasons at Empire Field.
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will खेल in an entirely नई स्टेडियम at the विश्वविद्यालयों of मनिटोबा, अनुसूचित to खोलें in time for the 2013 season.
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Saskatchewan roughriders और the नई ओटावा मताधिकार हैं भी looking at नई or extensively-renovated स्टेडियम in the following years.
वहीँ हैं भी उम्मीदें of expanding the लीग to अटलांटिक कनाडा ( ideally basing a टोली in either the अधिक आबादी Halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton.
According to sports इतिहासकार डगलस brei, the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल लीग holds the भेद of होने the तभी पेशेवर खेल लीग in उत्तर America, major or minor league, in which each existing franchise has won at least one league title while in their current location.
Each antibody binds to a विशिष्ट प्रतिजन ; an बातचीत समान to a lock and key.
An एंटीबॉडी ( ab ), भी ज्ञात as an immunoglobulin ( ig ), is a विशाल y-shaped प्रोटीन उत्पादित by b-cells कि is प्रयुक्त by the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली to पहचानो और neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses.
The antibody recognizes a unique part of the विदेशी निशाना, पुकारा an antigen.
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an एंटीबॉडी contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a ताला ) कि is विशिष्ट लिये एक particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on an antigen, allowing these two structures to bind together with precision.
Using this binding mechanism, an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other parts of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली, or can neutralize इसके निशाना सीधे ( लिये उदाहरण, by ब्लॉकिंग a भाग of a microbe कि is अनिवार्य लिये इसके आक्रमण और अस्तित्व ).
The उत्पादन of antibodies is the प्रमुख फलन of the humoral immune system.
antibodies हैं स्रावित by a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त cell called a plasma cell.
Antibodies can occur in दो शारीरिक फ़ॉर्म, a घुलनशील रूप कि is स्रावित इससे the कोशिका, और a झिल्ली -bound रूप कि is संलग्न to the सतह of a b कोशिका and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ).
The BCR is only found on the surface of b कोशिकाएं और facilitates the सक्रियण of ये कोशिकाएं और उनके subsequent differentiation into either एंटीबॉडी कारखानों पुकारा प्लाज्मा कोशिकाएं, or मेमोरी b कोशिकाएं कि will survive in the body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure.
In most cases, interaction of the B cell with a T हेल्पर कोशिका is जरुरी to उपज पूरा सक्रियण of the b कोशिका और, इसलिए, एंटीबॉडी पीढी following antigen binding.
Soluble antibodies हैं released into the रक्त और ऊतक fluids, as खूब as अनेक secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms.
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the शर्तें एंटीबॉडी और immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically made of basic संरचनात्मक units—each साथ दो विशाल भारी जंजीरों और दो छोटी लाइट जंजीरों.
There are several different types of antibody heavy जंजीरों, और अनेक अलग kinds of antibodies, जिससे हैं grouped into अलग isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess.
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals, which perform different roles, and सहायता सीधा the उचित प्रतिरक्षा जवाब लिये प्रत्येक अलग प्रकार of विदेशी ऑब्जेक्ट they encounter.
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar, a small region at the tip of the प्रोटीन is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय, allowing लाखो of antibodies साथ थोड़ा अलग टिप structures, or प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग साइट, to exist.
इस प्रदेश is ज्ञात as the hypervariable region.
प्रत्येक of ये विसंगतियाँ can bind to a अलग antigen.
This विशाल विविधता of antibodies allows the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens.
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a set of gene segments that encode different antigen binding sites ( or paratopes ), followed by यादृच्छिक mutations in इस क्षेत्रफल of the एंटीबॉडी जीन, जिससे बनाएँ further diversity.
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process called class switching that changes the base of the heavy chain to another, बनाना a अलग isotype of the एंटीबॉडी कि retains the प्रतिजन विशिष्ट परिवर्तनीय प्रदेश.
इस allows a सिंगल एंटीबॉडी to be प्रयुक्त by अनेक अलग भाग of the immune system.
The symbol used by the Zodiac कातिल to चिह्न उसके पत्राचार
The Zodiac Killer थी a सीरियल कातिल जो संचालित in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
The killer 's identity remains अनजान.
The Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia, vallejo, झील berryessa, और सैन फ्रांसिस्को between दिसम्बर 1968 और अक्तूबर 1969.
Four men और तीन महिलाओं between the आयु of 16 and 29 were targeted.
The killer originated the name `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting अक्षर भेजा to the लोकल खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल दबायें.
These letters शामिल चार cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the four cryptograms भेजा, तभी एक रै महरूम definitively हल.
Suspects have been named by law enforcement और amateur जांचकर्ताओं, लकिन no conclusive प्रमाण रै surfaced.
In April 2004, the सैन फ्रांसिस्को पुलिस विभाग चिह्नित the मामला `` निष्क्रिय '', yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007.
the मामला भी remains खोलें in the नगर of vallejo, as खूब as in Napa County and Solano County.
The कैलिफ़ोर्निया विभाग of इंसाफ रै कायम an खोलें मामला संचिका on the Zodiac murders since 1969.
Jennings is a small city in and the मोहल्ला सीट of जेफरसन डेविस मोहल्ला, louisiana, United States, near Lake Charles.
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, a छोटी मनाही इससे the 2000 tabulation.
The नगर is 68 प्रतिशत white.
Jennings is the principal city of the जेनिंग्स micropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, जिससे शामिल all of Jefferson Davis Parish.
It is also भाग of the larger झील charles-jennings संयुक्त Statistical Area.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर of पदार्थ on an परमाणु और आणविक स्केल.
The earliest, फैली वर्णन of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological लक्ष्य of precisely manipulating अणु और अणुओं for fabrication of macroscale products, also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently स्थापित by the नेशनल nanotechnology पहल, जिससे defines nanotechnology as the हेरफेर of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
This definition reflects the फैक्ट कि क्वांटम mechanical प्रभाव हैं महत्वपूर्ण at इस quantum-realm स्केल, और so the परिभाषा shifted इससे a particular technological लक्ष्य to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold.
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies '' as खूब as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the व्यापक दायरा of शोध और अनुप्रयोग जिनकी आम trait is size.
Because of the variety of potential applications ( including industrial and सैन्य ), सरकारें have invested अरबों of डॉलर in nanotechnology शोध.
Through its National nanotechnology पहल, the यूएसए रै invested 3.7 अरब डॉलर.
The European Union रै invested 1.2 अरब और जापानी 750 लाख dollars.
nanotechnology as पारिभाषित by आकार is naturally बहुत व्यापक, सहित फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान as diverse as surface science, organic chemistry, molecular biology, semiconductor physics, microfabrication, etc.
The associated research and applications are equally diverse, ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to completely नई approaches आधारित upon आणविक self-assembly, इससे विकासशील नई सामग्री साथ आयाम on the nanoscale to सीधा कंट्रोल of पदार्थ on the परमाणु स्केल.
Scientists फिलहाल बहस the भविष्य implications of nanotechnology.
Nanotechnology may be able to create many new materials and devices with a vast range of अनुप्रयोग, ऐसे as in आयुर्विज्ञान, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, biomaterials और energy production.
On the other hand, nanotechnology raises many of the वही मुद्दे as कोई नई प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित चिंताएं परिचय the toxicity और पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of nanomaterials, और their potential effects on global economics, as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios.
These concerns have led to a debate among वकालत समूह और सरकारें on whether खास विनियमन of nanotechnology is warranted.
Map of the पूर्वी bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the पूर्व कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of सेंट्रल और पूर्वी यूरोपीय, generally the सोवियत Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact.
The terms Communist Bloc and सोवियत bloc यहूद भी प्रयुक्त to denote groupings of राज्य लकीर साथ the सोवियत संघ, हालांकि these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe.
The New Jersey gubernatorial चुनाव of 2009 took प्लेस on नवम्बर 3, 2009.
लोकतांत्रिक राज्यपाल jon corzine थी कार्यशील लिये a दूसरी पद और थी होने challenged by रिपब्लिकन क्रिस क्रिस्टी, Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others, in addition to several write-in candidates.
क्रिस्टी जीती the चुनाव, साथ परिचय 48.5 प्रतिशत of the vote, to 44.9 percent for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett.
Christie won the largest हाशिया लिये a पहला पद Republican since 1969.
Christie assumed दफ्तर on जनवरी 19, 2010.
This was the first चुनाव to भरण the newly निर्मित दफ्तर of Lieutenant Governor.
The उम्मीदवार लिये राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल यहूद joined साथ as a single choice, so that voters did not have the opportunity to split the ticket.
Kim guadagno, क्रिस्टी 's कार्यशील mate, became नई जर्सी 's पहला लेफ्टिनेंट governor following her inauguration.
Health care in the United States is provided by अनेक पृथक संगठन.
स्वास्थ्य परवाह सुविधाएं हैं largely स्वामित्व और operated by private sector businesses.
Health insurance for public सेक्टर कर्मचारी is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending आता इससे कार्यक्रम ऐसे as medicare, medicaid, tricare, the children 's स्वास्थ्य Insurance Program, and the Veterans Health Administration.
Most of the population अंतर्गत 65 is insured by उनके or a परिवार सदस्य 's नियोक्ता, कुछ ख़रीदे स्वास्थ्य बीमे on their own, and the remainder are uninsured.
Of 17 high-income countries पढ़ाई by the नेशनल संस्थान of स्वास्थ्य in 2013, the संयुक्त राज्य थी at or निकट the नीचे in शिशु मृत्यु, दिल और फेफड़ों बीमारी, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, and rates of disability.
Together, such issues place the U.S. at the नीचे of the सूची लिये जीवन प्रत्याशा.
On average, a U.S. male can be expected to live लगभग चार कम सालो than those in the top-ranked country.
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ), the United राज्य खर्च अधिक on स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रति capita ( $ 7,146 ), और अधिक on स्वास्थ्य परवाह as प्रतिशत of its GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other nation in 2008.
The Commonwealth निधि क्रमित the संयुक्त राज्य पिछला in the विशेषता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह among similar countries, and notes U.S. care costs the most.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported कि 49.9 लाख निवासियों, 16.3 % of the जनसांख्यिकी, यहूद uninsured in 2010 ( up इससे 49.0 million residents, 16.1 % of the population, in 2009 ).
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( IOM ) report said : `` The संयुक्त राज्य is among the few industrialized राष्ट्र in the संसार कि करता नहीं गारंटी अभिगम to health care for its population. ''
A 2004 oecd रपट कहा : `` साथ the एक्सेप्शन of मैक्सिको, तुर्कों, और the संयुक्त राज्य, सब oecd देशों था हासिल सार्वभौमिक or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health बीमे कल्याणकारी roughly 48,000 अनावश्यक मौतों प्रत्येक साल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed ऊँची चिकित्सा खर्च.
a 2013 पढ़ाई मिला कि परिचय 25 % of सब वरिष्ठ नागरिकों घोषित दिवालियापन due to medical expenses, and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence.
On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care अधिनियम ( ppaca ) became विधि, providing लिये प्रमुख परिवर्तन in health insurance.
In physiology, body जल is the जल सामग्री of the human body.
A significant भिन्न of the इंसान body is water.
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the कुल राशि of जल in a man of औसत वज़न ( 70 गामा ) is लगभग 40 litres, averaging 57 percent of his total body weight.
In a newborn infant, this may be as high as 75 प्रतिशत of the देह वज़न, लकिन it progressively decreases इससे जनम to बूढ़ा आयु, सबसे of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life.
Also, obesity decreases the प्रतिशत of जल in the देह, sometimes to as low as 45 percent ''.
These figures are statistical averages, so are illustrative, और जैसे सब biostatistics, होगा vary साथ बाते जैसे प्रकार of जनसांख्यिकी, आयु and number of people sampled, and methodology.
So there is not, and can not be, a figure कि is exactly the वही लिये सब लोगों, लिये इस or कोई अन्य physiological माप.
For example, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology लिये नर्स देता a फिगर of 60 % लिये the proportion of body-weight attributable to जल, जिससे approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased states where देह जल is प्रभावित, the कम्पार्टमेंट or compartments कि have बदला can दे clues to the प्रकृति of the प्रॉब्लम.
Body water is regulated by हार्मोन, सहित anti-diuretic हार्मोन ( अध ), aldosterone और अलिंदी natriuretic peptide.
Per Netter 's Atlas of Human Physiology, देह जल is टूटा bas into the following compartments:
intracellular द्रव ( 2/3 of देह जल ).
Per Guyton, in a body containing 40 लीटर of द्रव, परिचय 25 लीटर is intracellular, which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb.
Jackson 's texts states 70 % of body द्रव is intracellular.
extracellular द्रव ( 1/3 of देह जल ).
Per Guyton 's उदाहरण, लिये a 40 लीटर देह, परिचय 15 लीटर is extracellular, जिससे amounts to 37.5 % Again, this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here.
Plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular द्रव ).
Per Guyton 's उदाहरण, of the 15 लीटर of extracellular fluid, plasma volume averages 3 litres.
This amounts to 20 %, the वही as per Netter 's Atlas.
Interstitial द्रव ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a. `` तीसरा स्पेस, '' सामान्यतः उपेक्षित in calculations )
Contained inside organs, such as the gastrointestinal, प्रमस्तिष्कमेरु, उदरावरणीय, और ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a term used in मनोविज्ञान to प्रतिबिंबित a व्यक्ति 's overall emotional मूल्यांकन of उसके or उसके अपना worth.
It is a निर्णय of oneself as खूब as an रवैया toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example, `` I am competent, '' `` I am worthy '' ) and भाव ऐसे as triumph, despair, अभिमान और शर्म.
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is कया we सोचो परिचय the स्वः ; self-esteem, is the धनात्मक or ऋणात्मक evaluations of the self, as in how we feel about it. ''
Self-esteem is also ज्ञात as the evaluative आयाम of the स्वः कि शामिल जज्बात of worthiness, prides and discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is भी closely संबद्ध साथ self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition कि a व्यक्ति रै जिससे represents उनके judgements of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, मॉरिस rosenberg और social-learning पैरोकार पारिभाषित self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel branden in 1969 पारिभाषित self-esteem as `` the अनुभव of होने competent to cope साथ the मौलिक चुनौतियां of life and being worthy of happiness. ''
According to Branden, self-esteem is the sum of self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी क्षमता ) और self-respect ( a अहसास of निजी worth ).
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every person has of their ability to face life 's challenges, to understand और solve समस्याएं, और उनके सही to achieve सुख, और be दिए आदर.
As a social psychological construct, self-esteem is attractive because शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of प्रासंगिक outcomes, ऐसे as अकादमिक उपलब्धि ( दलदल 1990 ) or कसरत behavior ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
In addition, self-esteem रै भी महरूम treated as an महत्वपूर्ण निष्कर्ष due to इसके बंद संबंध साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक well-being ( Marsh 1989 ).
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular आयाम ( लिये उदाहरण, `` i मानना i am a शुभ लेखक और i महसूस प्रसन्न परिचय कि '' ) or a वैश्विक extent ( लिये उदाहरण, `` I believe I am a bad person, and feel bad about myself in general '' ).
Psychologists usually लिहाज़ self-esteem as an enduring व्यक्तित्व characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), हालांकि सामान्य, short-term विसंगतियाँ ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, and self-integrity.
A Masonic Lodge, often termed a निजी आवास or constituent आवास, is the मौलिक organisational unit of Freemasonry.
Every new Lodge must be warranted or चार्टर्ड by a ग्रैंड आवास, लकिन is विषय to इसके दिशा तभी in enforcing the प्रकाशित संविधान of the jurisdiction.
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand Lodge in London ( today called the संयुक्त ग्रैंड आवास of इंग्लैण्ड ) have the अद्वितीय विशेषाधिकार to operate as समय immemorial i.e. बगैर ऐसे वारंट ; तभी एक अन्य आवास operates बगैर a वारंट - इस is the ग्रैंड stewards ' आवास in लंदन, हालांकि it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title.
A Freemason is generally entitled to visit any Lodge, in कोई क्षेत्राधिकार ( i.e. अंतर्गत कोई ग्रैंड आवास ) in सौहार्द साथ उसके own.
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to निपुण masons ( कि is, freemasons जो have attained the अनुक्रम 's third degree ).
He is first usually required to जाँच, और certify, the नियमितता of the संबंध of the आवास - और be समर्थ to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership.
Freemasons gather साथ as a आवास to कार्य the तीन मौलिक डिग्री of डाला प्रशिक्षु, fellowcraft and Master Mason.
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass निर्माण कम्पनी headquartered in st हेलेन्स, संयुक्त किंगडम और a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of the japan-based एनएसजी समूह.
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an independent company listed on the लंदन भण्डार एक्सचेंज और लिये a समय थी a constituent of the ftse 100 Index.
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as भाग of another एक, विशेषकर जब the कोटेड अभिव्यक्ति is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to इसके असली सोर्स, और it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks.
A quotation can also refer to the repeated उपयोग of इकाई of कोई अन्य रूप of अभिव्यक्ति, विशेषकर भाग of कलाकारी works : तत्व of a पेंटिंग, scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition.
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on Monday ( link होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a आम साल starting on शनिवार of the 12-day धीमा Julian calendar.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the परिवार piperaceae, cultivated लिये इसके फल, जिससे is प्रायः सूखी and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is लगभग in व्यास, अंधेरा रेड जब fully वयस्क, और, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be described simply as pepper, or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( पकाया और सूखी unripe फल ), ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल ) और श्वेत pepper ( सूखी पके बीज ).
ब्लैक pepper is देशी to दक्षिण इण्डिया, और is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried मैदान pepper रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर और as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's सबसे traded मसाला.
It is one of the सबसे आम मसाले added to यूरोपीय भोजन and its descendants.
The spiciness of ब्लैक pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine, नहीं to be उलझन with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the आधुनिक संसार, प्रायः युग्म with salt.
Fire hydrant in charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a johnny pump in New York City ), is an active fire protection measure, and a source of जल provided in सबसे शहरी, suburban और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों साथ नगरपालिका जल सेवा to enable अग्निशमन to tap into the नगरपालिका जल सप्लाई to assist in extinguishing a fire.
Buildings निकट a hydrant may qualify लिये an बीमे छूट चूंकि अग्निशमन चाहिए be able to more rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property.
The अवधारणा of आग plugs तिथियाँ to at तनिक the 17th century.
This was a समय जब अग्निशमन responding to a कॉल होता खुदाई bas to the wooden water mains and hastily bore a hole to secure water to fight fires.
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well, and be transported इससे the खूब to the आग by बाल्टी brigades or, बाद, by hand-pumped fire engines.
The holes were then plugged with stoppers, normally redwood, जिससे over समय आए to be ज्ञात as आग plugs.
The स्थान of the प्लग होता प्रायः be अंकित or चिह्नित so कि it could be reused in future fires.
This is the सोर्स of the colloquial पद आग प्लग स्टिल प्रयुक्त for fire hydrants today.
After the Great Fire of London in 1666, the city installed water mains साथ छेद drilled at intervals, equipped साथ उठते, allowing an अभिगम पाइंट to the लकड़ी आग plugs इससे गली level.
The आविष्कार of a post- or pillar-type आग hydrant is generally credited to फ्रेडरिक graff sr., मुख्य Engineer of the Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801.
It had a combination hose/faucet outlet और थी of `` गीला बैरल '' डिज़ाइन साथ the वाल्व in the top.
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a आग hydrant, लकिन इस can नहीं be सत्यापित क्युकी the पेटेंट दफ्तर in वॉशिंगटन d.C. caught on आग in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process.
The President of the Republic of South Africa is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी अंतर्गत दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's संविधान.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of राज्य थी पुकारा the राज्य अध्यक्ष.
The President is elected by members of the National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament, and is usually the leader of the largest पार्टी, जिससे रै महरूम the अफ़्रीकी नेशनल कॉंग्रेस चूंकि the पहला non-racial चुनावों यहूद आयोजित on 27 April 1994.
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the अभी defunct भूमिका of प्रधान मंत्री, लकिन the दो भूमिकाएँ यहूद मिलाया in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office.
the 1993 और बाद constitutions हद the अध्यक्ष 's time in office to two five-year terms.
the पहला अध्यक्ष to be निर्वाचित अंतर्गत the नई संविधान थी Nelson Mandela, and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma.
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ), वहीँ थी a सरकारी of नेशनल एकता, in जिससे an mp इससे the largest विपक्ष पार्टी थी हकदार to a स्थिति as Deputy President.
Along with Thabo Mbeki, the last State President, F.W. de klerk भी परोसा as डिप्टी अध्यक्ष, in उसके क्षमता as the नेता of the नेशनल पार्टी जिससे थी the second-largest party in the new Parliament.
But De Klerk later resigned और गई into विपक्ष साथ उसके party.
A voluntary coalition government continues to मौजूद अंतर्गत the नई संविधान ( अपनाया in 1996 ), हालांकि there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president.
Special education or special needs education is the शिक्षा of विद्यार्थी साथ खास needs in a रास्ता कि पता the विद्यार्थी ' व्यक्तिगत मतभेद और needs.
Ideally, this process involves the individually नियोजित और systematically monitored व्यवस्था of शिक्षण प्रक्रियाओं, adapted उपकरण और सामग्री, accessible जमावट, और अन्य interventions designed to सहायता learners साथ खास needs achieve a उच्चतर स्तर of निजी self-sufficiency and success in school and community than would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education.
Common special needs include challenges साथ सीखना, संचार चुनौतियां, emotional और behavioral विकार, शारीरिक disabilities, and developmental disorders.
Students with these kinds of special needs हैं संभावित to लाभ इससे अतिरिक्त शैक्षणिक सेवाएं ऐसे as अलग approaches to शिक्षण, use of technology, a specifically adapted teaching area, or resource room.
बौद्धिक giftedness is a अंतर in सीखना और can भी लाभ इससे specialized शिक्षण तकनीकों or अलग शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम, लकिन the पद `` खास education '' is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of students whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom, and gifted education is handled separately.
In सबसे विकसित देशों, शिक्षक हैं modifying शिक्षण विधि और environments so that the maximum number of students are served in general education environments.
Special education in विकसित देशों is प्रायः regarded कम as a `` प्लेस '' और अधिक as `` a दायरा of services, available in every school. ''
संयोजन can reduce सोशल stigmas और improve academic achievement for many students.
The विपरीत of खास शिक्षा is general education.
General शिक्षा is the मानक curriculum प्रस्तुत साथ मानक शिक्षण methods and without additional supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12, 1930, as schwartz györgy ) is a hungarian-american कारोबार महारथी, निवेशकों, and philanthropist.
He is the अध्यक्ष of सोरोस निधि प्रबन्धन.
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes.
He is known as `` the man जो broke the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड `` क्युकी of उसके in निवेश profits दौरान the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis.
Between 1979 and 2011, Soros gave दूर over $ 8 अरब to इंसान अधिकारों, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य, and education causes.
He played a significant role in the peaceful transition from communism to capitalism in हंगेरियाई ( 1984–89 ) और provided एक of यूरोपीय 's largest उच्चतर शिक्षा endowments to Central European University in Budapest.
Soros is also the अध्यक्ष of the खोलें Society Institute.
An actor portraying सिकंदर ग्राहम घंटी बोलना into an early model telephone.
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals, the इतिहास of जिससे involves a संग्रहण of दावा और counterclaims.
The development of the modern electrical टेलीफोन शामिल an सरणी of lawsuits संस्थापित upon the पेटेंट दावा of अनेक individuals और numerous companies.
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898, from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission device, to failed attempts to use `` make-and-break '' current, to successful experiments with इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक telephones by सिकंदर ग्राहम घंटी और थामस वाटसन, और आखिरकार to commercially कामयाब telephones in the लेट 19th सदी.
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA, M.F.A. ) is a graduate degree typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate पढ़ाई परे the स्नातक 's उपाधि ( bfa ), हालांकि the पद of पढ़ाई होगा vary by देश or by विश्वविद्यालयों.
The MFA is a creative उपाधि प्रायः awarded as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in विज़ुअल कला, रचनात्मक writing, filmmaking, dance, or theatre and other performing arts.
Coursework is primarily of an applied or performing nature with the program प्रायः culminating in a प्रमुख कार्य or प्रदर्शन.
Master of Fine Arts programs have generally जरूरी a स्नातक 's उपाधि prior to प्रवेश, लकिन अनेक do नहीं आवश्यकता कि the undergraduate प्रमुख be the same as the MFA field of study.
The most important admissions आवश्यकता रै प्रायः महरूम a नमूना पोर्टफोलियो or a performance audition.
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA, while an academic program, centers around practice in the particular फ़ील्ड, whereas कार्यक्रम अग्रणी to the ma प्रायः बीच on the scholarly, अकादमिक, or नाजुक पढ़ाई of the field.
Additionally, in the United States, an MFA is recognized as a terminal degree for practitioners of विज़ुअल आर्ट, डिज़ाइन, नृत्य, थिएटर, film/video, नई मीडिया, और रचनात्मक लिखने - अर्थ कि it is माना to be the उच्चतम उपाधि in इसके फ़ील्ड, और is प्रयुक्त as a न्यूनतम योग्यता to be समर्थ to लागू to become a full-time प्राध्यापक शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों level in these disciplines.
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts, notably in the case of म्यूज़िक प्रदर्शन, जहाँ the mfa is नहीं देखी as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the more standardized DMA degree.
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between creative production and continued academic research, some विश्वविद्यालयों have स्थापित practice-based ph.d कार्यक्रम in फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रचनात्मक लिखने, विज़ुअल कला, नई मीडिया, डिज़ाइन and theater.
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing, and to a lesser extent in डिज़ाइन और नई मीडिया, the influx of graduates इससे practice-based phd कार्यक्रम रै नहीं appreciably बदला the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet.
This is an जारी contentious टॉपिक, और is the बारंबार विषय of अकादमिक panels, especially at the annual College Art Association conference.
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms that the phd is नहीं जरूरी as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in the विज़ुअल arts.
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and नागासाकी in जापानी यहूद conducted by the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान the फाइनल चरण of संसार युद्ध ii in 1945.
the दो कार्यक्रम हैं the तभी उपयोग of नाभिकीय weapons in war to date.
following a firebombing अभियान कि नष्ट अनेक जापानी शहरों, the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan.
The war in यूरोपीय ended जब नाजी जर्मनी हस्ताक्षरित इसके यंत्र of आत्मसमर्पण on 8 may, but the Pacific War continued.
साथ साथ the संयुक्त किंगडम और the गणतंत्र of चीन, the संयुक्त राज्य पुकारा लिये a आत्मसमर्पण of जापानी in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945, threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction ''.
The Japanese सरकारी उपेक्षित इस ultimatum, और the संयुक्त राज्य तैनात दो nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan Project.
अमरीकी airmen dropped छोटी लड़के on the नगर of हिरोशिमा on 6 August 1945, followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August.
Within the first two to four months of the bombings, the अधि प्रभाव मारे 90,000–166,000 लोगों in हिरोशिमा और 60,000–80,000 in नागासाकी, साथ roughly हाफ of the मौतों in each city occurring on the first day.
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that, of the people जो died on the दिन of the विस्फोट, 60 % died इससे फ्लैश or ज्वाला burns, 30 % इससे falling debris and 10 % from other causes.
During the following months, large numbers died from the प्रभाव of burns, विकिरण बीमारी, और अन्य चोटों, compounded by बीमारी.
In a US estimate of the total तात्कालिक और छोटी पद कारण of मौत, 15–20 % died इससे विकिरण बीमारी, 20–30 % इससे burns, और 50–60 % इससे अन्य injuries, compounded by illness.
In both शहरों, सबसे of the मुर्दे यहूद नागरिकों, हालांकि हिरोशिमा had a sizeable garrison.
On 15 August, six days बाद the bombing of नागासाकी, जापानी घोषित इसके आत्मसमर्पण to the allies, हस्ताक्षर the Instrument of Surrender on 2 September, officially ending World War II.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war Japan 's adopting Three non-nuclear सिद्धान्त, forbidding the स्वदेश इससे नाभिकीय armament.
The role of the bombings in जापानी 's आत्मसमर्पण और उनके नैतिक औचित्य are still debated.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ), commonly ज्ञात as महात्मा गांधी, थी the preeminent नेता of भारतीय राष्ट्रवाद in british-ruled India.
Employing non-violent civil disobedience, गांधी led इण्डिया to स्वतंत्रता और प्रेरित आंदोलनों लिये non-violence, civil rights and freedom across the world.
The son of a senior government official, Gandhi was born and raised in a हिन्दू bania जातियाँ in तटीय गुजरात, और प्रशिक्षित in विधि in लंदन.
Gandhi became famous by fighting for the civil rights of Muslim and Hindu इंडियंस in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, using नई तकनीकों of non-violent सिविल disobedience that he developed.
returning to इण्डिया in 1915, he नियत about organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong opponent of `` communalism `` ( i.e. basing राजनीती on धर्म ) he पहुँचे आउट widely to सब धार्मिक समूह.
he became a नेता of मुसलमान protesting the declining status of the Caliphate.
Assuming leadership of the Indian नेशनल कॉंग्रेस in 1921, गांधी led देशभर अभियान लिये easing गरीबी, expanding महिलाओं 's अधिकारों, भवन धार्मिक और जातीय सौहार्द, समाप्ति अस्पृश्यता, increasing economic self-reliance, and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination.
गांधी led इंडियंस in protesting the नेशनल नमक कर साथ the dandi नमक कूच in 1930, और later in demanding the British to immediately Quit India in 1942, during World War II.
He was imprisoned for that और लिये numerous अन्य राजनैतिक offenses over the सालो.
Gandhi sought to अभ्यास non-violence और सच्चाई in सब परिस्थितियों, और advocated that others do the same.
He saw the villages as the कोर of the सच्चा इण्डिया और प्रचारित self-sufficiency ; he किया नहीं support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the परंपरागत भारतीय धोती और चादर, woven साथ धागे he था हाथ spun on a charkha.
His chief राजनैतिक दुश्मन in ब्रिटेन थी विंस्टन चर्चिल, जो ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
He was a dedicated शाकाहारी, और undertook long fasts as अर्थात् of दोनो self-purification and political mobilization.
In his पिछला साल, अप्रसन्न at the विभाजन of इण्डिया, गांधी worked to रोकें the carnage between Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between India and Pakistan.
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by nathuram गोडसे जो विचार गांधी थी too सहानुभूतिपूर्ण to India 's Muslims.
30 जनवरी is observed as शहीदो ' Day in India.
The honorific महात्मा ( `` ग्रेट आत्मा '' ) was applied to him by 1914.
In India he was also पुकारा bapu ( `` पिता '' ).
He is known in India as the Father of the Nation ; his जन्मदिवस, 2 अक्तूबर, is commemorated वहीँ as गांधी jayanti, a नेशनल अवकाश, और world-wide as the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Day of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy was not theoretical but one of व्यावहारिकतावाद, कि is, practicing उसके सिद्धान्त in the moment.
Asked to give a संदेश to the लोगों, he होता respond, `` my जीवन is my message. ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – May 10, 1977 ), born lucille fay lesueur, थी an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री in film, television and theatre.
Starting as a dancer in traveling नाट्य कंपनियाँ पहले debuting on ब्रॉडवे, क्रॉफर्ड थी हस्ताक्षरित to a गति चित्र अनुबंध by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925.
initially कुंठित by the आकार और विशेषता of उसके भाग, क्रॉफर्ड began a अभियान of self-publicity और became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, Crawford 's fame rivaled, and later outlasted, mgm सहयोगियों norma शियर्र और greta garbo.
क्रॉफर्ड प्रायः निभाई मेहनती यंग महिलाओं who find romance and financial success.
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were well received by अवसाद -era ऑडियंस और यहूद लोकप्रिय साथ महिलाओं.
Crawford became one of हॉलीवुड 's सबसे prominent फिल्म सितारों और एक of the उच्चतम सशुल्क महिलाओं in the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन उसके films began खोने धन और by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison ''.
After an absence of nearly two years from the स्क्रीन, क्रॉफर्ड मंचन a वापसी by अभिनीत in मिल्ड्रेड पियर्स ( 1945 ), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress.
In 1955, she became involved with the pepsi-cola कम्पनी through उसके विवाह to कम्पनी अध्यक्ष अल्फ्रेड स्टील.
After उसके मौत in 1959, क्रॉफर्ड थी निर्वाचित to भरण his vacancy on the board of directors but was forcibly retired in 1973.
She continued एक्टिंग in फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न regularly through the 1960s, जब उसके प्रदर्शन became कम ; बाद the रिलीज of the अंग्रेजों हॉरर फिल्मी Trog in 1970, Crawford retired from the screen.
Following a public appearance in 1974, after which unflattering photographs were published, Crawford withdrew इससे पब्लिक जीवन और became increasingly reclusive जबतक उसके मौत in 1977.
क्रॉफर्ड शादीशुदा four times.
Her first three marriages ended in तलाक ; the पिछला ended साथ the मौत of husband अल्फ्रेड Steele.
She adopted पाँच children, एक of जिसको थी reclaimed by his birth mother.
Crawford 's संबंध साथ उसके दो पुरानी children, क्रिस्टीना and Christopher, were acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the two और, बाद क्रॉफर्ड 's मौत, क्रिस्टीना लिखा a `` tell-all '' संस्मरण, mommie dearest, in जिससे she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford.
She was voted the tenth greatest female star in the इतिहास of अमरीकी सिनेमा by the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान.
1910 Buick tonneau बगैर tonneau cover
1903 घाट मॉडल a rear-door Tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or soft cover प्रयुक्त to protect unoccupied यात्री सीटे in a convertible or roadster, or the कार्गो bed in a pickup truck.
मुश्किल tonneau कवर खोलें by a hinging or फोल्डिंग यांत्रिकी while soft covers open by rolling up.
The tonneau कवर is प्रयुक्त to छिपाते कार्गो.
When the cover is pulled out, it keeps items आउट of the सूर्य और provides अतिरिक्त सुरक्षा by keeping निजी वस्तुएं आउट of sight, as well as shielding the driver from view.
ट्विटर is an ऑनलाइन सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा और microblogging सेवा कि enables इसके उपयोक्ता to भेजें और पढ़ा text-based messages of up to 140 characters, known as `` tweets ''.
Twitter was निर्मित in कूच 2006 by जोकर dorsey और by जुलाई, the सोशल नेटवर्किंग site was launched.
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity, साथ over 500 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता as of 2012, generating over 340 लाख tweets रोज़ and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day.
Since its लॉन्च, ट्विटर रै become एक of the टेन सबसे visited वेबसाइटों on the Internet, and has been described as `` the SMS of the Internet. ''
Unregistered users can read tweets, while पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can पोस्ट tweets through the जालस्थल इंटरफ़ेस, SMS, or a range of apps for mobile devices.
Twitter Inc. is based in सैन फ्रांसिस्को, साथ अतिरिक्त सर्वर और कार्यालयों in नई यॉर्क City, Boston, and San Antonio.
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy फिल्मी, co-produced और निर्देशित by टॉड phillips और लिखा by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore.
It is the first film of The Hangover franchise.The film stars Bradley कूपर, ed helms, zach galifianakis, हीथर ग्राहम, जस्टिन bartha, and Jeffrey Tambor.
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck, Stu Price and Alan Garner, who travel to लास वेगास लिये a स्नातक पार्टी to celebrate उनके dost डग billings ' impending marriage.
However, Phil, Stu and Alan have no memory of the previous रात्रि 's कार्यक्रम और जरूर ढूँढें डग पहले the wedding can take place.
Lucas and Moore wrote the script after executive producer Chris bender 's dost disappeared और था a विशाल विधेयक बाद होने भेजा to a स्ट्रिप क्लबों.
बाद लुकास और मूर बेची it to the स्टुडियो लिये $ 2 लाख, फिलिप्स और जेरेमी garelick rewrote the स्क्रिप्ट to शामिल a बाघ as खूब as a subplot involving a baby and a police cruiser, and also including boxer Mike Tyson.
Filming took place in नेवाडा लिये 15 दिनों, और दौरान फिल्मांकन, the तीन प्रमुख अभिनेताओं ( Cooper, Helms and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship.
The Hangover was released on जून 5, 2009, बनने a नाजुक and commercial success.
It became the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009, साथ a विश्वव्यापी सकल of over US $ 467 million.
Critics praised the film 's comedic दृष्टिकोण लकिन criticized it लिये इसके vulgarity.
The film won the Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति चित्र – musical or कॉमेडी, और प्राप्त multiple other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009 in the संसार, as खूब as the दूसरी highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी कभी in the संयुक्त राज्य, surpassing a रिकार्ड previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012.
Out of all R-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing ever in the U.S., पीछे तभी the जुनून of the मसीह और the मेट्रिक्स reloaded.
A sequel, the hangover भाग ii, थी released in 2011, और a तीसरा और फाइनल फिल्मी, the hangover Part III, is set for release in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, प्रर्दशित chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of cell division जरुरी लिये यौन जनन in eukaryotes.
The cells उत्पादित by meiosis हैं गैमीट or spores.
In many organisms, सहित सब पशु और जमीन पौधे ( लकिन नहीं कुछ अन्य समूह ऐसे as fungi ), gametes are called sperm and egg cells.
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a क्रमांक of similarities साथ the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis, it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a different genetic combination in each gamete, compared साथ the co-existence of प्रत्येक of the दो पृथक pairs of प्रत्येक chromosome ( एक प्राप्त इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) in प्रत्येक कोशिका जिससे परिणाम from mitosis.
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically अद्वितीय ) अगुणित कोशिकाएं, compared साथ the दो ( genetically एकसमान ) द्विगुणित cells produced from mitosis.
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of each chromosome —one इससे the सजीव 's माँ और एक इससे इसके पिता.
The cell divides twice, potentially producing up to चार अगुणित कोशिकाएं containing एक नक़ल of each chromosome.
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases, such as the गठन of oocytes in स्तनधारियों, तभी एक of the संभावित चार अगुणित कोशिकाएं survives. )
In animals the अगुणित कोशिका resulting इससे meiosis is a पुरूष or female gamete.
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete कोशिकाएं is a अद्वितीय मिश्रण of मातृ और पैतृक डीएनए, resulting in औलाद कि हैं genetically distinct from either parent.
This gives rise to जेनेटिक विविधता in sexually reproducing populations.
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural गुण ( phenotypes ) upon जिससे प्राकृतिक चयन can अधिनियम, लकिन, as वर्णित नीचे in खण्ड 6, उत्पत्ति और फलन of meiosis, the जेनेटिक विविधता may be largely a by-product of the समजात recombination कि is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis.
It is also noteworthy that during meiosis, specific genes are more अत्यधिक transcribed, और ये हैं पुकारा the meiome, the पद प्रयुक्त in कार्यात्मक जीनोमिक्स लिये the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a key feature for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in जिससे समजात chromosome pairing, अन्तर्ग्रथन और recombination occur.
In जोड to दमदार meiotic stage-specific अभिव्यक्ति of mrna ( the meiome ), however, वहीँ हैं भी pervasive translational नियंत्रण ( e.g. selective usage of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome and translational नियंत्रण determine the व्यापक restructuring of meiotic कोशिकाएं needed to carry out meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a गोलाकार of डीएनए replication, बनाना इससे the मातृ और पैतृक संस्करण of प्रत्येक chromosome ( homologs ) two exact copies, sister chromatids, attached at the centromere region.
in the शुरूआत of meiosis the मातृ और पैतृक homologs pair to each other.
Then they typically exchange parts by समजात recombination अग्रणी to crossovers of डीएनए between the मातृ and paternal versions of the chromosome.
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of homologs और arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
Then the fibers खींचो the recombined homologs to विपरीत poles of the cell.
As the chromosomes मूव दूर इससे the बीच the कोशिका divides into दो बेटी कोशिकाएं, प्रत्येक containing a haploid number of chromosomes composed of two chromatids.
After the recombined maternal and paternal homologs have अलग into the दो बेटी कोशिकाएं, a दूसरी गोलाकार of कोशिका प्रभाग occurs.
There meiosis ends as the two sister chromatids बनाना up प्रत्येक homolog हैं अलग और मूव into एक of the चार resulting gamete cells.
Upon fertilization, for example when a शुक्राणु enters an अंडा कोशिका, दो gamete कोशिकाएं उत्पादित by meiosis fuse.
The gamete from the mother and the gamete इससे the पिता प्रत्येक योगदान एक हाफ of the नियत of गुणसूत्रों कि make up the new offspring 's genome.
Meiosis uses many of the वही mechanisms as समसूत्रण, a प्रकार of कोशिका प्रभाग प्रयुक्त by eukaryotes जैसे पौधे and animals to split one cell into two identical daughter cells.
In all plants and in many protists meiosis परिणाम in the गठन of बीजाणुओं : अगुणित कोशिकाएं कि can divide vegetatively बगैर undergoing fertilization.
मुक्केबाज़ी ( pugilism, पुरस्कार लड़, the मीठी विज्ञान or in यूनानी pygmachia ) is a martial आर्ट और कॉम्बैट खेल in जिससे दो लोगों engage in a contest of strength, speed, reflexes, endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands.
Amateur boxing is an ओलम्पिक और राष्ट्रमंडल खेल और is a आम fixture in सबसे of the प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय games - it also has its own World Championships.
Boxing is supervised by a referee over a series of one- to three-minute intervals पुकारा rounds.
The result is decided when an प्रतिद्वन्दी is deemed incapable to continue by a रेफरी, is disqualified लिये तोड़कर a नियम, resigns by फेंकना in a तौलिया, or is सुनाया the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest.
the जनम घंटा of मुक्केबाज़ी as a खेल may be इसके स्वीकृति by the ancient Greeks as an Olympic game as early as 688 BC.
Boxing evolved इससे 16th- और 18th-century prizefights, largely in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, to the forerunner of आधुनिक मुक्केबाज़ी in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States.
In 2004, ESPN क्रमित मुक्केबाज़ी as the सबसे मुश्किल खेल in the world.
अनुबंध or concord happens जब a शब्द परिवर्तन रूप depending on the other words to which it relates.
It is an instance of inflection, और प्रायः involves बनाना the मान of कुछ व्याकरणिक श्रेणी ( ऐसे as लिंग or व्यक्ति ) `` agree '' between different words or parts of the sentence.
For example, in मानक अंग्रेज़ी, एक may कह i am or he is, लकिन not `` I is '' or `` he am ''.
This is because the व्याकरण of the भाषा requires कि the क्रिया और इसके विषय agree in person.
The pronouns i और he हैं पहला और तीसरा व्यक्ति क्रमशः, as हैं the verb forms am and is.
The verb रूप जरूर be चयनित so कि it रै the वही व्यक्ति as the subject.
The agreement based on overt व्याकरणिक श्रेणी as ऊपर is औपचारिक अनुबंध, in कंट्रास्ट to notional agreement, which is based on meaning.
For instance, the phrase The United States is treated as एकवचन लिये उद्देश्य of अनुबंध, भी हालांकि it is formally बहुवचन.
This is a list of places below औसत समुद्र स्तर कि हैं on जमीन.
Places in tunnels, mines, basements, dug holes ( also साथ खोलें आसमान ), अंतर्गत जल, अंतर्गत बर्फ, or मौजूदा temporarily as a परिणाम of ebbing of sea tide etc. are not included.
सब आंकड़े हैं in meters below sea level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22, 1948 in yakima, वॉशिंगटन ) is a best-selling अमरीकी लेखक of over 150 रोमांस novels and contemporary women 's fiction.
Over 140 million copies of her किताबे हैं in छपाई throughout the संसार, और चार have become made-for-TV-movies.
Macomber was the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill Award for romance in 2005 और रै महरूम awarded दोनो a रोमांस लेखक of अमेरिका रीता और a आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार by the रोमांस लेखक of America.
Catonsville is a census-designated प्लेस ( cdp ) in बाल्टीमोर County, Maryland, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 41,567 at the 2010 census.
The community lies to the वेस्ट of बाल्टीमोर साथ the नगर 's border.
catonsville is the घर of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड, बाल्टीमोर काउंटी ( UMBC ), a public research university with over 12,000 students.
A lawyer, according to ब्लैक 's विधि शब्दकोष, is `` a व्यक्ति सीखे in the विधि ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law. ''
Law is the प्रणाली of नियम of conduct स्थापित by the sovereign सरकारी of a समाज to correct wrongs, maintain the stability of political and social authority, and deliver justice.
Working as a lawyer involves the व्यावहारिक अनुप्रयोग of अमूर्त विधिक theories और ज्ञान to solve विशिष्ट individualized समस्याएं, or to अग्रिम the रूचि of those जो retain ( i.e., hire ) lawyers to perform legal services.
The role of the वकील varies significantly आरपार विधिक jurisdictions, and so it can be treated here in only the most general terms.
Vector Marketing is the domestic sales arm of cutco निगम, an olean, नई यॉर्क आधारित cutlery निर्माता.
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय विधि requiring covered नियोक्ता to provide कर्मचारी job-protected और unpaid छोड़ लिये योग्य medical and family reasons.
Qualified medical and family reasons शामिल : निजी or परिवार बीमारी, परिवार सैन्य छोड़, गर्भावस्था, adoption, or the foster care placement of a child.
The FMLA is administered by the Wage and Hour Division of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of मजदूर.
The bill was a major part of अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन 's कार्यसूची in his first term.
President Clinton signed the bill into law on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 u.s.c. सेक. 2601 ; 29 cfr 825 ) और it took प्रभाव on अगस्त 5, 1993, six months later.
The FMLA was intended `` to संतुलन the मांगे of the कार्यस्थल साथ the needs of परिवारों. ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid छोड़ दौरान कोई 12-month काल to attend to the गंभीर स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन of the कर्मचारी, जनक, जीवनसाथी or चाइल्ड, or लिये गर्भावस्था or परवाह of a नवजात चाइल्ड, or for adoption or foster care of a child.
In अनुक्रम to be योग्य लिये fmla छोड़, an कर्मचारी जरूर have महरूम at the कारोबार at तनिक 12 महीने, और worked at तनिक 1,250 घंटों over the पास्ट 12 महीने, and work at a location where the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles.
The fmla कवर दोनो public- और private-sector कर्मचारी, लकिन निश्चित श्रेणी of कर्मचारी हैं excluded, including elected officials and their personal staff members.
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era military conflict कि occurred in वियतनाम, लाओस, और कंबोडिया इससे 1 नवम्बर 1955 to the पतन of साइगॉन on 30 April 1975.
This युद्ध followed the पहला इंडोचायना युद्ध और थी लड़ा between उत्तर वियतनाम, समर्थित by इसके कम्युनिस्ट allies, और the सरकारी of South Vietnam, supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries.
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National मुक्ति सामने, or nlf ), a हलके हथियारबंद दक्षिण वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट आम सामने निर्देशित by the उत्तर, largely लड़ा a छापामार war against anti-communist forces in the region.
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) सगाई in a अधिक conventional युद्ध, at टाइम्स committing large units into battle.
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air बड़प्पन और overwhelming firepower to conduct ढूंढें और नष्ट परिचालन, involving ground forces, artillery, and airstrikes.
The U.S. government viewed भागीदारी in the युद्ध as a रास्ता to prevent a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा of दक्षिण Vietnam as part of their wider strategy of containment.
The North Vietnamese government and Viet cong यहूद लड़ to reunify Vietnam under communist rule.
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war, fought initially against France, backed by the U.S., और बाद विरूद्ध दक्षिण वियतनाम, जिससे it regarded as a u.S. puppet state.
American military advisors arrived in कया थी तब फ्रेंच इंडोचायना beginning in 1950.
U.S. भागीदारी escalated in the जल्दी 1960s, साथ troop स्तर tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units यहूद तैनात शुरूआत in 1965.
Operations spanned अंतरराष्ट्रीय सीमायें, साथ लाओस और कंबोडिया heavily bombed.
अमरीकी भागीदारी in the युद्ध peaked in 1968, at the time of the Tet Offensive.
After this, U.S. ground forces were gradually withdrawn as भाग of a नीति ज्ञात as vietnamization.
Despite the पेरिस सलाम accords, हस्ताक्षरित by सब पार्टियों in January 1973, fighting continued.
U.S. military involvement ended on 15 अगस्त 1973 as a परिणाम of the case–church amendment passed by the u.S. Congress.
The capture of Saigon by the वियतनाम लोगों 's फौज in अप्रैल 1975 चिह्नित the समाप्त of the युद्ध, और उत्तर और दक्षिण वियतनाम were reunified the following year.
The war exacted a huge human cost in शर्तें of fatalities ( देखिए वियतनाम युद्ध हताहत ).
Estimates of the क्रमांक of वियतनामी सैनिको और नागरिकों मारे vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million.
Some 200,000–300,000 cambodians, 20,000–200,000 laotians, और 58,220 U.S. service members also died in the conflict.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of अलास्का photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन, May 2006.
राख plumes पहुँचे a ऊँचाई of 19 km दौरान the climactic फटना at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's सतह or क्रस्ट, जिससे allows hot मैग्मा, volcanic राख और गैसों to एस्केप इससे the मैग्मा कक्ष below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally मिला जहाँ tectonic प्लेटों हैं diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों स्लाइड past one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the इंटीरियर्स of प्लेटों, e.g., in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी दरार, the कुएं gray-clearwater volcanic फ़ील्ड और the रिओ ग्रांडे दरार in उत्तर अमेरिका.
This type of volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` थाली परिकल्पना '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate सीमाएँ रै भी महरूम समझाया as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for उदाहरण हवाई, हैं postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km गहन in the Earth.
erupting ज्वालामुखी can पोज़ अनेक जोखिमों, नहीं तभी in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those with jet इंजन जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग temperature.
Large eruptions can affect तापमान as राख और droplets of sulfuric एसिड अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, वे भी अवशोषित ऊष्मा radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
A deep pothole on नई यॉर्क नगर 's दूसरी Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and known in parts of the पश्चिमी संयुक्त राज्य as a chuckhole ) is a प्रकार of disruption in the सतह of a roadway जहाँ a portion of the सड़क सामग्री has broken away, leaving a hole.
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC, also known as hypernephroma ) is a गुर्दा कर्कट कि originates in the अस्तर of the proximal convoluted tubule, the बहुत छोटी tubes in the गुर्दा कि हस्तांतरण gf ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the सबसे आम प्रकार of गुर्दा कर्कट in adults, responsible for approximately 80 % of cases.
It is also known to be the सबसे lethal of सब the genitourinary tumors.
Initial treatment is सबसे commonly a कट्टरपंथी or आंशिक nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year अस्तित्व रेट is 60-70 %, लकिन इस is lowered considerably where metastases have spread.
It is relatively resistant to विकिरण चिकित्सा और कीमोथेरेपी, हालांकि कुछ मामले respond to immunotherapy.
Targeted cancer therapies such as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, and sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC.
Estée Lauder Companies, Inc. is a निर्माता और marketer of प्रतिष्ठा skincare, मेकअप, महक and hair care products.
The company has its मुख्यालय in midtown मैनहटन, नई यॉर्क City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal गुहा or the coelom —it कवर सबसे of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes और कुछ invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is composed of a layer of mesothelium समर्थित by a पतला परत of connective tissue.
The peritoneum both supports the abdominal अंगों और serves as a conduit लिये उनके रक्त और lymph vessels and nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal मांसपेशियां, diaphragm और श्रोणि मंजिल ) चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity, but wrapped in peritoneum ).
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal गुहा कि हैं स्तिथ पीछे the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं पुकारा `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the गुर्दे ), और those structures नीचे the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
Modern 2.5 '' SSD used in उपभोक्ता लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप computers.
DDR sdram आधारित SSD.
अधिकतम और.
PCI संलग्न io त्वरक SSD
PCI-E, DRAM, और नन्द आधारित ssd.
It uses an external शक्ति सप्लाई to मेक the dram non-volatile.
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state डिस्क or इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्क, हालांकि it contains no वास्तविक `` डिस्क '' of कोई दयालु ) is a आंकड़ा भंडार यंत्र using एकीकृत circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently.
SSD technology uses इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अंतरफलक संगत साथ परंपरागत ब्लाक input/output ( i/o ) hard disk drives.
SSDs have no चलती mechanical components, जिससे फर्क उन्हें इससे परंपरागत electromechanical चुम्बकीय डिस्क ऐसे as मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव ( hdds ) or फ्लॉपी डिस्क, which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads.
Compared with electromechanical डिस्क, ssds हैं typically कम susceptible to physical shock, much quieter, have lower access time, and less latency.
However, while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in 2012, ssds हैं स्टिल परिचय 7 to 8 टाइम्स अधिक महंगी प्रति ईकाई of भंडार than HDDs.
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for hard disk ड्राइव, यूँ permitting सरल बदलना in आम अनुप्रयोग.
, most SSDs use nand-based फ्लैश मेमोरी, जिससे retains आंकड़ा without power.
For applications requiring तेज़ अभिगम, लकिन नहीं necessarily आंकड़ा हठ बाद power loss, SSDs may be constructed from random-access memory ( RAM ).
Such डिवाइस may employ पृथक शक्ति स्त्रोत, ऐसे as बैटरी, to maintain data after power loss.
Hybrid drives or solid state hybrid drives ( SSHD ) combine the features of ssds और hdds in the वही ईकाई, containing a विशाल मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव और an ssd संचय to improve प्रदर्शन of frequently accessed data.
These devices may offer near-ssd प्रदर्शन लिये अनेक अनुप्रयोग.
Salmon roe ( बाएँ ) और sturgeon caviar ( सही ) परोसा साथ माँ of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
ossetra caviar, सामन creme fraiche, आलू shallot croquette, basil oil, egg whites and yolks
Caviar, according to the Food and Agriculture संगठन, is a उत्पाद बना इससे salt-cured fish-eggs of the acipenseridae परिवार.
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, साथ pasteurization reducing इसके culinary and economic value.
Traditionally the term caviar refers तभी to roe इससे जंगली sturgeon in the कैस्पियन और ब्लैक समंदर ( बेलुगा, ossetra and Sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the country, caviar may also be used to describe the roe of अन्य मछली ऐसे as सामन, steelhead, ट्राउट, lumpfish, whitefish, and other species of sturgeon.
Caviar is माना a लक्ज़री कोमलता और is खाया as a garnish or a spread.
In 2012, caviar बेची लिये $ 2,500 प्रति पाउंड, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 प्रति kilo.
The SEC Network is a television syndication network featuring सजीव प्रसारण of कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और बास्केट कार्यक्रम इससे the Southeastern Conference.
It is owned and operated by ESPN Plus and is shown in अधिक than 50 प्रतिशत of households in the संयुक्त राज्य, ज़्यादातर southeastern संयुक्त राज्य markets.
The SEC संजाल typically airs in the नून पूर्वी स्लॉट कि थी पूर्व घर to the Raycom Sports SEC game of the week.
Games are shown locally on broadcast स्टेशन, क्षेत्रीय खेल संजाल, as खूब as on ईएसपीएन gameplan, ईएसपीएन Full Court, and ESPN3.com.
the सेक संजाल is भी उपलब्धियाँ in Canada via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV.
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen ग्राफिक्स फिलहाल प्रयुक्त by ईएसपीएन on एबीसी, a संस्करण of ईएसपीएन 's graphics package.
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because सबसे of इसके affiliates do नहीं letterbox उनके मानक परिभाषा फ़ीड्स, जबकि ईएसपीएन 's टेलीविज़न संजाल have अनुमत उनके ग्राफिक्स to लापरवाही the title safe, but letterbox for SD viewers.
starting साथ the सेक 2012 बास्केट ऋतु, सेक संजाल 's ग्राफिक्स have been converted to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format.
This is also being प्रयुक्त लिये the 2013 बास्केट ऋतु, लकिन था स्टिल adapted the पूर्व 4:3-safe ग्राफिक्स format for the 2012 SEC football season.
The 1990s, सुनाया और भी ज्ञात as `` the nineteen-nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the nineties '' or `` the '90s '', was a decade that began on January 1, 1990, and ended on December 31, 1999.
it थी the 10th और पिछला दशक of the 20th सदी और the 100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium.
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold युद्ध at the शुरूआत of the दशक और the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण of the अंतरजाल दौरान the second half of the decade.
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a काल of unprecedented सलाम और समृद्धि, हालांकि अनेक भाग of the so-called तीसरा संसार faced विभिन्न समस्याएं सहित genocide, AIDS and new or continuing ethnic tensions and civil wars.
Culturally speaking the decade थी characterized by the वृद्धि of बहुसंस्कृतिवाद and alternative media.
Movements such as grunge, the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to young लोगों दौरान the दशक, aided by then-new प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as केबल टेलीविज़न and the Internet.
A combination of factors, including the mass mobilization of पूंजी बाज़ार through neoliberalism, the शुरूआत of the फैली अप्रसार of नई मीडिया ऐसे as the अंतरजाल, और the विच्छेद of the सोवियत संघ led to a realignment और reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world, and within countries.
Income असमानता among देशों in the संसार रोज़ sharply between the 1980s और the mid-1990s, before levelling off and then falling after 2000.
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa, the balkans और the काकेशस, the पूर्व दो जिससे led to the rwandan genocide and Bosnian genocide, respectively.
The United States began its current military occupation of the Middle East दौरान the गर्मियाँ of 1990 साथ मरुस्थल शील्ड बाद it काटें बंद a विशाल portion of the संसार 's पेट्रोलियम सप्लाई.
Signs of any resolution of तनाव between इसराईल और the अरब संसार remained elusive, हालांकि the आयरिश परेशानियों आए to a standstill in 1998 साथ the शुभ Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence.
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a प्रजाति of canid देशी to the wilderness और रिमोट क्षेत्रों of उत्तर अमेरिका, Eurasia, and North Africa.
it is the largest सदस्य of इसके परिवार, साथ males averaging, and females.
It is similar in general appearance and proportions to a जर्मनी गड़रिये, or sled श्वान, लकिन रै a larger सिर, narrower छाती, longer legs, straighter tail and bigger paws.
Its winter fur is long and bushy, and predominantly a mottled धूसर in रंग, हालांकि nearly pure श्वेत, red, or brown to black also occur.
Within the genus Canis, the gray wolf represents a अधिक specialised और प्रगतिशील रूप than इसके छोटी cousins ( the कायोटी और सुनहरी jackal ), as demonstrated by इसके morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल शिकार, इसके अधिक gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior.
It is a social animal, travelling in nuclear families consisting of a पन्द्रहवें जोड़ी, accompanied by the जोड़ी 's वयस्क offspring.
The gray wolf is typically an apex परभक्षी throughout इसके दायरा, साथ only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it.
It feeds primarily on विशाल ungulates, हालांकि it भी eats छोटी पशु, पशुधन, carrion, and garbage.
The gray wolf is one of the संसार 's सबसे खूब शोधकार्य पशु, साथ संभवतः अधिक किताबे लिखा परिचय it than any other wildlife species.
It has a long इतिहास of संघ साथ इंसानो, having महरूम despised और hunted in सबसे agricultural समुदायों due to its attacks on livestock, while conversely being respected by some Native American tribes.
It is the sole पूर्वज of the श्वान, जिससे थी पहला domesticated in the Middle East.
Although the fear of wolves is प्रचलित in अनेक इंसान समाजों, the बहुमत of अंकित हमले on लोगों have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies.
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed people, mainly children, but this is unusual, as भेड़ियों हैं अपेक्षाकृत few, सजीव दूर इससे लोगों, और have महरूम सिखाया to भय इंसानो by hunters and shepherds.
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to, though its still अपेक्षाकृत फैली दायरा और stable जनसांख्यिकी अर्थात् कि the प्रजाति is नहीं threatened at a वैश्विक स्तर, और is इसलिए वर्गीकृत by the IUCN as Least Concern.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman सभ्यता, characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old रोमन गणतंत्र, जिससे preceded it, था महरूम destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the परिवर्तन इससे गणतंत्र to साम्राज्य, सहित जूलियस सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc ) ; the बैटल of actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the साम्राज्य यहूद a काल of unprecedented स्थिरता और समृद्धि ज्ञात as the pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It reached its greatest expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of त्राजान ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its अस्तित्व, लकिन थी reunified और stabilized अंतर्गत the emperors aurelian और diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th सदी, दौरान जिससे समय a प्रणाली of डुअल नियम थी विकसित in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the पतन of सेंट्रल सरकारी in the वेस्ट in the 5th सदी, the पूर्वी half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire.
क्युकी of the साम्राज्य 's विशाल extent और long सहनशीलता, the संस्थानों और संस्कृति of रोम था a profound और स्थायी influence on the विकास of भाषा, धर्म, वास्तुकला, philosophy, law, and forms of government in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the संयुक्त राज्य is मुख्यतः provided by the पब्लिक सेक्टर, साथ कंट्रोल और funding coming इससे तीन levels : local, state, and federal, in that order.
Child education is compulsory, and there are also a विशाल क्रमांक और चौड़ी किस्में of उच्चतर शिक्षा संस्थानों throughout the देश कि एक can चुनें to attend, both publicly and privately administered.
Public शिक्षा is universally उपलब्धियाँ.
स्कूल curricula, funding, शिक्षण, नियुक्ति, और अन्य नीतियों हैं नियत through locally निर्वाचित स्कूल फलक साथ क्षेत्राधिकार over school districts with many directives from state legislatures.
स्कूल जिले हैं प्रायः पृथक इससे अन्य लोकल jurisdictions, with independent officials and budgets.
Educational standards and मानकीकृत परीक्षण निर्णय हैं प्रायः बना by state governments.
The ages for अनिवार्य शिक्षा vary by state.
It begins इससे आयु पाँच to आठ और ends इससे ages fourteen to eighteen.
Compulsory education requirements can generally be संतुष्ट by educating children in पब्लिक स्कूलों, state-certified निजी स्कूलों, or an approved home school program.
In most public and private schools, education is divided into तीन स्तर : elementary स्कूल, मध्य स्कूल ( sometimes पुकारा जूनियर ऊँची स्कूल ), और ऊँची स्कूल ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ).
In almost all स्कूलों at ये स्तर, children हैं विभाजित by आयु समूह into ग्रेड, ranging इससे किंडरगार्टन ( followed by पहला ग्रेड ) लिये the youngest children in elementary school, up to twelfth grade, the final year of high school.
The exact age range of students in these grade levels varies थोड़ा इससे क्षेत्रफल to area.
post-secondary शिक्षा, बेहतर ज्ञात as `` कॉलेज `` in the संयुक्त राज्य, is generally governed separately इससे the elementary and high school system, and is described in a separate section below.
Government supported, free public schools for all प्रारंभ होने स्थापित बाद the क्रान्ति, और विस्तारित in the 19th सदी, as the परिणाम of प्रयत्न of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington.
By 1870, सब राज्य था फ़्री elementary schools, albeit only in urban centers.
As the 20th century drew nearer, राज्य प्रारंभ गुजर कानून to मेक schooling अनिवार्य, और by 1910, 72 percent of children attended school.
Private स्कूलों जारी to स्प्रेड दौरान इस समय, as खूब as कॉलेजों and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges.
The year of 1910 भी देखी the पहला सच्चा ऊँची स्कूलों.
During the बाकी of the 20th सदी, शैक्षणिक प्रयत्न केन्द्रित on reducing the inequality of the schooling system.
The landmark Supreme अदालत मामला भूरा v. फलक of शिक्षा बना the desegregation of elementary और ऊँची स्कूलों a national priority, while the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college.
Special शिक्षा थी बना into संघीय विधि in 1975.
The Elementary and Secondary शिक्षा अधिनियम of 1965 बना मानकीकृत परीक्षण a आवश्यकता, और in 1983, a आयोग थी स्थापित to evaluate their results and propose a course of action.
The resulting No Child बाएँ पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 थी विवादास्पद और इसके लक्ष्य proved to be unrealistic.
A commission established in 2006 evaluated उच्चतर शिक्षा, लकिन इसके सुझाव have yet to be fully implemented.
पॉल ब्रैग ( फ़रवरी 6, 1895 – दिसम्बर 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, was a pioneer in America’s wellness movement.
Health spending प्रति capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, साथ the us और कनाडा compared amongst other first world nations.
Comparison of the health care systems in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य हैं प्रायः बना by सरकारी, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य और पब्लिक नीति analysts.
The two countries had similar स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed इसके प्रणाली in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much अधिक धन on स्वास्थ्य परवाह than कनाडा, on दोनो a per-capita आधार and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कनाडा was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कि साल ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of स्वास्थ्य परवाह बिता in कनाडा थी financed by सरकारी, versus 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल कनाडाई बिता ( पब्लिक और निजी ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do n't लो into खाता जनसांख्यिकी मतभेद.
Studies have आइये to अलग conclusions परिचय the परिणाम of इस disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal मिला कि `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in कनाडा, और इसके शिशु मृत्यु रेट is निम्नतर than कि of the u.S., लकिन there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited तुलना, the 2000 संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन 's दरजा of `` overall स्वास्थ्य सेवा प्रदर्शन '', जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट माप of उपलब्धि in the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य, the वितरण of health, the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This पढ़ाई रेटेड the us `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy लिये canadians थी 80.34 सालो compared साथ 78.6 सालो लिये निवासियों of the us, बस comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The जो 's पढ़ाई विधि यहूद criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus कि life-expectancy और शिशु मृत्यु चिह्नित the सबसे विश्वसनीय तरीके to compare nation-wide स्वास्थ्य परवाह, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
The sound source has now broken through the ध्वनि गति अवरोध, और is traveling at 1.4 टाइम्स the गति of sound, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the सोर्स is चलती तेज़ ( साथ a गति ) than the ध्वनि लहरें it creates, it actually leads the advancing wavefront.
The sound source will pass by a stationary निरीक्षक ( साथ a गति ) पहले the निरीक्षक actually hears the sound it creates.
As a result, an निरीक्षक in सामने of the सोर्स होगा detect
and an observer पीछे the सोर्स.
A sonic boom produced by an वायुयान चलती at m=2.92, गणना इससे the कोन कोण of 20 डिग्री.
An observer hears the boom when the शॉक वेव, on the किनारे of the कोन, crosses his or her location.
mach कोन angle
A sonic boom is the ध्वनि संबद्ध साथ the शॉक लहरें निर्मित by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound.
Sonic booms generate विशाल amounts of ध्वनि उर्जा, sounding much like an explosion.
The crack of a supersonic गोली गुजर ओवरहेड is an उदाहरण of a सोनिक boom in miniature.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night बात दिखाएँ hosted by jay लीनो कि initially aired इससे may 25, 1992 to may 29, 2009, और resumed उत्पादन on March 1, 2010.
The fourth अवतार of the tonight दिखाएँ मताधिकार बना इसके डेब्यू on may 25, 1992, तीन days following Johnny Carson 's retirement as host of the program.
The program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank, California, and is ब्रॉडकास्ट सोमवार through शुक्रवार at 11:35 pm in the पूर्वी और प्रशांत समय zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ).
Unlike Carson or his पूर्ववर्ती जोकर paar, लीनो तभी एकबार utilized a अतिथि मेजबान, preferring to मेजबान the श्रेणी by खुद.
On April 26, 1999, the show began broadcasting in 1080i hdtv, बनने the पहला अमरीकी nightly बात दिखाएँ to be शॉट in high definition.
The दिखाएँ is शॉट in 16:9 aspect ratio.
The series, which followed the same मौलिक स्वरूप as कि of उसके पूर्ववर्तियों ( an खोलने monologue followed by कॉमेडी दिनचर्या, साक्षात्कार and performances ), ran until May 29, 2009, after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
NBC signed Leno to a new सौदे लिये a nightly बात दिखाएँ in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
The primetime series, titled The Jay लीनो दिखाएँ, debuted on सितंबर 14, 2009, following a समान स्वरूप to the Leno incarnation of Tonight.
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program, which premiered June 1, 2009, nor the jay लीनो दिखाएँ उत्पन्न the दरजा कि NBC had expected.
The network decided to move a सघन 30-minute संस्करण of लीनो 's दिखाएँ to o'brien 's समय स्लॉट, और o'brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later.
This decision met साथ विपक्ष इससे o'brien, जिनकी कार्यावधि on the tonight दिखाएँ ended जनवरी 22, 2010, after which he began his own talk show on TBS.
The Tonight Show with jay लीनो तब began इसके दूसरी और वर्तमान अवतार, the sixth of the franchise, on March 1, 2010.
RFID chip अगला to a अनाज of राइस.
This chip contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र a coded पहचान number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in उपभोक्ता उत्पाद, और implanted in पालतु, लिये पहचान purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the बेतार non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा, लिये the उद्देश्य of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically भंडारित सूचना.
Some tags are संचालित और पढ़ा at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via चुम्बकीय fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating em फ़ील्ड, और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf रेडियो लहरें ( i.e., इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at सैंकड़ों of मीटर.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be भीतर लकीर of sight of the रीडर, और may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked object.
RFID tags are प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग.
An RFID tag attached to an ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके प्रगति through the सभा line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and pets may have टैग injected, allowing धनात्मक पहचान of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be संलग्न to कपडे, possessions, or भी implanted भीतर लोगों, the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns.
id, अहंकार और super-ego हैं the तीन भाग of the मानसिक apparatus पारिभाषित in सिग्मुंड फ्रायड 's संरचनात्मक मॉडल of the psyche ; वे हैं the तीन सैद्धांतिक constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described.
According to this model of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the नाजुक और moralizing भूमिका ; और the अहंकार is the व्यवस्थित, यथार्थवादी भाग कि mediates between the इच्छाओं of the id और the super-ego.
The super-ego can stop you from doing certain बाते कि अपना id may want तुम to do.
Even though the model is संरचनात्मक और makes सन्दर्भ to an apparatus, the id, अहंकार और super-ego हैं कृत्यों of the mind rather than parts of the brain and do not correspond one-to-one with actual somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and `` topographical मॉडल '' ) थी पहला discussed in उसके 1920 निबन्ध `` परे the ख़ुशी principle `` और थी formalized और elaborated upon तीन सालो बाद in उसके `` The Ego and the Id ``.
Freud 's proposal was influenced by the ambiguity of the पद `` बेहोश `` और इसके अनेक conflicting uses.
Air फ़ोर्स rotc emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training corps ( afrotc ) is एक of the तीन प्राथमिक commissioning स्त्रोत लिये अधिकारियों in the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स, the अन्य दो होने the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स अकादमी ( usafa ) और एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी Training School ( OTS ).
A subordinate command of the Air University within the Air Education and Training Command ( AETC ), afrotc is लकीर अंतर्गत the jeanne M. holm बीच लिये अधिकारी accessions और नागरिक विकास at मैक्सवेल AFB, Alabama.
The Holm Center, formerly ज्ञात as the एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी accession और प्रशिक्षण Schools ( AFOATS ), retains direct responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS.
AFROTC is the largest और oldest सोर्स of commissioned अधिकारियों for the U.S. Air Force.
afrotc 's stated मिशन is to उपज विशेषता नेताओ लिये the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses with 984 additional institutions of higher सीखना participating in cross-town समझौतों कि allow उनके विद्यार्थी to attend afrotc वर्ग at a आसपास `` मेजबान '' कॉलेज or university.
according to afoats hq, in 2006, afrotc commissioned 2,083 यूएसएएफ दूसरी lieutenants, साथ afrotc नामांकन ranging इससे 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, and around 13,000 enrolled today.
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called `` detachments, '' and are typically headed by an active duty USAF officer in the रैंक of कर्नल or लेफ्टिनेंट कर्नल जो कृत्यों as दोनो the detachment कमांडर लिये यूएसएएफ उद्देश्य और साथ the नाममात्र शीर्षक of प्राध्यापक of aerospace अध्ययन ( pas ) भीतर the संस्था 's academic community.
Most colleges and universities होगा designate the afrotc detachment as the विभाग of Aerospace Studies.
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant professors of aerospace अध्ययन ( apas ), सब क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारियों in the बाँधने of प्रमुख or कप्तान.
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide सैन्य प्रशासनिक support और हैं प्रायः augmented by एक to दो civilian स्टाफ support कर्मचारी of the अकादमिक संस्था.
Within AFROTC detachments, the विद्यार्थी ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) हैं व्यवस्थित into विंग्स, समूह, squadrons, और flights, mirroring the USAF functional wing structure.
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC ) consisting of the पहला दो सालो of प्रशिक्षण, और the पेशेवर अधिकारी कोर्स ( poc ) consisting of the पिछला दो सालो of प्रशिक्षण.
The AFROTC program is also divided into two training functions : the Academic Classroom Program ( aerospace अध्ययन वर्ग ) और cadet क्रियाएँ ( i.e., नेतृत्व प्रयोगशाला, शारीरिक प्रशिक्षण, और अन्य प्रशिक्षण ).
Paper density ( also known as आधार वज़न और grammage ) is a पद प्रयुक्त in the गूदा और पेपर उद्योग और भी लिये कपड़ा उद्योग to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric, paper or paperboard.
The term `` density '' is not used in its परंपरागत भाव of द्रव्यमान प्रति ईकाई आवाज़.
`` Paper घनत्व '', बल्कि, is a माप of the area density.
Paper products that let little or no लाइट pass through ( e.g. पोस्टर फलक ) हैं considered dense or heavy.
Paper उत्पाद कि allow कुछ लाइट to pass through ( e.g. tissue paper ) are considered lightweight.
In the pulp and paper industry, it is common to नियत a वाणिज्यिक पेपर यंत्र to उपज पेपर to a निशाना paper density.
Paper density can also be used to distinguish paper from paperboard as the latter प्रायः रै a grammage वृहद than 134 g/m2.
Two ways of expressing पेपर घनत्व are commonly used:
Expressed in grams per वर्गाकार मीटर ( g/m2 ), पेपर घनत्व is भी known as grammage.
This is the measure प्रयुक्त in सबसे भाग of the world.
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as वज़न ) प्रति क्रमांक of चादरें, it is ज्ञात as आधार वज़न.
The convention used in the United States and a few other देशों using us पेपर आकार is पाउंड of a ream of 500 ( or in कुछ मामले 1000 ) चादरें of a given ( raw, still uncut ) basis size.
जापानी पेपर is expressed as the वज़न in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born अप्रैल 19, 1986 ) is an अमरीकी बास्केट खिलाड़ी लिये the wnba 's Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia.
She is the younger सिस्टर of एनबीए खिलाड़ी एंथोनी Parker.
She attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of टेनेसी और थी drafted by the Sparks in 2008.
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA टूर्नामेंट खेल और the पहला स्त्री to डंक twice in a कॉलेज game—she नियत दोनो माइलस्टोन as a redshirt freshman on March 19, 2006.
She also became तभी the दूसरी खिलाड़ी to डंक in a wnba खेल on June 22, 2008.
A versatile player, she is मुख्यतः a आगे, लकिन थी सूचीबद्ध on टेनेसी 's रोस्टर as a forward, center, and guard.
She was a प्रारंभ on the महिला vols बास्केट टोली, winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships.
Parker won the 2009 निकलोडियन बच्चे ' चुनाव पुरस्कार as the पसंदीदा मादा खिलाड़ी in the sports category.
And she was a अतिथि स्टार on फिगर it Out.
A food guide pyramid is a pyramid shaped guide of healthy foods divided into भाग to दिखाएँ the अनुशंसित सेवन लिये प्रत्येक खाना समूह.
The पहला खाना पिरामिड थी published in Sweden in 1974.
The सबसे widely ज्ञात खाना पिरामिड थी introduced by the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of Agriculture in the year 1992, was updated in 2005, and then replaced in 2011.
Over 25 other देशों और संगठनों have भी प्रकाशित खाना pyramids.
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to in scandinavia as H. C. andersen ; अप्रैल 2, 1805august 4, 1875 ) थी a डैनिश लेखक और poet.
Although a prolific writer of plays, travelogues, novels, and poems, andersen is बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके परी किस्से, a साहित्यिक विधा he so mastered कि he खुद रै become as mythical as the tales he wrote.
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; his stories—called, or `` fantastic किस्से '' —express विषयवस्तु कि transcend आयु और राष्ट्रीयता.
During उसके आजीवन he थी acclaimed लिये having प्रसन्न children विश्वव्यापी and was feted by royalty.
Andersen 's fairy tales, which have been translated into more than 125 languages, have become culturally अंतःस्थापित in the वेस्ट 's सामूहिक चेतना, readily accessible to children, लकिन पेश lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well.
They have प्रेरित गति तस्वीरें, plays, ballets, and animated films.
Two figures locking आँखें in caravaggio 's the सौभाग्य Teller
नजर सम्पर्क occurs जब `` दो लोगों dekh at प्रत्येक other 's eyes at the same time. ''
In human beings, eye contact is a form of nonverbal संचार और is विचार to have a विशाल influence on सोशल behavior.
Coined in the early to mid-1960s, the पद रै आइये in the वेस्ट to प्रायः define the अधिनियम as a सार्थक और महत्वपूर्ण चिह्न of विश्वास and social communication.
The customs and significance of नजर सम्पर्क vary widely between संस्कृतियों, साथ धार्मिक और सोशल मतभेद often altering its meaning greatly.
The study of नजर सम्पर्क is sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics.
bed बग हैं parasitic कीट of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood.
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which cimex lectularius, the आम bed कीड़ा, is the बेहतरीन ज्ञात as it prefers to फीड on इंसान रक्त हालांकि अन्य cimex प्रजाति हैं specialized to अन्य पशु, e.g., चमगादड़ bugs, C. pipistrelli ( Europe ), C. pilosellus ( western US ), and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ).
The name of the `` bed कीड़ा '' is निकला इससे the पसन्दीदा आवास of cimex lectularius : गरम घरों और विशेषकर nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas.
Bed bugs are mainly active at रात्रि, लकिन हैं नहीं exclusively nocturnal.
They प्रायः फीड on उनके होस्ट बगैर being noticed.
A number of प्रतिकूल स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव may परिणाम इससे bed कीड़ा bites, including skin rashes, psychological effects, and allergic symptoms.
Diagnosis involves both finding bed बग और the occurrence of संगत symptoms.
Bed bugs have been ज्ञात as इंसान परजीवी लिये हज़ारों of years.
At a point in the जल्दी 1940s, वे यहूद ज़्यादातर eradicated in the विकसित संसार, लकिन have increased in व्यापकता since 1995.
Because infestation of इंसान habitats रै महरूम on the increase, bed bug bites and related conditions have been on the rise as well.
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter नबियों in the यहूदी बाइबल, preceding ezekiel, Jeremiah and the Book of the Twelve.
( The order of the subsequent किताबे differs somewhat in the ईसाई Old Testament ).
The पहला 39 अध्याय prophesy यातना लिये a गुनाहगार यहूदा और लिये सब the राष्ट्र of the संसार कि oppose परमेश्वर, जबकि the पिछला 27 prophesy the बहाली of the स्वदेश of इसराईल और a नई सृष्टि in परमेश्वर 's गौरवशाली भविष्य kingdom ; this section includes the Songs of the Suffering Servant, four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel, interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the किताब to यशायाह बेटे of amoz, लकिन अभी विद्वानों widely सहमत कि the किताब is the कार्य of तीन अलग लेखक - few scholars deny this view, and those that do, do so for theological reasons.
The first, termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ), contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second, Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century BCE author लिखने निकट the समाप्त of the babylonian captivity ; और the तीसरा, the काव्य trito-isaiah ( अध्याय 56–66 ), थी रचित in जेरूसलम shortly बाद the वापसी इससे निर्वासन, संभवतः by अनेक authors.
Oregon State विश्वविद्यालयों ( osu ) is a coeducational, पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in corvallis, Oregon, United States.
The university offers undergraduate, ग्रैजुएट और डॉक्टरेट डिग्री और a multitude of research opportunities.
There are more than 200 अकादमिक उपाधि कार्यक्रम offered through the university.
OSU 's programs in सूक्ष्मजैविकी, नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी, पारिस्थितिकी, वानिकी, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, खाना science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs.
The OSU 's liberal arts programs have also grown significantly and the department is माना a `` cornerstone '' of the संस्था.
More than 200,000 लोगों have attended osu चूंकि इसके founding.
The Carnegie Foundation classifies ऑरेगॉन राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों as भाग of इसके शीर्ष टियर of शोध संस्थानों.
As of 2008, osu is एक of तभी seventy-three land-grant universities.
The school is भी पहचाना as a sea-grant, space-grant और sun-grant संस्था, बनाना it एक of तभी दो us संस्थानों to retain सब चार designations और the तभी पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ).
As one of the two फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the ऑरेगॉन विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली, osu receives अधिक funding लिये शोध, annually, than सब other public higher education institutions in Oregon combined.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females इससे the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the मादा urethra दौरान or पहले an orgasm.
It is also ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, हालांकि ये हैं माना to be अलग phenomena in some research publications.
The exact source and nature of the द्रव continue to be a टॉपिक of बहस among चिकित्सा पेशेवर, which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or प्रजाति of छोटी, air-breathing जमीन घोंघा, a स्थलीय pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae, the amber snails.
The common name of the amber snails is based on the शेल, जिससे is पारदर्शी और जब खाली प्रायः resembles एम्बर in color.
This species is endemic to the United States, specifically the state of एरिज़ोना और यूटा, जहाँ it थी पहला एकत्रित in the जल्दी 20th century.
It has been listed as endangered on the संयुक्त राज्य मछली और वन्यजीव सेवा सूची of endangered प्रजाति since 8 August 1991.
This snail lives in wetlands, springs, and seeps, and only two of its natural habitats are known to मौजूद : तीन झीलों, a मर्ग निकट kanab, यूटा, और vasey 's स्वर्ग, a वसन्त साथ the कोलोराडो नदी भीतर ग्रैंड Canyon National Park.
In its प्राकृतिक आवास it is बल्कि polyphagous, feeding मुख्यतः on bacteria, plants and fungi, and reproduces during the summer.
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the आईयूसीएन रेड सूची of threatened प्रजाति due to a श्रेणी of कारकों ( सहित influence ), the kanab ambersnail रै महरूम reintroduced to तीन स्रोतों ऊपर the ऐतिहासिक ऊँची जल स्तर along the Colorado River.
The Spanish language is the दूसरी सबसे प्रयुक्त भाषा in the संयुक्त States.
There हैं अधिक स्पेनी अध्यक्षों in the संयुक्त राज्य than वहीँ हैं अध्यक्षों of चाइनीज, French, German, Italian, Hawaiian, and the Native American languages combined.
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, स्पेनी is the प्राथमिक भाषा बोला at घर by लगभग 37 लाख लोगों aged पाँच or पुरानी, a फिगर अधिक than double that of 1990.
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language, as well as six million Spanish language students, composing the largest नेशनल spanish-speaking जातियाँ बाहर of मैक्सिको और बनाना स्पेनी the रोमांस भाषा और the indo-european भाषा साथ largest क्रमांक of देशी अध्यक्षों in the world.
roughly हाफ of सब u.S. स्पेनी अध्यक्षों भी बोलो English `` very well, '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of Spanish colonists in areas कि होता बाद become the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा, टेक्सास, कोलोराडो, नई मैक्सिको, एरिज़ोना, नेवाडा, यूटा, और कैलिफ़ोर्निया और of the स्पेनी explorers - who explored areas of 42 states-.
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( साल of the फ्रेंच रिकवरी of territory ), बाद the French and Indian War.
After of the incorporation of these states to the u.S. in पहला हाफ of 19th सदी, the स्पेनी भाषा थी बाद reinforced by the अधिग्रहण of प्यूर्टो रीको in 1898 और by बाद लहरें of the हिस्पैनिक करणों, मूलरूप इससे हिस्पैनिक अमेरिका, to the United States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today.
is a Latin word that means `` यूँ '' or, in लिखने, `` it थी यूँ in the सोर्स सामग्री ''.
Sic may भी refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a कम्यून in रोमानिया
sic, the क्षेत्रीय कोड for Sicily
Sic ( noise कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a कनाडाई noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड इससे torshavn, the पूंजी of the फरो Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC, the आरंभिक of मार्को Simoncelli.
sic as an एक्रोनिम may stand for:
SiC, सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड, a semiconducting सामग्री, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società इटालियाना cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification, a 20th-century u.S. प्रणाली लिये classifying industries
International मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण a un प्रणाली लिये आर्थिक activities
Shetland आइलैंड्स परिषद
the स्विस interbank Clearing system
San isidro क्लबों, an अर्जेंटाइन रग्बी union club
Standing निर्वचन कमेटी, a कमेटी समर्पित to the निर्वचन of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information मानदंड in the फ़ील्ड of आंकडे
second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड of aviation
Sistema interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति ग्रिड in चिली
Sociedade Independente de comunicação ( sic ), a टेलीविज़न चैनल in पुर्तगाल
Sea आइल नगर, नई जर्सी, a coastal town in the United States
segmented पूर्णांक काउंटर विधि, a विधि of operation in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack कि होस्ट the मलेशियाई गोलाकार of सूत्र 1
शंघाई अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a मोटर रेसिंग स्थान in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional computer, a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a two year जूनियर कॉलेज in harrisburg, इलिनोइस, संयुक्त States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is अधिक commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College, Riverview, a जेसुइट स्कूल in सिडनी, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=Five smiling young girls in various मुद्राएँ wearing श्वेत smocks over thigh-length पोशाक of समान रंग to their hair.
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga और दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ a डाल of वर्ण designed by मिया Ikumi.
The series takes प्लेस in टोकियो, जापानी, जहाँ पाँच adolescent लड़कियों, पुकारा mew mews, हैं infused साथ the डीएनए of endangered प्रजाति to कॉम्बैट aliens attempting to take over the Earth.
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series, टोकियो mew mew a la विधि, जिससे introduces a नई mew mew और a new threat.
The Mew Mews are led by the main अक्षर, ichigo momomiya, जिनकी पहला कार्य is to एकत्रित the अन्य चार mew mews : मिंट aizawa, सलाद midorikawa, Pudding Fong, and Zakuro Fujiwara.
As the series progresses, Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya Aoyama to बनने उसके गर्लफ्रेंड जबकि trying to छुपा उसके secret double life from him.
The series antagonists शामिल तीन एलियंस, kish, पाई, और तीखा, and their leader, Deep Blue.
Originally from Earth, the aliens यहूद मजबूर to छोड़ long पहले due to घातक पर्यावरणीय परिवर्तन.
They have returned to kill the इंसानो, जो वे महसूस हैं destroying उनके ग्रह, और reclaim the planet.
In a la Mode, middle school student Berry shirayuki is introduced as the छठे mew mew और, in the अनुपस्थिति of ichigo, the अस्थाई नेता of the Mew Mews.
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists, the संत रोज़ crusaders, a समूह of इंसान teenagers साथ विभिन्न psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia.
Led by Duke, they make अनेक कोशिशें to मार बेरी, आखिरकार turning the लोकल populace against the Mew Mews.
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew was a story called Tokyo ब्लैक बिल्ली लड़की कि प्रदर्शित a cat-girl battling alien invaders.
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat story of five female superheroes, the अक्षर डिजाइन यहूद redone to have a lighter, more colorful feel.
The main series characters were praised for being a पूर्ण अनुरूप लिये the overall स्टोरी, as खूब as लिये उनके cute appearances.
The characters introduced in a la विधि यहूद भी praised लिये उनके विज़ुअल दिखावे, लकिन criticized as होने दोहराव of the original series.
the अक्षर ड्यूक थी भी criticized लिये having a डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the white supremacy group, the Ku Klux Klan.
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( नीचे ) और limestones ( ऊपर ), वर्जिन गठन, southwestern यूटा, USA
Sedimentary रॉक्स हैं प्रकार of चट्टान कि हैं formed by the deposition of सामग्री at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water.
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or सशुल्क अणु ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution.
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating हैं पुकारा sediment.
पहले होने deposited, sediment थी formed by weathering और अपरदन in a सोर्स क्षेत्रफल, और तब transported to the प्लेस of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation.
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the धरती 's क्रस्ट is extensive, लकिन the कुल योगदान of sedimentary रॉक्स is अनुमानित to be only 8 % of the total volume of the crust.
Sedimentary rocks are only a पतला veneer over a क्रस्ट consisting मुख्यतः of igneous और metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary rocks are deposited in परतों as strata, forming a structure called bedding.
The study of sedimentary रॉक्स और चट्टान strata provides सूचना परिचय the subsurface कि is उपयोगी लिये सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी, लिये उदाहरण in the निर्माण of सड़कें, houses, tunnels, canals or other constructions.
Sedimentary rocks are also important स्त्रोत of प्राकृतिक संसाधन जैसे कोयले, चट्टान fuels, पीने water or ores.
The study of the sequence of sedimentary rock strata is the main source लिये वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान परिचय the धरती 's इतिहास, सहित palaeogeography, paleoclimatology और the history of life.
The scientific discipline कि अध्ययन the गुण और उत्पत्ति of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology.
Sedimentology is दोनो भाग of भूविज्ञान और शारीरिक भूगोल और overlaps partly साथ अन्य disciplines in the धरती sciences, ऐसे as pedology, geomorphology, geochemistry or structural geology.
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones, some of which fuse together into a अनुदैर्ध्य अक्ष, the अक्षीय कंकाल, to जिससे the appendicular skeleton is attached.
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 कूच c. 460 or c. 492 ) थी a romano-british ईसाई missionary and bishop in Ireland.
Known as the `` Apostle of Ireland '', he is the प्राथमिक संरक्षक संत of the द्वीप साथ साथ संतो brigid और Columba.
Two प्रामाणिक अक्षर इससे उसे जीवित, इससे जिससे आइये the तभी generally accepted details of his life.
When he was about 16, he was captured from his home and taken as a slave to आयरलैंड, जहाँ he जिया लिये छह सालो पहले escaping और returning to उसके family.
After becoming a cleric, he returned to उत्तरी और पश्चिमी आयरलैंड as an ordained बिशप, लकिन छोटी is ज्ञात परिचय the places where he worked.
By the सातवाँ सदी, he था already आइये to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland.
Most available details of his life हैं इससे subsequent hagiographies, और ये हैं अभी नहीं स्वीकृत without detailed criticism.
the annals of ulster राज्य कि he arrived in आयरलैंड in 432, ministered in Ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
The text, however, distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( thought to mean palladius ) और `` पैट्रिक, archapostle of the स्कॉट्स, '' जो died in 492.
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but, on a फैली निर्वचन, he थी क्रियाशील as a मिशनरी in आयरलैंड दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of the 5th century.
He is generally credited साथ होने the पहला बिशप of armagh, Primate of All Ireland.
Saint Patrick 's Day is observed on कूच 17, the तिथि of his death.
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland, as both a धार्मिक और, विशेषकर बाहर आयरलैंड, धर्मनिरपेक्ष holiday.
In the dioceses of आयरलैंड, it is दोनो a solemnity और a पावन दिन of दायित्व ; बाहर Ireland, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
Line खण्ड in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a और shorter पक्ष b, जब लगाई सटा to a वर्गाकार साथ पहलू of length a, will produce a similar golden rectangle with longer side a + b and shorter side a.
इस illustrates the संबंध.
in गणित और the कला, दो quantities हैं in the सुनहरी अनुपात if the अनुपात of the योग of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one.
The figure on the सही illustrates the ज्यामितीय संबंध.
Expressed algebraically:
where the यूनानी अक्षर फाई ( ) represents the golden ratio.
Its मान is:
The golden ratio is also called the सुनहरी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio ओरिया ) or सुनहरी mean.
Other names include extreme and mean अनुपात, medial खण्ड, दैवी proportion, दैवी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio divina ), सुनहरी proportion, golden cut, and golden number.
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to सन्निकट the सुनहरी ratio—especially in the रूप of the सुनहरी आयताकार, in जिससे the अनुपात of the longer पक्ष to the shorter is the सुनहरी ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ).
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio, सहित इसके रूप in the आयाम of a नियमित प्रस्तुतीकरण और in a सुनहरी आयताकार, जिससे can be काटें into a वर्गाकार और a छोटी आयताकार with the same aspect ratio.
The golden ratio रै भी महरूम प्रयुक्त to analyze the proportions of प्राकृतिक वस्तुएँ as खूब as man-made प्रणालियों such as financial markets, in some cases based on dubious fits to data.
North Myrtle Beach is a तटीय रिज़ॉर्ट नगर in horry काउंटी, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, United States.
It was created in 1968 from four existing municipalities उत्तर of myrtle बीच, और serves as एक of the प्राथमिक पर्यटक कस्बों साथ the ग्रैंड Strand.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 13,752 at the 2010 census.
World War i ( wwi ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest युद्धों in इतिहास.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the विरोध soon spread around the world.
On 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर that changed little until 1917.
On the पूर्वी सामने, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The युद्ध ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to fight a total war.
By the end of the युद्ध, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
the successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक छोटी states.
The League of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be factors contributing to World War II.
Camden is a city in camden काउंटी, नई जर्सी, संयुक्त राज्य.
It is the county सीट, स्तिथ आरपार the डेलावेयर नदी इससे Philadelphia.
As of the 2010 United States Census the नगर था a कुल जनसांख्यिकी of 77,344, representing a मनाही of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) इससे the 79,904 निवासियों enumerated दौरान the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, जिससे था in फेरे अस्वीकृत by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census.
Camden क्रमित as the 12th-most populous नगरपालिका in the राज्य in 2010 बाद having been ranked 10th in 2000.
Camden was originally incorporated as a city on February 13, 1828, इससे portions of the now-defunct न्यूटन township, जबकि the क्षेत्रफल थी स्टिल भाग of gloucester County.
On March 13, 1844, Camden became भाग of the newly formed Camden County.
हालांकि एकबार a thriving बीच लिये निर्माण और उद्योग, camden is शायद best known for its struggles with urban dysfunction.
Three Camden mayors have been jailed for भ्रष्टाचार, the सबसे हाल होने मिल्टन मिलान in 2000.
Since 2005 the स्कूल प्रणाली और पुलिस विभाग have महरूम संचालित by the राज्य of New Jersey ; the takeover expired in 2012.
In 2008, Camden had the highest crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent अपराधों प्रति 100,000 लोगों जबकि the नेशनल औसत थी 455 प्रति 100,000.
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 स्कूल साल और two-thirds of the विद्यार्थी ग्रैजुएट.
Two out of every five residents हैं नीचे the नेशनल poverty line.
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, elavil, tryptizol, laroxyl, saroten, sarotex, lentizol, endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त tca और रै at तनिक बराबर efficacy against depression as the newer class of SSRIs according to a study from early 2001.
As खूब as reducing depressive लक्षण, ये प्रकार of tricyclics भी आसानी migraines, tension headaches, anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms.
It is also known to reduce आक्रामकता और हिंसक behavior.
A computer is a general purpose device that can be प्रोग्रामित to carry आउट a परिमित नियत of arithmetic or logical operations.
Since a अनुक्रम of परिचालन can be readily बदला, the computer can solve more than one kind of problem.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at तनिक एक प्रसंस्करण तत्व, typically a सेंट्रल processing unit ( CPU ) and some form of memory.
The प्रसंस्करण तत्व carries आउट गणित और लॉजिक परिचालन, and a sequencing and control unit that can change the order of operations based on stored information.
परिधीय डिवाइस allow सूचना to be पुनर्प्राप्त इससे an बाह्य सोर्स, और the परिणाम of operations saved and retrieved.
The पहला इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिजिटल कंप्यूटर यहूद विकसित between 1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States.
Originally they were the size of a large रूम, consuming as much शक्ति as अनेक सौ आधुनिक personal computers ( PCs ).
in इस era mechanical एनालॉग कंप्यूटर यहूद used for military applications.
Modern कंप्यूटर आधारित on एकीकृत circuits हैं लाखो to अरबों of टाइम्स अधिक सक्षम than the early machines, and occupy a fraction of the space.
Simple computers are small पर्याप्त to अनुरूप into मोबाईल डिवाइस, और मोबाईल कंप्यूटर can be संचालित by छोटी batteries.
Personal computers in उनके विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म हैं प्रतीक of the सूचना आयु और are what most people think of as “computers.”
However, the अंतःस्थापित कंप्यूटर मिला in अनेक डिवाइस इससे mp3 खिलाड़ी to सेनानी वायुयान and from toys to industrial robots are the most numerous.
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the विवादास्पद विचार कि महिलाओं चाहिए नहीं कार्य बाहर the घर और चाहिए have अनेक children दौरान उनके reproductive years.
it रै अनेक अन्य meanings as well.
It is a फिगर of speech.
The phrase `` barefoot और गर्भवती '' थी संभवतः first used sometime before 1950.
An article from 1949 states, `` By early 1949, TWA was—in the शब्द of इसके नई अध्यक्ष, ralph S. damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Its उपयोग may तिथि as जल्दी as the 1910s.
An आलेख प्रकाशित in 1958 राज्य the phrase थी पहला used by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier.
`` Some forty years पहले, dr. hertzler उन्नत a परिकल्पना जिससे यंग महिलाओं of आज seem झुकी on proving correct. '
The तभी रास्ता to रखना a स्त्री प्रसन्न, ' he कहा, 'is to keep her barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
oakhurst is a census-designated प्लेस और unincorporated जातियाँ भीतर Ocean Township, in Monmouth County, New Jersey, United States.
As of the 2010 United राज्य जनसांख्यिकी, the cdp 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,995.
विश्वविद्यालयों of फीनिक्स स्टेडियम, खोली अगस्त 1, 2006, is a बहुउद्देशीय फ़ुटबॉल stadium located in Glendale, Arizona.
It is the home of the एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl.
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com Arena and it features the first fully retractable प्राकृतिक ग्रास playing सतह निर्मित in the संयुक्त राज्य on शीर्ष of an एयरफील्ड प्रणालियों नाले प्रणाली.
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing field to मूव to the exterior of the भवन, allowing the संपूर्ण प्राकृतिक turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium has hosted Super कटोरी xlii, और the 2011 bcs नेशनल चैंपियनशिप खेल, a खेल कि it होस्ट प्रत्येक four years, which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11, 2011.
It will again मेजबान सुपर कटोरी xlix in 2015.
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming अधिकारों in सितंबर 2006, shortly बाद the स्टेडियम had opened under the name Cardinals Stadium.
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is लागू as a कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक, और नहीं as the घर स्टेडियम of the विश्वविद्यालयों ( जिससे रै no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The stadium रै भी hosted the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इवेंट रेसलमेनिया xxvi साथ 72,219 प्रशंसक in attendance.
the इवेंट थी आयोजित in the स्टेडियम on March 28th 2010.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as Lawrence जोशुआ चेम्बरलेन, थी an अमरीकी कॉलेज प्राध्यापक इससे the राज्य of maine, जो volunteered दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध to जुड़ें the Union Army.
Although having no earlier education in military strategies, he became a highly आदरणीय और सजा संघ अधिकारी, reaching the रैंक of ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य ( और brevet प्रमुख सामान्य ).
For उसके gallantry at gettysburg, he was awarded the Medal of Honor.
He was given the honor of commanding the संघ सैनिकों at the आत्मसमर्पण रस्म लिये the infantry of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज at appomattox, Virginia.
After the war, he डाला राजनीती as a रिपब्लिकन और परोसा चार one-year terms of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine.
He served on the संकाय, और as अध्यक्ष, of उसके अल्मा मेटर, bowdoin कॉलेज.
An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length खण्ड of a खेल in कोई of a किस्में of खेल – सबसे notably क्रिकेट और बेसबॉल दौरान जिससे एक टोली कोशिशें to स्कोर जबकि the अन्य टोली कोशिशें to prevent the first from scoring.
In क्रिकेट, the पद पारी is दोनो एकवचन और बहुवचन और is सदा spelled और सुनाया with the terminal `` s ''.
In बेसबॉल और सॉफ्टबॉल, the एकवचन रूप is inning and only the plural takes an `` s ''.
In many other sports, the length of the खेल is लिखवाई by a क्लॉक और टीमों स्वैप अप्रिय और रक्षात्मक भूमिकाएँ dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item.
In baseball and cricket, however, एक टोली, कहा to be `` बल्लेबाजी '', कोशिशें to स्कोर `` रनों '' —see चलाएं ( बेसबॉल ) और चलाएं ( क्रिकेट ) —while the अन्य टोली, कहा to be `` fielding '', attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out.
The teams switch places after the fielding टोली रै succeeded in getting a फिक्स्ड क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी आउट, बनाना a clock unnecessary.
In क्रिकेट, the पद पारी is भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the खेल of एक particular player ( Smith had a poor innings, scoring only 12 ).
By extension, this term can be used in British English for लगभग कोई कार्यकलाप जिससे takes a काल of समय ( the उदार सरकारी था a शुभ पारी, लकिन आखिरकार खोया दफ्तर in 1972, or तुम 've था a मेला पारी, अभी it 's my फेरे, अर्थ `` you have spoken for long enough, now let me speak '' ).
It is also used in सन्दर्भ to किसी जो रै died at a reasonably बूढ़ा age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah, well.
John थी 89.
At least he था a शुभ पारी ).
The baseball-derived parallel to this in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी is the पद at चमगादड़.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the term पारी रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in सन्दर्भ to क्रिकेट चूंकि at तनिक 1735.
As cricket was a वयस्क, अत्यधिक व्यवस्थित खेल in the 1600s in इंग्लैण्ड, the term 's origin could well precede this first recorded usage.
The शब्द inning अर्थ 'a महफ़िल in ' is पहला recorded in 1522, and could be related.
Adenosine deaminase deficiency, भी पुकारा एडीए कमियां or ada-scid, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in fewer than एक in 100,000 सजीव births विश्वव्यापी.
It accounts for about 15 % of all cases of कठोर संयुक्त immunodeficiency ( scid ).
It is very rare, you have a 3 % मौका of getting इस gene.
ADA deficiency may be present in infancy, बाल्यकाल, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset and severity is सम्बन्धित to कुछ 29 ज्ञात genotypes संबद्ध साथ the विकार.
An example of urban poverty in इस slum in जकार्ता, Indonesia
Poverty is the state of एक जो lacks a निश्चित राशि of सामग्री possessions or money.
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the deprivation of मौलिक इंसान needs, जिससे commonly शामिल खाना, जल, स्वच्छता, कपडे, आश्रय, health care and education.
Relative poverty is defined contextually as आर्थिक असमानता in the स्थान or समाज in which people live.
For much of इतिहास, गरीबी थी माना largely अपरिहार्य as परंपरागत मोड्स of उत्पादन यहूद अपर्याप्त to दे an entire population a comfortable standard of living.
After the industrial क्रान्ति, द्रव्यमान उत्पादन in कारखानों बना माल increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
of अधिक महत्व is the modernization of कृषि, ऐसे as fertilizers, in order to provide enough yield to feed the population.
The supply of basic needs can be प्रतिबंधित by constraints on सरकारी सेवाएं ऐसे as भ्रष्टाचार, कर avoidance, कर्ज़ और ऋण conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals.
Strategies of increasing आय to मेक मौलिक needs अधिक सस्ती typically शामिल welfare, economic freedoms, and providing financial services.
Poverty reduction is a major goal and issue for many अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ऐसे as the संयुक्त Nations and the World Bank.
The World Bank estimated 1.29 अरब लोगों यहूद जीना in निरपेक्ष गरीबी in 2008.
Of these, about 400 लाख लोगों in निरपेक्ष गरीबी जिया in इण्डिया and 173 million people in China.
In USA 1 in 5 children जीवनदान in गरीबी.
In terms of percentage of regional populations, sub-Saharan अफ़्रीकी at 47 % था the उच्चतम incidence रेट of निरपेक्ष poverty in 2008.
Between 1990 और 2010, परिचय 663 लाख लोगों स्थानांतरित above the absolute poverty level.
Still, चरम गरीबी is a वैश्विक चुनौती ; it is observed in सब भाग of the संसार, सहित the developed economies.
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to नुकसानदेह प्रभाव इससे ingestion of विषाक्त substances उपस्थित in a mushroom.
These लक्षण can vary इससे पतला जठरांत्र तकलीफ to death.
the toxins उपस्थित हैं द्वितीयक metabolites उत्पादित in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
Mushroom poisoning is प्रायः the परिणाम of ingestion of जंगली मशरूम बाद misidentification of a विषाक्त mushroom as an edible species.
The most common reason for this misidentification is बंद प्रतिरूप in शर्तें of रंग और सामान्य morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species.
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon rare अवसर poisoned by खाने विषाक्त प्रजाति, despite होने खूब aware of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent mushroom poisoning, मशरूम gatherers need to be बहुत परिचित साथ the मशरूम वे intend to collect as well as with any similar-looking toxic species.
In addition, edibility of मशरूम may निर्भर on विधि of तैयारी for cooking.
collectors भी need to be खूब जागरूक कि edibility or toxicity of some species varies with geographic location.
Human height is the distance from the नीचे of the फीट to the शीर्ष of the सिर in a इंसान देह, खड़ा erect.
When populations share genetic पृष्ठभूमि और पर्यावरणीय कारकों, औसत ऊँचाई is अक्सर characteristic भीतर the group.
Exceptional ऊँचाई विभिन्नता ( around 20 % विचलन इससे औसत ) भीतर ऐसे a जनसांख्यिकी is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities.
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, environmental कारकों जैसे दीर्घकालिक कुपोषण दौरान बाल्यकाल or किशोरावस्था may खाता लिये विलम्बित विकास and/or ( in कठोर मामले ) चिह्नित reductions in वयस्क stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight कि उतरा the पहला इंसानो, अमेरिकी neil आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ एल्ड्रिन, on the चंद्रमा on जुलाई 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the पहला to कदम onto the चंद्र सतह 6 घंटों later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Armstrong spent about two and a हाफ घंटों बाहर the spacecraft, एल्ड्रिन थोड़ा कम ; और साथ वे एकत्रित of lunar material for return to Earth.
A third सदस्य of the मिशन, माइकल कॉलिन्स, piloted the कमांड spacecraft अलोन in चंद्र कक्षा जबतक आर्मस्ट्रांग and Aldrin returned to it just under a day later for the trip back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from कैनेडी स्पेस बीच in merritt द्वीप, फ्लोरिडा on जुलाई 16, अपोलो 11 थी the पांचवां मानवयुक्त मिशन of NASA 's Apollo program.
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin for the three astronauts which was the only part which उतरा वापस on धरती ; a सेवा मोड्यूल जिससे समर्थित the कमांड मोड्यूल साथ नोदन, विद्युत शक्ति, ऑक्सीजन और जल ; और a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon.
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's अपर स्टेज, the astronauts अलग the spacecraft इससे it और travelled लिये तीन days until they entered into lunar orbit.
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved into the चंद्र मोड्यूल और उतरा in the समुद्र of Tranquility.
They stayed a कुल of परिचय 21 और a half hours on the lunar surface.
बाद उठाने बंद in the अपर भाग of the चंद्र मोड्यूल और rejoining Collins in the Command Module, they returned to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24.
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience, Armstrong stepped onto the चंद्र सतह और वर्णित the इवेंट as `` एक छोटी कदम लिये [ a ] man, एक दानव छलांग लिये mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the स्पेस रेस और fulfilled a नेशनल लक्ष्य प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the लेट u.S. अध्यक्ष जॉन F. Kennedy in a speech before the United States Congress, `` before this decade is out, of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth. ''
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित क्युकी of the Second World War.
the वर्तमान champions हैं स्पेन, जो won the 2010 tournament.
The वर्तमान स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ साथ the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग नेशनल teams.
ब्राज़ील have जीती पाँच टाइम्स, और वे हैं the only team to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड, फ़्रांस, और स्पेन, साथ एक title each.
the संसार कप is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The अगला तीन संसार cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, रूस in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a पद coined in 1944 by राफेल lemkin to describe the deliberate और व्यवस्थित विनाश, in पूरे or in part, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group.
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or धार्मिक समूह, as ऐसे : हत्या सदस्यों of the समूह ; causing गंभीर bodily or दिमागी नुक़सान to सदस्यों of the समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the समूह शर्तें of जीवन, गणना to लाओ परिचय इसके शारीरिक विनाश in पूरे or in भाग ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. ''
Skulls of पीड़ितों of the rwandan नरसंहार
the प्रस्तावना to the cppcg नहीं तभी राज्य कि `` नरसंहार is a अपराधों अंतर्गत अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि, contrary to the स्पिरिट और aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और condemned by the civilized world '', but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity ''.
Determining what historical कार्यक्रम constitute a नरसंहार और जिससे हैं merely दण्ड or अमानवीय behavior is not a clear-cut matter.
in nearly प्रत्येक मामला जहाँ आरोपों of नरसंहार have परिचालित, partisans of विभिन्न पहलू have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event, often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts.
an accusation of नरसंहार is कतई नहीं लिया lightly and will almost always be controversial.
The following list of genocides और कथित genocides चाहिए be समझा in इस कॉन्टेक्स्ट और can नहीं be regarded as the final word on these subjects.
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical ड्राइव बेल्ट और the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt, a लचीली बेल्ट साथ दांत moulded onto इसके inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ), a toothed बेल्ट प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव the camshaft ( s ) भीतर an आतंरिक combustion engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a पश्चिमी संस्कृति, लकिन is भी बहकावे by देशी अमरीकी, अफ़्रीकी, एशियाई, पोलिनेशियाई, और लैटिन अमरीकी cultures.
American culture started its formation over 10,000 years ago साथ the माइग्रेशन of paleo-indians इससे एशिया into the प्रदेश कि is आज the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य.
It has इसके अपना अद्वितीय सोशल और सांस्कृतिक विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect, music, arts, social habits, cuisine, and folklore.
The United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a परिणाम of large-scale आव्रजन इससे अनेक अलग देशों throughout इसके इतिहास.
Its chief early European प्रभाव आए इससे अंग्रेज़ी, स्कॉटिश, वेल्श और आयरिश settlers of colonial America during British rule.
British culture, due to colonial ties with Britain that स्प्रेड the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा, विधिक प्रणाली और अन्य सांस्कृतिक inheritances, था a formative influence.
Other important प्रभाव आए इससे अन्य भाग of पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, विशेषकर Germany, France, and Italy.
असली तत्व भी खेल a दमदार भूमिका, such as the invention of Jeffersonian democracy.
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps the first influential domestic cultural critique by an अमरीकी और a प्रतिक्रियावादी टुकड़ा to the प्रचलित यूरोपीय सर्वसम्मति कि अमेरिका 's घरेलू मौलिकता थी विकृत.
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically, such as national holidays, uniquely American sports, military tradition, and innovations in the arts and entertainment give a दमदार भाव of नेशनल अभिमान among the जनसांख्यिकी as a पूरे.
American culture includes both conservative and liberal elements, scientific and religious प्रतिस्पर्धात्मकता, राजनैतिक structures, रिस्क लेने और फ़्री अभिव्यक्ति, भौतिकवादी और moral तत्व.
Despite निश्चित सतत वैचारिक सिद्धान्त ( e.g. व्यक्तिगत, समतावाद, और आस्था in स्वतंत्रता और लोकतंत्र ), अमरीकी culture has a variety of expressions due to its geographical scale and demographic diversity.
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some शोधकर्ताओं to categorize अमरीकी संस्कृति as a mythic पहचान ; अन्य see it as American exceptionalism.
It also शामिल तत्व कि विकसित इससे स्वदेशी अमेरिकी, और अन्य जातीय cultures—most prominently the culture of African Americans, cultures from Latin America, and Asian American cultures.
Many American cultural तत्व, विशेषकर इससे लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, have स्प्रेड आरपार the globe through modern mass media.
The United States रै प्रायः महरूम विचार of as a melting घट, लकिन शुरूआत in the लेट 1990s और जल्दी 2000s, it रुझान towards सांस्कृतिक diversity, pluralism and the image of a salad bowl instead.
Due to the extent of American culture, there are many integrated but अद्वितीय सोशल subcultures भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य.
The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, राजनैतिक अभिविन्यास और a multitude of जनसांख्यिकी विशेषताएँ ऐसे as धार्मिक पृष्ठभूमि, occupation और जातीय समूह membership.
samoan ( gagana fa'a sāmoa or gagana sāmoa — आईपीए : ) is the भाषा of the samoan आइलैंड्स, comprising the स्वतंत्र country of Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa.
It is an official language—alongside अंग्रेज़ी —in दोनो jurisdictions.
Samoan, a Polynesian language, is the पहला भाषा लिये सबसे of the समोआ आइलैंड्स ' जनसांख्यिकी of about 246,000.
With many samoan लोगों जीना in अन्य देशों, the कुल क्रमांक of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000.
The language is notable for the phonological मतभेद between औपचारिक और अनौपचारिक वाक as खूब as a ceremonial रूप used in Samoan oratory.
A glucose tolerance test is a चिकित्सा परीक्षण in जिससे ग्लूकोज is दिए और रक्त नमूने लिया afterward to determine कैसा जल्दी it is cleared from the blood.
The test is usually प्रयुक्त to परीक्षण लिये मधुमेह, इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध, और sometimes प्रतिक्रिया hypoglycemia और acromegaly, or rarer विकार of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the most commonly performed version of the परीक्षण, an मौखिक ग्लूकोज सहिष्णुता परीक्षण ( ogtt ), a मानक खुराक of ग्लूकोज is ingested by मुँह and blood levels are checked two hours later.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the सालो लिये विभिन्न उद्देश्य, साथ अलग मानक doses of ग्लूकोज, अलग रूट of प्रशासन, अलग intervals और durations of sampling, and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
`` What About Me '' is a सोंग लिखा by गैरी तुषार और frances swan, पहला अंकित by ऑस्ट्रेलियाई rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence.
It was the band 's first number-one सिंगल in ऑस्ट्रेलिया बिता छह लगातार सप्ताह on the शीर्ष ; वहीँ, it थी the second-highest selling single of 1982.
The success of the song led उन्हें to अमेरिका जहाँ it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 chart.
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a long time that it प्रबंधित to मेक billboards शीर्ष 100 पॉप singles of 1983, at # 88, a विरल feat लिये a सिंगल साथ ऐसे a कम शिखर position.
The song made an असामान्य वापसी in 1989, peaking at # 46.
On the left a मुर्गा अंडा, the अंडा सबसे commonly खाया by humans, and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different species, including birds, सरीसृपों, amphibians, और मछली, और have महरूम खाया by mankind for thousands of years.
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell, albumen ( egg white ), और vitellus ( अंडा yolk ), contained भीतर विभिन्न पतला membranes.
Popular choices for egg consumption are chicken, बतख, बटेर, roe, और caviar, लकिन the अंडा सबसे प्रायः खपत by इंसानो is the मुर्गा अंडा, by a wide margin.
Egg yolks और पूरे अंडे स्टोर significant amounts of प्रोटीन and choline, and are widely used in cookery.
Due to their protein सामग्री, the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) categorizes अंडे as meats within the Food Guide Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional मान of अंडे, वहीँ हैं कुछ संभावित स्वास्थ्य मुद्दे arising इससे egg quality, storage, and individual allergies.
Chickens और अन्य egg-laying जीव हैं widely रखा throughout the संसार, and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry.
In 2009, an estimated 62.1 लाख मीट्रिक टन of अंडे यहूद उत्पादित विश्वव्यापी इससे a कुल लेटा झुण्ड of approximately 6.4 billion hens.
There are issues of regional variation in demand and अपेक्षा, as खूब as वर्तमान debates concerning विधि of द्रव्यमान उत्पादन, साथ the यूरोपीय संघ 's ban on battery farming of chickens.
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a पेशेवर सॉकर लीग representing the sport 's highest level in the United States and Canada.
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer संघ ( u.S. सॉकर ), the लीग is रचित of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada.
Seasons presently run from March to दिसम्बर, साथ प्रत्येक टोली playing 34 खेल in the नियमित ऋतु.
Ten teams compete in the postseason mls कप playoffs culminating in the चैंपियनशिप game, the MLS Cup.
Major लीग सॉकर थी संस्थापित in 1993 as भाग of the United States ' bid to host the 1994 FIFA World Cup.
The first season took प्लेस in 1996 शुरूआत साथ टेन टीमों.
Instead of ऑपरेटिंग as an संघ of independently स्वामित्व टीमों, mls is a सिंगल entity where each team is owned and controlled by the league 's investors.
The league 's closed सदस्यता makes it एक of the संसार 's few सॉकर लीग नहीं using प्रमोशन and relegation.
The legality of कैनबिस varies इससे देश to देश.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in सबसे देशों और रै महरूम चूंकि the शुरूआत of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस, विशेषकर in उत्तर अमेरिका, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively विधिक in the नीदरलैंड्स, उत्तर कोरियाई और होता be in the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं for federal law, which governs persons in all states.
The औषधीय उपयोग of कैनबिस is विधिक in a क्रमांक of देशों, सहित Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the राज्य स्तर और कुछ राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, अलावा इससे the देशों कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना, सबसे देशों have विभिन्न दंड ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions हैं लिया अधिक seriously in कुछ देशों than अन्य in लिहाज़ to the cultivation, use, possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened दंड लिये कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस, बनाना it दंडनीय by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts उपयोग अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम लिये यंग or बारंबार उपयोक्ता, साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य और a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There are also changes in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक दिशा as in कनाडा.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in अनेक देशों और have resulted in कारावास वाक्य और लोगों खोने उनके कार्य.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in parts of East एशिया और southeast एशिया जहाँ the बिक्री of कैनबिस may सीसे to a वाक्य of जीवन in थाना or भी निष्पादन.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the आयतनी भिन्न of रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( दिल ) साथ प्रत्येक दिल ताल or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle जिससे ejects via the aortic वाल्व into the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण.
इमेजिंग of the physiology of the mammalian दिल is the आर्ट that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a विश्वव्यापी यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection भिन्न is a गणितीय उत्पाद अनुमत by हृदय imaging.
As a mathematical term, ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य of एडाल्फ Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, चुम्बकीय अनुनाद इमेजिंग और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding ischemia, जन्मजात दिल Disease and Heart Failure.
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south राज्य राजमार्ग in the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, largely in the Mojave Desert.
The southern portion of the राजमार्ग is हस्ताक्षरित as the antelope घाटी Freeway.
The route connects अंतरराज्यीय 5, or सुनहरी राज्य फ्रीवे, निकट सांता clarita और साथ u.S. Route 395 near Inyokern.
Legislatively, the रूट extends दक्षिण of i-5 to राज्य रूट 1 in the प्रशांत palisades क्षेत्रफल of लॉस एंजिल्स, however the portion south of the junction with I-5 has not been constructed.
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway सेवारत और connecting the समुदायों of सांता clarita, palmdale और lancaster साथ the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area.
The उत्तरी portion, इससे विंसेंट ( दक्षिण of palmdale ) to रूट 395, is legislatively नामित the Aerospace Highway, as the highway serves Edwards Air Force Base, once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle.
This section is rural, following the line between the hot mojave मरुस्थल और the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range.
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad, used लिये the antelope घाटी लकीर of the metrolink commuter रेल प्रणाली as खूब as a कनेक्शन between लॉस एंजिल्स और the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass.
Linked with US 395, इस सड़क connects लॉस एंजिल्स साथ ऐसे स्थान as मैमथ पहाड़, Mono Lake, Yosemite National Park and Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 थी भाग of u.S. रूट 6 prior to truncation in 1964, जब u.S. 6 थी a coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown, Massachusetts.
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from Silver Queen Road north of Rosamond to Mojave is ज्ञात as सिएरा राजमार्ग, as is the बूढ़ा रूटिंग between अंतरराज्यीय 5 और चांदी महारानी सड़क where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment.
Portions of Route 14 remain signed with names associated साथ us 6, सहित मिडलैंड ट्रेल, थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट राजमार्ग और ग्रैंड फौज of the गणतंत्र राजमार्ग.
This route is part of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया फ्रीवे और एक्सप्रेसवे प्रणाली.
Blindness is the कंडीशन of lacking विज़ुअल बोध due to physiological or neurological factors.
Various scales have been developed to describe the extent of दृष्टि घाटा और define दृष्टिहीनता.
Total दृष्टिहीनता is the पूरा कमी of रूप और विज़ुअल लाइट बोध और is clinically recorded as NLP, an abbreviation for `` no light perception. ''
Blindness is frequently used to describe कठोर विज़ुअल पुतलियों with vision.
Those described as having only light बोध have no अधिक sight than the क्षमता to बताना लाइट इससे अंधेरा और the सामान्य दिशा of a light source.
To determine which people may need खास सहायता क्युकी of उनके विज़ुअल disabilities, विभिन्न सरकारी jurisdictions have प्रतिपादित अधिक जटिल परिभाषाएं referred to as legal blindness.
In North America and most of यूरोपीय, विधिक दृष्टिहीनता is पारिभाषित as विज़ुअल तीक्ष्णता ( दृष्टि ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible.
This means that a legally blind individual would have to stand इससे an ऑब्जेक्ट to देखिए it—with corrective lenses —with the वही उपाधि of स्पष्टता as a सामान्यतः sighted person could from.
In many areas, लोगों साथ औसत तीक्ष्णता जो nonetheless have a विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड of कम than 20 डिग्री ( the norm being 180 degrees ) are also classified as being legally blind.
Approximately ten percent of those deemed legally अँधा, by कोई माप, have no vision.
The बाकी have कुछ दृष्टि, इससे लाइट बोध alone to relatively good acuity.
कम दृष्टि is sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe विज़ुअल acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases, Injuries and Causes of Death, low vision is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), लकिन बराबर to or बेहतर than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 20 डिग्री, in the better eye with best possible correction.
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 10 डिग्री, in the बेहतर नजर साथ बेहतरीन संभावित सुधार.
Blind people with undamaged eyes may still register लाइट non-visually लिये the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle.
Light सिग्नल लिये इस purpose सफर through the retinohypothalamic ट्रैक्ट और हैं नहीं प्रभावित by optic nerve damage beyond where the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl Simmons ( born December 18, 1970 ), better known by his stage names dmx और अंधेरा man x, is an अमरीकी rapper और actor.
In 1999, DMX released उसके best-selling एल्बम... और तब वहीँ थी x, जिससे featured the hit single `` Party Up ( Up in Here ) ``.
He has acted in films ऐसे as पेट, रोमियो जरूर die, निकास wounds, Cradle 2 The Grave, and Last Hour.
In 2006, he starred in the reality television series, which was primarily aired on the शर्त केबल टेलीविज़न संजाल.
In 2003, DMX published a book of उसके memoirs हकदार, e.a.r.l. : the आत्मकथा of DMX.
DMX released a mixtape the तौल in as a prelude/promotion towards उसके album Undisputed ( 2012 ).
DMX has sold over 30 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling hip-hop कलाकारों of सब time.
Professional certification, trade certification, or पेशेवर नामांकन, प्रायः पुकारा बस प्रमाणन or योग्यता, is a नामांकन अर्जित by a व्यक्ति to assure योग्यता to perform a job or task.
Not all certifications that उपयोग post-nominal अक्षर हैं an स्वीकृति of शैक्षणिक उपलब्धि, or an एजेंसी नियुक्त to safeguard the public interest.
बग बनी is a मजेदार एनिमल कार्टून अक्षर, बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ in the looney धुनें और merrie melodies series of theatrical short films produced by Warner Bros. during the Golden age of American animation.
His popularity दौरान इस era led to उसके बनने a corporate mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or rabbit who is famous for his flippant, व्यक्तित्व, a सुनाया नई यॉर्क एक्सेंट, उसके portrayal as a trickster, and his catch phrase `` Eh...
What 's up, दस्तावेज़ ? ''
( प्रायः कहा जबकि चबाने a carrot ).
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon अक्षर और is the नवीं सबसे portrayed फिल्मी व्यक्तित्व in the world.
According to his 1990 `` जीवनी '' बग बनी : 50 सालो और तभी एक धूसर हरे, बग थी born on July 27, 1940 in Brooklyn, New York in a warren under Ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
In वास्तविकता, he थी brought to जीवन by the animators और स्टाफ of लिओन schlesinger प्रोडक्शन्स ( बाद warner भाईs. cartoons ) : सहित टेक्स एवेरी, जो निर्देशित बग ' जल्दी निर्णायक छोटी A Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; Robert McKimson, who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc, who originated the voice of Bugs.
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; एकवचन mucosa ) हैं linings of ज़्यादातर endodermal उत्पत्ति, covered in epithelium, which are involved in absorption and secretion.
They line cavities that are exposed to the external पर्यावरण और आतंरिक अंगों.
They are at several places contiguous साथ स्किन : at the नथुनों, the होठ of the मुँह, the eyelids, the कानों, the genital area, and the anus.
The sticky, thick द्रव स्रावित by the श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों and glands is termed mucus.
The term mucous झिल्ली refers to जहाँ वे हैं मिला in the देह and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans penis ( head of the शिश्न ), साथ साथ the अंदर of the अग्रत्वचा और the clitoral हुड, are mucous membranes.
The urethra is भी a श्लेष्मक झिल्ली.
the स्रावित mucus फंदा the pathogens in the देह, preventing any further activities of diseases.
A master sergeant is the सैन्य रैंक लिये a वरिष्ठ non-commissioned अधिकारी in कुछ हथियारबंद forces.
Cake is a रूप of ब्रैड or bread-like खाना.
In its आधुनिक फ़ॉर्म, it is typically a मीठी baked मिठाई.
In its oldest फ़ॉर्म, cakes यहूद सामान्यतः fried breads or cheesecakes, और सामान्यतः had a disk shape.
Determining whether a दिए खाना चाहिए be वर्गीकृत as ब्रैड, केक, or पेस्ट्री can be difficult.
Modern cake, विशेषकर परत cakes, सामान्यतः contain a संयोजन of आटा, शुगर, अंडे, और मक्खन or आयल, साथ कुछ किस्में भी requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, dried or candied fruit, or extracts हैं प्रायः added, और numerous substitutions लिये the primary ingredients are possible.
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or मिठाई sauces ( जैसे पेस्ट्री मलाई ), आइस्ड साथ buttercream or अन्य icings, और सजा साथ marzipan, piped borders or candied fruit.
केक is प्रायः the मिठाई of चुनाव लिये meals at ceremonial अवसरों, विशेषकर weddings, anniversaries, and birthdays.
There are countless cake recipes ; कुछ हैं bread-like, कुछ समृद्ध और विस्तृत, और अनेक हैं सदियां old.
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor गई into केक बनाना ( विशेषकर the whisking of अंडा foams ), बेकिंग उपकरण और दिशानिर्देश have महरूम सरलीकृत so कि भी the सबसे amateur cook may bake a cake.
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) थी an अमरीकी ईसाई सिंगर, इंजीलवादी, उद्योगों, लेखक, बात दिखाएँ मेजबान, और टेलीविज़न personality.
She was शादीशुदा इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, और बाद convicted felon, Jim Bakker.
She co-hosted साथ उसे on the PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ).
She was a participant in the 2004 ऋतु of the वास्तविकता दिखाएँ the surreal Life.
Cambria is a village in Columbia काउंटी, विस्कॉन्सिन, संयुक्त राज्य.
The population was 767 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is भाग of the मैडिसन महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
Public policy is the principled guide to कार्रवाई लिया by the प्रशासनिक कार्यपालिका शाखाओं of the राज्य साथ लिहाज़ to a क्लास of मुद्दे in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs.
In general, the foundation is the pertinent national और substantial संवैधानिक विधि और implementing विधान ऐसे as the US Federal code.
Further substrates शामिल दोनो न्यायिक interpretations और regulations जिससे हैं generally authorized by legislation.
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action, नियामक उपायों, कानून, और funding प्राथमिकताएं concerning a दिए टॉपिक promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives. ''
Public policy is commonly समाविष्ट `` in constitutions, विधान acts, and judicial decisions. ''
in the संयुक्त राज्य, इस अवधारणा refers नहीं तभी to the परिणाम of नीतियों, लकिन अधिक broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions.
As an academic discipline, पब्लिक नीति is पढ़ाई by professors और विद्यार्थी at पब्लिक नीति स्कूलों of major universities throughout the country.
The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners, शोधकर्ताओं, विद्वानों, और विद्यार्थी is the संघ लिये पब्लिक नीति विश्लेषण and Management.
Digestion is the mechanical और रासायनिक विश्लेषण of खाना into छोटी components कि हैं अधिक easily अवशोषित into a blood stream, for instance.
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a विश्लेषण of विशाल खाना अणुओं to छोटी ones.
When food enters the मुँह, पाचन of the खाना starts by the कार्रवाई of mastication, a रूप of mechanical digestion, and the wetting contact of saliva.
लार, a द्रव स्रावित by the salivary ग्रंथियों, contains salivary amylase, an enzyme which starts the digestion of starch in the food.
After undergoing mastication और मंड पाचन, the खाना होगा be in the form of a small, round slurry mass called a bolus.
It will then travel bas the ग्रासनाल और into the पेट by the कार्रवाई of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the पेट starts प्रोटीन पाचन.
Gastric juice मुख्यतः contains हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड और pepsin.
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall, mucus is स्रावित by the पेट, providing a slimy परत कि अधिनियमों as a शील्ड विरूद्ध the damaging प्रभाव of the रसायन.
At the same time protein digestion is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, जिससे हैं लहरें of muscular contractions कि मूव साथ the पेट wall.
This allows the द्रव्यमान of खाना to further mix with the digestive enzymes.
After some time ( typically an hour or two in इंसानो, 4–6 घंटों in कुत्तो, somewhat shorter अवधि in हाउस बिल्लियों ), the resulting मोटा द्रव is called chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum जहाँ it mixes साथ digestive एंजाइमों इससे the pancreas, and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues.
When the chyme is fully पचता, it is अवशोषित into the blood.
95 % of अवशोषण of nutrients occurs in the छोटी intestine.
Water and minerals are reabsorbed वापस into the रक्त in the कोलन ( विशाल आंत ) जहाँ the ph is थोड़ा अम्लीय परिचय 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some vitamins, such as biotin और विटामिन k ( k2mk7 ) उत्पादित by जीवाणु in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon.
Waste material is eliminated इससे the मलाशय during defecation.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी किंग of इंग्लैण्ड इससे 21 अप्रैल 1509 जबतक उसके मौत.
He was lord, and later king, of Ireland, as well as continuing the नाममात्र अर्जी by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the किंगडम of फ़्रांस.
हेनरी थी the दूसरी monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six marriages, Henry VIII is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका in the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक Church.
हेनरी 's struggles साथ रोम led to the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार, the विच्छेद of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a आस्तिक in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं, भी बाद उसके excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximillian i, और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल, well-equipped फौज, लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable वित्तीय cost.
Maximillian, for his part, प्रयुक्त the अंग्रेज़ी आक्रमण to उसके अपना ends, और इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's ability to defeat the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession लिये हेनरी, जो invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the महत्वपूर्ण नगर of boulogne, लकिन again the पावन रोमन सम्राट, चार्ल्स v, समर्थित हेनरी only as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, educated and संपन्नता किंग, और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` एक of the सबसे charismatic शासकों to बैठना on the अंग्रेज़ी सिंहासन ''.
Besides ruling with निरपेक्ष शक्ति, he भी सगाई खुद as an लेखक and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the गुलाब – led to the दो बाते लिये जिससे हेनरी is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became रुग्ण मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is अक्सर characterised in उसके बाद जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) हैं an afro-cuban percussion instrument.
The drums are of अलग आकार : the larger ढोल is पुकारा in स्पेनी the hembra ( मादा ) and the smaller the macho ( male ).
They are membranophones, or यंत्र कि बनाएँ ध्वनि by a vibration of a stretched membrane.
Different religious groups include different किताबे in उनके biblical canons, in varying आदेश, और sometimes divide or combine किताबे, or चरितार्थ अतिरिक्त material into canonical books.
Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six किताबे of the प्रोटोस्टेंट canon to the eighty-one किताबे of the ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon.
The Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four किताबे विभाजित into तीन भाग ; the पाँच किताबे of the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '' or `` law '' ), the Nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ), and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
The first part of Christian Bibles is the Old वसीयत, जिससे contains, at न्यूनतम, the twenty-four किताबे of the यहूदी बाइबल विभाजित into thirty-nine किताबे और ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible.
The Catholic Church and Eastern Christian churches भी थाम निश्चित deuterocanonical किताबे और passages to be भाग of the बूढ़ा वसीयत canon.
The second part is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven books ; the चार canonical gospels, अधिनियमों of the रसूलों, twenty-one epistles or अक्षर और the किताब of Revelation.
The Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox और पूर्वी कैथोलिक चर्च may have नाबालिग differences in their lists of accepted books.
The सूची दिए यहाँ लिये ये चर्च is the सबसे समावेशी : if at तनिक एक पूर्वी church accepts the book it is included here.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत, साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing पचास छोटी, श्वेत, five-pointed सितारों arranged in नौ ऑफसेट आड़ा पंक्ति of छह सितारों ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ पंक्ति of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका और the 13 धारियाँ represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames for the flag शामिल the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '', `` बूढ़ा महिमा ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
Dred Scott v. sandford,, भी ज्ञात as the dred स्कॉट निर्णय, थी a लैंडमार्क decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.
It made दो प्रमुख rulings.
The first ruling was कि african-americans यहूद नहीं नागरिकों, और इसलिए था no खड़ा to sue in federal court.
The second ruling was that the संघीय सरकारी था no शक्ति to विनियमित गुलामी in कोई territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the United States.
Given the first ruling, most scholars and अनेक समकालीन राजनैतिक आंकड़े ( सहित the नेतृत्व of the then-new रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ) माना कि the दूसरी सत्ताधारी was not binding precedent, but mere dictum.
The rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied कि लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent ( दोनो स्लेव और फ़्री ) यहूद नहीं सुरक्षित by the संविधान और यहूद not U.S. citizens.
Since ड्योढ़ी of the 14th amendment to the u.S. संविधान, दोनो rulings हैं superseded and no longer valid precedent.
Nonetheless, the case retains ऐतिहासिक significance as it is widely regarded as the worst निर्णय ever made by the Supreme Court.
The opinion of the अदालत, लिखा by मुख्य इंसाफ रोजर B. taney, stirred debate.
The decision was 7–2, and every इंसाफ besides taney लिखा a पृथक concurrence or dissent.
For the first time चूंकि marbury v. मैडिसन, the अदालत आयोजित an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस to be unconstitutional.
Dred स्कॉट, an african-american स्लेव, था पूछा a संयुक्त राज्य सर्किट अदालत to पुरस्कार उसे उसके स्वतंत्रता क्युकी he और उसके निपुण था resided in a राज्य ( इलिनोइस ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned.
Chief Justice Roger Taney, writing for the court, आयोजित कि स्कॉट, as a व्यक्ति of अफ़्रीकी ancestry, थी नहीं a नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य और इसलिए था no right to sue in federal court.
This holding was contrary to the अभ्यास of numerous राज्य at the समय, विशेषकर फ़्री राज्य, जहाँ फ़्री अश्वेतों did in fact enjoy the rights of citizens, such as the right to vote and hold public office.
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum, the Court went on to hold that Congress had no authority to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories क्युकी स्लेव हैं निजी प्रॉपर्टी और the पांचवां amendment to the संविधान protects प्रॉपर्टी स्वामी विरूद्ध पिछडे of उनके property without due process of law.
in reaching इस निर्णय, taney था hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the United States, but it had the opposite effect.
The decision was fiercely debated आरपार the देश, as शायद best exemplified by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham Lincoln, the second-ever रिपब्लिकन nominee लिये अध्यक्ष, थी समर्थ to जीत the अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank.
the निर्णय निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in the समय of राज्य secession और the सिविल युद्ध, हालांकि it is चरम to say the decision `` caused '' the war.
The decision is acknowledged for the influential भूमिका it निभाई in altering the नेशनल राजनैतिक लैंडस्केप : it is credited साथ शुभारंभ अब्राहम lincoln’s नेशनल political career and ultimately allowing for his election.
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case, the Court stated in the slaughter-house मामले कि at तनिक एक भाग of it था already महरूम overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868, जिससे begins by stating, `` सब व्यक्तियों born or देशीयकृत in the संयुक्त राज्य, और विषय to the क्षेत्राधिकार thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. ''
To जिससे the अदालत noted:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is, कि it puts at बाकी दोनो the सवाल जिससे we stated to have been the subject of differences of opinion.
It declares that persons may be नागरिकों of the संयुक्त राज्य बगैर लिहाज़ to उनके नागरिकता of a particular राज्य, और it overturns the dred स्कॉट निर्णय by making all persons born within the United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States.
वहीँ हैं दर्जनों of पड़ोस in Columbus, Ohio.
Some हैं मुश्किल to define, as वे encompass विशाल क्षेत्रों विकसित at अलग times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them.
Borders can also change based on लोकप्रिय समझना of the क्षेत्रफल, as खूब as the whims of the निवासियों.
This आलेख उपयोग आंकड़ा इससे the datasourcecolumbus वेब साईट, spotcrime.com, HelloColumbus.com, as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas.
Excerpts and border information are drawn directly इससे the प्रमुख आलेख.
A biologist is a scientist जो अध्ययन जीना जीवों और उनके relationship to their environment.
Biologists शामिल in मौलिक शोध attempt to discover underlying mechanisms कि govern how organisms work.
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve चिकित्सा, औद्योगिक or agricultural प्रक्रियाओं.
Martinus विलेम beijerinck, a वनस्पतिशास्त्री और microbiologist
Base कूद इससे a चट्टान in a wingsuit.
BASE jumping, also sometimes written as B.A.S.E. jumping, is an activity where भागीदार जम्प इससे फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ और उपयोग a पैराशूट to ब्रेक उनके पतन.
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for four श्रेणी of फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ इससे जिससे एक can जम्प : इमारतें, एन्टेना, spans ( पुलों ), and earth ( cliffs ).
The अंग्रेजों shorthair is a domesticated बिल्ली जिनकी सुविधाएँ make it a popular breed in cat shows.
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's शासी परिषद of the बिल्ली फैंसी ( gccf ) चूंकि 2001, जब it overtook the Persian breed.
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team, commonly ज्ञात as the संयुक्त राज्य मेन 's नेशनल बास्केट टोली, represents the संयुक्त राज्य of America in international men 's basketball.
The USA is the most successful टोली in अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिता, जीतना medals in सब सत्रह ओलम्पिक tournaments it has entered, coming away with fourteen golds.
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as टीमों in अगस्त 2010—the 1960 टोली, जिससे प्रदर्शित छह हॉल of famers ( 4 खिलाड़ी, 2 कोच ), और the 1992 `` सपना टोली '', featuring 14 हॉल of famers ( 11 खिलाड़ी, 3 coaches ).
the संयुक्त राज्य is फिलहाल क्रमित पहला in the FIBA World Rankings.
Traditionally composed of amateur खिलाड़ी, a 1989 नियम बदलें by fiba अनुमत यूएसए बास्केट to फ़ील्ड टीमों with professional players.
The पहला ऐसे टोली, ज्ञात as the `` सपना टोली '', जीती the gold medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, playing in the final against Croatia.
With the परिचय of पेशेवर, the टोली थी समर्थ to चिंगारी a दूसरी run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988.
A team of professional खिलाड़ी competed at the 1994 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप, finishing पहला.
In 1996, 2000, 2008, और 2012 the यूएसए again captured सुनहरा medals.
Facing increased competition, the USA विफल to जीत a पदक at the 2002 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप, finishing sixth.
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost three games on its way to a bronze medal, a record that represented more नुकसान in a सिंगल साल than the देश 's ओलम्पिक टीमों था suffered in सब पिछला olympiads संयुक्त.
Determined to put an समाप्त to ये असफलताओं, यूएसए बास्केट initiated a long-term प्रोजेक्ट aimed at creating better, more cohesive teams.
The USA won its first seven खेल at the 2006 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप in जापानी पहले खोने विरूद्ध यूनानियों in the semi-finals, समाप्ति the प्रतियोगिता with the bronze medal.
The USA won gold two years बाद, हालांकि, at the 2008 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक साथ a प्रबल प्रदर्शन.
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA संसार चैंपियनशिप, जहाँ despite क्षेत्ररक्षण a रोस्टर featuring no खिलाड़ी इससे the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली, the यूएसए किया not lose a single game en route to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal.
The USA continued this streak of dominance by going अपराजित और capturing सुनहरा एकबार अधिक at the 2012 गर्मियाँ Olympics.
the स्टीलर्स सुपर Bowl XL ring
Joe Theismann 's सुपर कटोरी रिंग ( सही )
The Super Bowl ring is an पुरस्कार in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग दिए to the विजेता of the लीग 's सालाना World Championship game, the Super Bowl.
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself, the सुपर कटोरी रिंग offers a collectible memento लिये the वास्तविक खिलाड़ी और टोली सदस्यों to रखना लिये themselves to symbolize the विजय.
चित्र प्रर्दशित the छह सबसे आम speleothems with labels.
to दृश्य लेबल्स.
The Witch 's उंगली in the carlsbad caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` छोड़ने, trickling '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem कि उदय इससे the मंजिल of a चूना गुफा due to the टपकता of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate.
This stalagmite formation occurs तभी अंतर्गत निश्चित ph शर्तें भीतर the भूमिगत cavern.
The corresponding formation on the छत of a गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalactite.
If ये formations grow साथ, the result is known as a column.
The हॉल of दिग्गज in the carlsbad Caverns
stalagmites चाहिए सामान्यतः नहीं be छुआ, चूंकि the चट्टान buildup is formed by खनिज precipitating आउट of the जल समाधान onto the old surface ; skin oils can alter the surface where the mineral water will cling, thus affecting the growth of the formation.
Oils and dirt from human सम्पर्क can भी दाग the गठन और बदलें इसके रंग permanently.
Similar structures can also form in लावा tubes, संबद्ध साथ कुछ प्रकार of lavacicles, हालांकि the यांत्रिकी of गठन is very different.
Stalactites and stalagmites can भी रूप on कंक्रीट ceilings और floors, हालांकि वे रूप much अधिक rapidly there than in the natural cave environment.
The largest stalagmite in the संसार is ऊँची और is स्तिथ in the गुफा of cueva मार्टिन Infierno, Cuba.
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran, approximately from the ancient city of Bishapur, in the shapur गुफा on the चौथी of पाँच बरामदा स्टैंड the 3rd सदी ce प्रतिमा of Shapur I, second ruler of the Sassanid Empire.
The statue, carved from एक stalagmite, is nearly ऊँची.
How I मिले अपना माँ is an अमरीकी sitcom कि premiered on CBS on September 19, 2005.
The show was निर्मित by क्रेग थामस और कार्टर Bays.
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030, जब टेड mosby ( voiced by bob saget ) gathers उसके बेटी ( lyndsy fonseca ) और son ( David Henrie ) to tell them the story of how he met their mother.
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single, 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends from wesleyan विश्वविद्यालयों, मार्शल eriksen ( जेसन सेगल ), a विधि छात्र, और लिली एल्ड्रिन ( alyson हनिंगन ), a किंडरगार्टन टीचर, जो have महरूम डेटिंग for almost nine years when Marshall proposes.
Their engagement causes Ted to सोचो परिचय ढूंढना उसके अपना आत्मा mate, much to the disgust of उसके dost बार्नी stinson ( neil पैट्रिक हैरिस ), a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job.
And thus, Ted begins his ढूंढें लिये उसके पूर्ण mate, और meets रोबिन scherbatsky ( कोबी स्मल्डर्स ), whom he also befriends.
The 100th episode of कैसा i मिले अपना माँ aired on जनवरी 11, 2010.
On December 21, 2012, the श्रेणी was renewed for a ninth season.
On January 30, 2013, it थी घोषित कि ऋतु 9 होगा be इसके फाइनल ऋतु.
Gringo (,, ) is a slang Spanish और पुर्तगाली शब्द प्रयुक्त in ibero-america, to denote विदेशियों, प्रायः इससे the United States.
The term can be लागू to किसी जो is दरअसल a foreigner, or it can denote a strong association or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture.
In Spanish it does नहीं have a ऋणात्मक connotation.
Roger axtell, a सफर तहज़ीब विशेषज्ञ, टीप कि `` [ t ] he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word.
It is कठबोली लकिन is अपमानजनक तभी in its use and context. ''
The word was प्रयुक्त in स्पेन long पहले it crossed the अटलांटिक to denote विदेशी, non-native speakers of Spanish.
The great white shark, Carcharodon carcharias, also known as the great white, श्वेत सूचक, श्वेत शार्क, or श्वेत मौत, is a प्रजाति of विशाल lamniform शार्क जिससे can be मिला in the तटीय सतह waters of सब the major oceans.
The great white shark is मुख्यतः ज्ञात लिये इसके आकार, साथ the largest individuals ज्ञात to have approached or exceeded in length, and in weight.
This shark पहुँच इसके परिपक्वता around 15 सालो of आयु और can have a life span of over 30 years.
The great white शार्क is arguably the संसार 's largest ज्ञात extant macropredatory मछली, और is एक of the primary predators of marine mammals.
It is also ज्ञात to शिकार upon a किस्में of अन्य समुद्री पशु, including fish and seabirds.
It is the only known surviving प्रजाति of इसके genus carcharodon, और is क्रमित पहला in having the most attacks on humans.
The IUCN list the great white shark as a vulnerable species, जबकि it is शामिल in परिशिष्ट ii of cites.
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley and the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर फिल्मी by स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग चित्रित the ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क as a `` ferocious man eater ``.
In वास्तविकता, इंसानो हैं नहीं the पसन्दीदा शिकार of the great white shark.
The संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां हैं the सैन्य शक्तियां of the United States of America.
They consist of the फौज, नेवी, समुद्री corps, एयर फ़ोर्स, और Coast Guard.
The U.S. has a strong परंपरा of civilian कंट्रोल of the military.
The President is the military 's overall head, and helps form military policy साथ the u.S. विभाग of रक्षा ( dod ), a संघीय कार्यपालिका विभाग, एक्टिंग as the प्रिंसिपल अंग by which military policy is carried out.
The DoD is headed by the सचिव of रक्षा, जो is a civilian और Cabinet member.
The Defense Secretary is second in the सैन्य 's कड़ी of कमांड, बस नीचे the अध्यक्ष, और serves as the प्रिंसिपल सहायक to the President in all DoD-related matters.
To coordinate military action with diplomacy, the अध्यक्ष रै an सलाहकार नेशनल सुरक्षा परिषद headed by a National Security Advisor.
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint Chiefs of स्टाफ, जिससे शामिल the सिर of प्रत्येक of the रक्षा विभाग 's सेवा शाखाओं as खूब as the मुख्य of the National Guard Bureau.
Leadership is provided by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त chiefs of Staff and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The कमांडेंट of the coast गार्ड is नहीं a सदस्य of the संयुक्त Chiefs of Staff.
All of the branches work together during operations and joint missions, under the एकीकृत combatant कमांड, अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the सचिव of रक्षा साथ the exception of the Coast Guard.
The coast गार्ड जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the प्रशासन of the विभाग of मातृभूमि सुरक्षा और receives its operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security.
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the विभाग of the नेवी by the अध्यक्ष or कॉंग्रेस दौरान a समय of war.
All five armed सेवाएं हैं among the सात uniformed सेवाएं of the संयुक्त राज्य ; the अन्य हैं the u.S. पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य सेवा commissioned corps and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps.
From the time of its inception, the military निभाई a निर्णायक भूमिका in the इतिहास of the United States.
A sense of national unity and identity was forged as a परिणाम of विजय in the पहला barbary युद्ध और the दूसरी barbary War.
Even so, the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military force and not until the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii किया a विशाल खड़ा फौज become officially स्थापित.
The National Security Act of 1947, adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset, created the आधुनिक u.S. सैन्य फ्रेमवर्क ; the अधिनियम मिलाया previously cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध और the विभाग of the नेवी into the नेशनल सैन्य स्थापना ( renamed the विभाग of रक्षा in 1949 ), headed by the सचिव of रक्षा ; और निर्मित the विभाग of the Air Force and National Security Council.
The U.S. military is one of the largest militaries in शर्तें of क्रमांक of कर्मियों.
It draws its manpower from a large pool of सशुल्क स्वयंसेवक ; हालांकि conscription रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in the पास्ट in विभिन्न times of both war and peace, it has not been used since 1972.
As of 2013, the u.S. खर्च परिचय $ 554.2 अरब annually to निधि इसके सैन्य शक्तियां, और appropriates approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations.
Put together, the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 प्रतिशत of the संसार 's सैन्य expenditures.
The U.S. Armed Forces as a whole possess large quantities of advanced and शक्तिशाली उपकरण, साथ साथ फैली अवस्थिति of शक्तियां around the संसार, giving उन्हें significant सामर्थ्य in both defense and power projection.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's राय और विचार using एक 's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो is willing to प्राप्त उन्हें.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, लकिन शामिल कोई अधिनियम of seeking, receiving और imparting सूचना or विचार, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of वाक is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं, as साथ मानहानि, बदनामी, obscenity, राजद्रोह ( सहित, लिये उदाहरण inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of information that is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of अभिव्यक्ति is पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों विधि in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस सही shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to तलाश, प्राप्त और impart सूचना और विचार of सब kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in लिखने or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` खास कर्तव्य और जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions जहाँ it is मिला to कारण धार्मिक ठोकर, ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों जातिगत और धार्मिक Hatred Act 2006.
The बिग बंग सिद्धान्त लोगो.
The Big Bang Theory is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक lorre और Bill Prady.
Like the name of the श्रेणी itself, साथ the एक्सेप्शन of the पहला episode— '' पायलट '' —episode शीर्षक of the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त सदा प्रारंभ साथ `` the '' और resemble the नाम of a वैज्ञानिक principle, सिद्धान्त or experiment, whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk.
, 133 एपीसोड have aired.
The Big Bang Theory has been नवीनीकृत लिये a सातवाँ ऋतु.
Dwight David `` Ike '' आइज़नहावर ( सुनाया, ; अक्तूबर 14, 1890 – कूच 28, 1969 ) was the 34th President of the United States from 1953 until 1961.
He had previously been a five-star general in the United राज्य फौज दौरान संसार युद्ध ii और परोसा as परम् कमांडर of the अलाइड शक्तियां in यूरोपीय ; he था जिम्मेदारी लिये नियोजन और supervising the आक्रमण of उत्तर अफ़्रीकी in आपरेशन मशाल in 1942–43 and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front.
In 1951, he became the first परम् कमांडर of नाटो.
आइज़नहावर थी of पेन्सिलवेनिया डच ancestry और थी reared in a विशाल परिवार in कान्सास by अभिभावक साथ a robust work ethic and religious background.
As one of six sons, he was conditioned by a प्रतिस्पर्धी माहौल जिससे instilled self-reliance.
He attended और ग्रैजुएट इससे वेस्ट पाइंट और बाद शादीशुदा and had two sons.
After World War II, आइज़नहावर परोसा as फौज मुख्य of स्टाफ अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष हैरी S. ट्रूमैन, तब assumed the पोस्ट of अध्यक्ष at Columbia University.
Eisenhower entered the 1952 अध्यक्षीय रेस as a रिपब्लिकन to काउंटर the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft and to crusade against `` Communism, Korea and corruption ''.
He won by a भूस्खलन, defeating डेमोक्रेट adlai stevenson और समाप्ति दो decades of the New Deal Coalition.
In the first year of his presidency, Eisenhower अपदस्थ the नेता of इरान in the 1953 ईरानी तख्तापलट d'état और प्रयुक्त नाभिकीय threats to conclude the Korean War with China.
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the funding for conventional military शक्तियां ; the लक्ष्य थी to रखना दबाव on the सोवियत संघ और reduce संघीय deficits.
In 1954, Eisenhower first articulated the domino सिद्धान्त in उसके वर्णन of the threat प्रस्तुत by the spread of communism.
The Congress agreed to his निवेदन in 1955 लिये the formosa रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे सक्रिय उसे to prevent चाइनीज कम्युनिस्ट आक्रामकता विरूद्ध चाइनीज राष्ट्रवादियों और स्थापित the u.S. policy of defending Taiwan.
When the Soviets शुभारम्भ sputnik in 1957, he था to खेल catch-up in the space race.
Eisenhower forced Israel, the uk, और फ़्रांस to समाप्त उनके आक्रमण of मिश्र दौरान the स्वेज संकट of 1956.
In 1958, he भेजा 15,000 us सैनिकों to लेबनान to prevent the pro-western government from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution.
Near the end of his term, his efforts to set up a समिट बैठक साथ the soviets collapsed क्युकी of the u-2 घटना.
On the domestic front, he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed to the end of mccarthyism by खुलकर invoking the आधुनिक विस्तारित संस्करण of कार्यपालिका privilege.
he वरना बाएँ सबसे राजनैतिक कार्यकलाप to his Vice President, Richard Nixon.
He was a moderate रूढ़िवादी जो जारी नई सौदे एजेंसियों and expanded Social Security.
Among his enduring innovations, he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ), which led to the internet, among many invaluable आउटपुट ; the नेशनल aeronautics और स्पेस प्रशासन ( नासा ), ड्राइविंग शांतिपूर्ण डिस्कवरी in स्पेस ; the स्थापना of दमदार विज्ञान शिक्षा via the नेशनल रक्षा शिक्षा अधिनियम ; और प्रोत्साहित शांतिपूर्ण उपयोग of नाभिकीय शक्ति via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act.
In social policy, he भेजा संघीय सैनिकों to छोटी चट्टान, अरकंसास, लिये the पहला समय चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण to enforce संघीय अदालत orders to desegregate public schools.
He also signed civil rights legislation in 1957 और 1960 to protect the सही to vote.
He implemented desegregation of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां in दो सालो और made five appointments to the Supreme Court.
He was the first term-limited अध्यक्ष in accordance साथ the 22nd amendment.
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful ones for the most part and देखी considerable आर्थिक समृद्धि मगर लिये a शार्प मंदी in 1958–59.
Eisenhower is प्रायः क्रमित अत्यधिक among the u.S. Presidents.
Air Force One is the official air traffic control call चिह्न of a संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स वायुयान carrying the अध्यक्ष of the United States.
In common parlance the पद refers to those एयर फ़ोर्स वायुयान specifically designed, निर्मित, और प्रयुक्त लिये the purpose of transporting the president.
The अध्यक्षीय वायुयान is a prominent प्रतीक of the अमरीकी presidency and its power.
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the President arose in 1943, जब officials of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज एयर शक्तियां – the पूर्ववर्ती to the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स – became चिंतित साथ relying on वाणिज्यिक एयरलाइंस to transport the President.
A C-87 Liberator Express was reconfigured लिये उपयोग as a अध्यक्षीय हस्तांतरण ; however, it थी अस्वीकृत by the रहस्य सेवा amid चिंताएं over the aircraft 's safety record.
a c-54 skymaster थी तब परिवर्तित लिये अध्यक्षीय उपयोग ; इस वायुयान, उतावले the पवित्र गाय, transported अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to the Yalta Conference in February 1945, and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman.
the `` एयर फ़ोर्स एक '' कॉल चिह्न थी निर्मित बाद a 1953 घटना दौरान जिससे a उड़ान carrying अध्यक्ष Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign.
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the creation of the presidential fleet, सहित दो बोइंग 707s introduced in the 1960s और 1970s, क्रमशः ; चूंकि 1990, the अध्यक्षीय बेड़े रै consisted of दो बोइंग vc-25as – specifically विन्यस्त, highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft.
The Air Force is looking into replacing the दो vc-25 वायुयान साथ तीन बदलना वायुयान beginning in 2017.
A wedding anniversary is the वर्षगांठ of the तिथि a विवाह took प्लेस.
Traditional names मौजूद लिये सबसे of उन्हें : लिये उदाहरण, 50 सालो of विवाह is पुकारा a `` सुनहरी wedding anniversary '' or simply a `` golden anniversary ''.
a स्कैनर साथ duplexing स्वचालित Document Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one मुद्रक, फैक्स मशीने, photocopiers और scanners, an स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or adf is a विशेषता जिससे takes अनेक पृष्ठों और फ़ीड्स the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier, allowing the user to scan, and thereby copy, print, or fax, multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page.
सबसे copiers allow स्कैनिंग on the फ्लैटबेड or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a document feeder.
The vast majority of fax मशीने have an adf, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines, some fax यंत्र स्वामी उपयोग the फैक्स यंत्र as a स्कैनर, faxing multi-page documents to themselves.
Document feeders are described by गति, in पृष्ठों प्रति मिनट or ppm, और क्षमता, प्रायः in a दायरा from 10 sheets to 200.
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) स्कैनिंग : a reversing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or radf scans एक पक्ष of a पेज, तब flips it और scans the अन्य पक्ष.
A duplexing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or dadf scans दोनो पहलू in one pass.
The advantage of the dadf is तेज़ गति लिये two-sided originals.
radfs और dadfs हैं रेटेड in बिंब प्रति मिनट ( ipm ), the क्रमांक of पहलू they can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational और शैक्षणिक जटिल located in Dallas, Texas ( USA ).
The complex is पंजीकृत as a डलास लैंडमार्क, नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क और is घर to नौ संग्रहालय, छह प्रदर्शन सुविधाएं, a लैगून, और the largest Ferris wheel in North America.
Many of the buildings on the complex were constructed लिये the टेक्सास centennial exposition in 1936 जिससे खींचा over six million visitors.
Most of the buildings built for the exposition still जीवित और it is पहचाना as a significant उदाहरण of Art Deco architecture.
Fair पार्क रै महरूम designated a ग्रेट प्लेस in अमेरिका by the American Planning Association.
The American Planning Association ( APA ) “is an स्वतंत्र, not-for-profit शैक्षणिक संगठन that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
the ग्रेट स्थान in अमरीकी कार्यक्रम helps to celebrate क्षेत्रों with “exemplary character, quality, and planning.”
होने designated as a ग्रेट प्लेस in अमेरिका, Fair Park was one of only ten cities chosen in 2011.
सैन जोस ( ; स्पेनी : st. जोसेफ ) is the third-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the tenth-largest in the u.S., और the काउंटी सीट of सांता क्लारा काउंटी which is located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay.
San Jose is the largest नगर भीतर सिलिकॉन घाटी, जिससे is a प्रमुख घटक of the वृहद सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, a प्रदेश of 8.4 million people and the fifth largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States.
It is the largest नगर in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
San Jose was founded on November 29, 1777, as el pueblo de सैन जोस de guadalupe, the पहला civilian कस्बा in the स्पेनी उपनिवेश of नुएवा California, which later became Alta California.
The city served as a farming community to support स्पेनी सैन्य संस्थापना at सैन फ्रांसिस्को and Monterey.
When California gained statehood in 1850, सैन जोस परोसा as इसके पहला capital.
After more than 150 years as a small farming city, San Jose and the surrounding सांता क्लारा घाटी became the पिछला ( और largest ) संलग्न क्षेत्रफल of अविकसित जमीन surrounding the San Francisco Bay.
San Jose experienced increased माँग लिये आवास इससे सैनिको और दिग्गजों returning from World War II.
San जोस तब जारी इसके आक्रामक विस्तार दौरान the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land area.
The rapid growth of the high-technology और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स उद्योग further त्वरित the परिवर्तन इससे an agricultural center, to an urbanized metropolitan area.
By the 1990s, San Jose 's location within the booming लोकल प्रौद्योगिकी उद्योग अर्जित the नगर इसके उपनाम, पूंजी of सिलिकॉन Valley.
San Jose now maintains वैश्विक नगर औकात और is the largest नगर in the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in शर्तें of जनसांख्यिकी, जमीन क्षेत्रफल, और औद्योगिक development.
The U.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो reported the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census.
As of April 2013, the अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of San Jose was 984,000.
San Jose, along with the Santa क्लारा घाटी, अनुभवी परिचय हाफ a सदी of spectacular suburban sprawl, साथ विशेषताएँ of तीव्र शहरी similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern California.
The city has taken definite कदम to avoid बनने `` l.A. उत्तर ''.
However, the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by उपायों ऐसे as जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व और पब्लिक पारगमन सुरक्षा, निवेश, and ridership.
Europe depicted by Antwerp cartographer अब्राहम ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent चूंकि it थी पहला आबादी in प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स to उपस्थित, साथ the पहला होमो sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC.
The earliest settlers to प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय came during the paleolithic era.
the आगमन of कृषि around 7000 BC ushered in the neolithic age.
Neolithic Europe lasted लिये 4000 सालो, अतिव्यापी साथ metal-using संस्कृतियों कि धीरे स्प्रेड throughout the continent.
technological अग्रिम दौरान the प्रागैतिहासिक आयु tended to arrive इससे the Middle East, spreading gradually to the northwest.
Some of the best-known सभ्यताओं of प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय यहूद मिनोआई और माइसीनियाई, जिससे flourished दौरान the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC.
The period known as शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता began साथ the वृद्धि of the city-states of Ancient Greece.
Greek influence reached इसके zenith अंतर्गत the expansive साम्राज्य of सिकंदर the Great, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern and western यूरोपीय यहूद वर्चस्व by the la tène संस्कृति, a precursor to the Celts.
Rome, a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC, would grow to become the रोमन गणतंत्र in 509 bc और होता सफल यूनानी संस्कृति as the प्रबल भूमध्यसागरीय civilization.
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the गणतंत्र into the रोमन साम्राज्य.
The empire थी बाद विभाजित by the सम्राट diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires.
During the later years of the Roman Empire, the Germanic peoples of उत्तरी यूरोपीय grew in शक्ति और दोहराया हमले led to the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in ad 476, a तिथि जिससे traditionally marks the समाप्त of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages.
During the मध्य आयु, the पूर्वी रोमन साम्राज्य बच, हालांकि आधुनिक इतिहासकारों refer to this state as the Byzantine Empire.
In Western Europe, Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in the remnants of the पूर्व पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य और स्थापित kingdoms और empires of उनके own.
Of all of the germanic peoples, the franks होता वृद्धि to a स्थिति of आधिपत्य over पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, the frankish Empire reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800.
Francia was divided into several parts ; West francia होता evolve into the किंगडम of फ़्रांस, जबकि ईस्ट francia होता evolve into the पावन रोमन Empire, a precursor to modern Germany.
The British Isles were the साईट of अनेक large-scale migrations.
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the काल of रोमन ब्रिटेन, और जब the romans abandoned the अंग्रेजों isles दौरान the 400s, लहरें of germanic anglo-saxons migrated to दक्षिणी ब्रिटेन और स्थापित a श्रेणी of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927.
During this काल, the किंगडम of कैंडल और किंगडम of हंगेरियाई ( 1000–1945 ) यहूद व्यवस्थित as well.
The viking आयु, a काल of migrations of scandinavian peoples, वर्चस्व the period from the late 700s to the middle 1000s.
Chief among the Viking states was the साम्राज्य of cnut the ग्रेट, a डैनिश नेता जो होता become किंग of इंग्लैण्ड, डेनमार्क, and Norway.
The Normans, a Viking people who settled in Northern France and founded the Duchy of normandy, होता have a significant प्रभाव on अनेक भाग of यूरोपीय, इससे the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily.
Another Scandinavian people, the Rus ' people, would go on to मिला kievan rus ', an जल्दी राज्य जिससे थी a precursor लिये the आधुनिक देश of Russia.
As the viking आयु खींचा to a बंद, the काल ज्ञात as the क्रूसेड, a श्रेणी of religiously-motivated सैन्य expeditions originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule, began.
Several Crusader राज्य यहूद संस्थापित in the पूर्वी भूमध्यसागरीय.
These were सब short-lived.
The Crusaders होता have a profound प्रभाव on अनेक भाग of यूरोपीय.
उनके बोरी of कुस्तुंतुनिया in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the Byzantine Empire.
Extinct dog breeds is a compilation of श्वान breeds कि have become विलुप्त.
Wii Speak is a microphone accessory लिये निन्टेंडो 's वी वीडियो खेल console.
Connected to the console via USB, the device can be placed निकट the वीडियो प्रदर्शक, allowing आवाज़ गपशप to be conducted साथ the संपूर्ण room.
The device सुविधाएँ an led to indicate जब the microphone is active.
Wii Speak was घोषित at निन्टेंडो 's 2008 e3 मीडिया drug.
It was released separately and bundled with Animal Crossing : City लोक on नवम्बर 16, 2008, in उत्तर अमेरिका, और थी released on दिसम्बर 5, 2008, in Europe.
the वी बोलो accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's GamePad controller.
निसान बुद्धिमान Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and प्राधिकरण प्रणाली जिससे is उपलब्धियाँ as an विकल्प or standard in several cars.
It was first developed by siemens in the mid-1990s और introduced by mercedes-benz अंतर्गत the नाम `` keyless go '' in 1998 on the w220 s-class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17, 1997.
Univisión ( ) is a spanish-language टेलीविज़न संजाल in the United States.
The network is primarily dedicated for Latin अमरीकी परिवारों जो reside in the संयुक्त राज्य.
It has the largest audience of spanish-language टेलीविज़न दर्शक in the संसार according to nielsen दरजा.
Randy Falco, ( CEO as of June 29, 2011 ) COO, रै महरूम in चार्ज of the कम्पनी चूंकि the प्रस्थान of univision संचार अध्यक्ष और सीईओ Joe Uva in April 2010.
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language टेलीविज़न संजाल, और is प्रायः a दमदार पांचवां, outranking the cw, साथ कुछ fourth-place साप्ताहिक placings, और as of 2012, even first place rankings for individual programs over all five English networks due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year.
Univisión is headquartered in नई यॉर्क, और रै इसके प्रमुख studios, उत्पादन सुविधाएं, और परिचालन in doral, Florida, a suburb of Miami.
In 2009, another टेलीविज़न स्टुडियो थी घोषित, Univision Studios, to be built in Doral.
Univision is available on cable and satellite in सबसे of the देश, साथ लोकल स्टेशन in over 50 बाज़ार साथ विशाल हिस्पैनिक और लातीनी populations और a नेशनल केबल संजाल feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station.
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming in addition to network shows, and in प्रमुख बाज़ार ऐसे as लॉस एंजिल्स, नई यॉर्क, और मियामी the लोकल newscasts carried by the संजाल 's owned-and-operated स्टेशन ( o & o ) स्टेशन are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ), tpg पूंजी, l.P., विधाता इक्विटी साझेदार, मैडिसन dearborn साझेदार, और थामस H. ली साझेदार लिये $ 13.7 अरब or $ 36.25 प्रति share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt.
The buyout left the company with a debt स्तर of बारह टाइम्स इसके सालाना नकदी प्रवाह, जिससे थी twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years.
Artist 's धारणा of a आदिग्रह disk
The formation and of the Solar System is अनुमानित to have begun 4.6 अरब सालो पहले साथ the गुरुत्वाकर्षक पतन of a छोटी part of a giant molecular cloud.
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre, forming the Sun, while the rest flattened into a आदिग्रह डिस्क आउट of जिससे the ग्रह, moons, क्षुद्रग्रह, और अन्य छोटी सौर प्रणाली लाशें formed.
This widely स्वीकृत मॉडल, ज्ञात as the nebular परिकल्पना, थी पहला विकसित in the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg, Immanuel Kant, and Pierre-Simon Laplace.
Its subsequent development has interwoven a किस्में of वैज्ञानिक disciplines सहित खगोलशास्त्र, भौतिकी, भूविज्ञान, और planetary science.
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and the डिस्कवरी of extrasolar ग्रह in the 1990s, the मॉडल रै महरूम दोनो challenged और परिष्कृत to account for new observations.
The सौर प्रणाली रै विकसित considerably चूंकि its initial formation.
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas और धूल around उनके जनक ग्रह, जबकि अन्य moons हैं विचार to have formed independently and later been captured by their planets.
Still others, as the Earth 's Moon, may be the परिणाम of दानव टक्करों.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the उपस्थित दिन और have महरूम सेंट्रल to the एवोल्यूशन of the Solar System.
The स्थितियाँ of the ग्रह प्रायः shifted, और ग्रह have switched places.
This planetary migration is now thought to have महरूम जिम्मेदार लिये much of the सौर प्रणाली 's जल्दी evolution.
In roughly 5 billion years, the सूर्य होगा कूल और विस्तार outward अनेक टाइम्स इसके वर्तमान व्यास ( बनने a रेड दानव ), पहले ढलाई बंद इसके बाहरी परतों as a ग्रहीय nebula and leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a white dwarf.
In the far distant future, the गम्भीरता of गुजर सितारों होगा धीरे reduce the सूर्य 's retinue of ग्रह.
कुछ ग्रह होगा be नष्ट, अन्य ejected into interstellar space.
ultimately, over the कोर्स of tens of अरबों of सालो, it is likely that the Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it.
The Trial ( काफ्का 's असली जर्मनी शीर्षक :, बाद as, और ) is a अनोखा लिखा by फ्रांज काफ्का in 1914 और 1915 लकिन नहीं published until 1925.
One of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the स्टोरी of a man गिरफ्तार और prosecuted by a रिमोट, अभिगम्य प्राधिकार, साथ the प्रकृति of his crime revealed to neither him nor the reader.
Like Kafka 's other novels, The Trial was never completed, हालांकि it करता शामिल a अध्याय जिससे brings the स्टोरी to an end.
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the novel, ऐसे as असमानताओं in समय in जोड to अन्य discontinuities in narration.
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his dost और साहित्यिक executor अधिकतम brod संपादित the टेक्स्ट लिये प्रकाशन by verlag Die Schmiede.
The original manuscript is held at the संग्रहालय of आधुनिक साहित्य, marbach am neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the book was listed in Le Mondes 100 Books of the Century and as No. 2 of the बेहतरीन जर्मनी novels of the बीसवीं सदी.
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11, 1968 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter और अभिनेत्री.
She launched her career in 1994 साथ the सोंग, `` रहो ( i छूटी तुम ) ``, जिससे थी शामिल in the film Reality Bites.
She was the first artist to have a number एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य जबकि नहीं हस्ताक्षरित to a रिकॉर्डिंग contract.
Her five studio CDs शामिल उसके प्रमुख लेबल डेब्यू, the gold-selling tails और इसके follow-up, the grammy-nominated, gold-selling Firecracker.
Loeb has also worked in फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, voice-over कार्य और children’s recordings.
Loeb रै appeared in दो टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, dweezil & लिसा, a साप्ताहिक culinary एडवेंचर लिये the खाना संजाल और Number 1 Single, a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 केन्द्रित on उसके क्वेस्ट लिये प्रेम, कामयाबी, करियर, and family.
Her children 's music शामिल the एल्बम कैच the चंद्रमा ( 2003 ), और शिविर लिसा ( 2008 ).
Her first joint children 's book and एल्बम लिसा लोएब 's पगली sing-along : the निराशाजनक पैनकेक and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011.
In 2010 she संस्थापित the लिसा लोएब चश्मा संग्रहण, जिससे is आधारित on उसके own designs.
The Coat of arms of the राज्य of New Jersey includes:
A shield with three plows emblazoned, प्रतिनिधि of नई जर्सी 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing नाईट 's helmet.
A horse 's head as the crest of the हेल्मेट.
The female figures Liberty और ceres, प्रतिनिधि of the राज्य 's motto ( देखिए next item ).
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a `` स्वतंत्रता कैप `` ; ceres is पकड़कर an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the पैर of the emblem contains the राज्य motto of New Jersey, `` Liberty and Prosperity '', and the year of statehood, 1776.
It was originally designed by पियरे यूजीन du simitiere in 1777 और थी परिवर्धित slightly in 1928.
The seal is the central मोटिफ in the ध्वज of नई जर्सी और the ग्रेट मुहर of the राज्य of नई Jersey.
The Coat of arms contains a घोड़ा 's सिर.
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows on a shield referring to the राज्य 's कृषि परंपरा, giving it the उपनाम `` Garden State ''.
The two Goddesses represent the State motto, `` स्वतंत्रता और समृद्धि ''.
स्वतंत्रता is on the बाएँ.
She is holding a staff with a liberty cap on it, और the शब्द स्वतंत्रता underneath उसके.
The goddess on the सही is ceres, देवी of कृषि.
She is holding a cornucopia साथ समृद्धि लिखा नीचे her.
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11, 1896, the तिथि in जिससे the सभा officially स्वीकृत the ध्वज as the राज्य emblem, the buff रंग is due indirectly to जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, जो था ordered on अक्तूबर 2, 1779, कि the वर्दी coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue, with buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had until then been सुरक्षित तभी लिये उसके अपना वर्दी और those of अन्य महाद्वीपीय सेनापतियों और their aides.
Then, on February 28, 1780, the महाद्वीपीय युद्ध अधिकारियों in फिलाडेल्फिया निर्देशित कि the वर्दी कोट facings of सब regiments यहूद to be the same as the background color of the regiments ' state flag.
The seal is वर्णित in नई जर्सी statute Title 52, §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a सोंग by the बीटल्स, लिखा by पॉल mccartney and John Lennon.
It was released as a `` double a-sided `` सिंगल साथ `` दिन tripper ``, the पहला समय दोनो पहलू of a single were so designated in an initial release.
Both songs were recorded दौरान the रबर आत्मा सत्र.
The song is an example of lennon–mccartney सहयोग at a गहराई कि happened तभी rarely बाद वे लिखा the hit singles of 1963.
This song, `` A Day in the Life ``, `` Baby, You 're a Rich Man `` and `` i 've मिला a अहसास ``, हैं among the notable exceptions.
as a चिकित्सा निदान, pedophilia or paedophilia is a मनोरोग विकार in व्यक्तियों 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी typically characterized by a प्राथमिक or विशेष यौन ब्याज toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger, though specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ).
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or पुरानी जरूर be at तनिक पाँच सालो पुरानी than the prepubescent चाइल्ड पहले the आकर्षण can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term has a range of परिभाषाएं, as मिला in psychiatry, मनोविज्ञान, the vernacular, and law enforcement.
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` विकार of वयस्क व्यक्तित्व और आचरण '' in जिससे वहीँ is a यौन वरीयता लिये children of prepubertal or early pubertal age.
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years of age or older have intense and recurrent sexual प्रेरणाएं towards और कल्पनाओं परिचय prepubescent children कि वे have either acted on or जिससे कारण उन्हें तकलीफ or interpersonal परेशानी.
In popular usage, pedophilia means any यौन ब्याज in children or the अधिनियम of चाइल्ड यौन गाली, प्रायः termed `` pedophilic behavior ''.
For example, The American Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states, `` pedophilia is the अधिनियम or काल्पनिक on the भाग of an वयस्क of engaging in यौन कार्यकलाप साथ a चाइल्ड or children. ''
This common use application also extends to the यौन ब्याज in और यौन सम्पर्क साथ रोमिल or post-pubescent minors.
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided क्युकी हालांकि लोगों जो कमिट चाइल्ड यौन गाली commonly प्रदर्शनी the विकार, कुछ अपराधियों do not meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents.
Additionally, नहीं सब pedophiles दरअसल कमिट such abuse.
Pedophilia was first formally पहचाना और नामित in the लेट 19th century.
A significant amount of शोध in the क्षेत्रफल रै लिया प्लेस चूंकि the 1980s.
Although mostly documented in men, there are also women who प्रदर्शनी the विकार, और शोधकर्ताओं assume उपलब्धियाँ estimates underrepresent the सच्चा क्रमांक of female pedophiles.
No cure for pedophilia रै महरूम विकसित, लकिन वहीँ हैं therapies कि can reduce the incidence of a person committing child sexual abuse.
In the United राज्य, following कान्सास v. hendricks, sex अपराधियों जो हैं diagnosed साथ निश्चित दिमागी विकार, विशेषकर pedophilia, can be विषय to indefinite civil commitment, under various state laws ( generically called SVP laws ) and the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006.
At present, the सटीक कल्याणकारी of pedophilia have नहीं महरूम conclusively established.
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated साथ अनेक अलग neurological abnormalities, और प्रायः co-exists साथ अन्य व्यक्तित्व disorders and psychological pathologies.
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement, a variety of typologies have been सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to बर्ताव और motivations.
Julio César Chávez ( born जूलियो césar chávez gonzález on जुलाई 12, 1962 ) is a रिटायर्ड मैक्सिकन पेशेवर boxer.
Chávez is माना by अनेक लोगों लिये उनके खेल आंकडे the महानतम fighter ever to come out of Mexico.
He is a six-time world चैंपियन in तीन वज़न विभाजन, और लिये अनेक सालो he थी माना एक of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
In a career that spanned over 25 years, Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : wbc सुपर featherweight in 1984, wba lightweight in 1987, wbc lightweight in 1988, wbc लाइट welterweight in 1989, ibf लाइट welterweight in 1990, और wbc Light Welterweight in 1994.
He holds records for सबसे कामयाब लगातार defenses of संसार शीर्षक ( 27 ), सबसे शीर्षक झगड़े ( 37 ), सबसे title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ).
Chávez also has the longest अपराजित streak in मुक्केबाज़ी इतिहास, 13 सालो.
His record was 89-0-1 going into उसके पहला घाटा to फ्रेंकी रान्डेल और था an 87 लड़ो win streak until his `` draw '' with Whitaker.
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding punching power, विनाशकारी देह आक्रमण, remarkably दमदार chin और the अथक stalking of his opponents.
He बाँधने # 24 on ईएसपीएन 's 50 महानतम मुक्केबाज Of All Time.
On दिसम्बर 7, 2010, he थी inducted in the prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय मुक्केबाज़ी हॉल of Fame for the Class of 2011.
He is the father of prospect Omar chávez और पूर्व wbc middleweight चैंपियन जूलियो César Chávez, Jr.
`` selektion `` on the judenrampe, auschwitz, may/june 1944.
To be sent to the right meant स्लेव मजदूर ; to the बाएँ, the गैस कक्ष.
This image shows the आगमन of हंगेरियाई यहूदियों इससे carpatho-ruthenia, many of them from the Berehov ghetto.
The photographer was Ernst hofmann or बर्नहार्ड वाल्टर of the ss. चित्र सौजन्य of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( यहूदी :, hashoah, `` प्रलय '' ; यहूदी :, churben or hurban, इससे the यहूदी लिये `` विनाश '' ), थी the द्रव्यमान हत्या or नरसंहार of लगभग छह लाख यहूदियों दौरान संसार युद्ध ii, a कार्यक्रम of व्यवस्थित state-sponsored हत्या by नाजी जर्मनी, led by एडोल्फ हिटलर और the नाजी पार्टी, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in यूरोपीय पहले the holocaust, लगभग two-thirds यहूद मारे.
Over one million Jewish children were killed in the Holocaust, as यहूद लगभग दो लाख यहूदी महिलाओं और तीन लाख यहूदी मेन.
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory यहूद प्रयुक्त to concentrate, थाम, और मार यहूदियों और अन्य पीड़ितों.
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition, and कुछ उपयोग the आम संज्ञा `` holocaust '' to describe अन्य नाजी द्रव्यमान हत्याएं, सहित those of सोवियत बंदियों of युद्ध, पॉलिश और सोवियत civilians, and homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the fall of the Soviet Union indicates कुछ टेन to ग्यारह लाख नागरिकों और बंदियों of युद्ध यहूद intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
The persecution and नरसंहार यहूद carried आउट in stages.
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society, सबसे prominently the nuremberg कानून, यहूद enacted in जर्मनी सालो पहले the outbreak of World War II.
विशेषज्ञता शिविरों यहूद स्थापित in जिससे inmates यहूद वशीभूत to स्लेव मजदूर जबतक वे died of exhaustion or disease.
Where Germany conquered new territory in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, specialized इकाई पुकारा einsatzgruppen murdered यहूदियों and political opponents in mass shootings.
the occupiers जरूरी यहूदियों और romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos पहले होने transported by freight train to extermination camps where, if they survived the journey, most were systematically killed in gas chambers.
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics that led to the genocides, turning the तीसरा reich into कया one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-H in the United States is a युवावस्था संगठन administered by the नेशनल संस्थान of खाना और कृषि of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ), साथ the मिशन of `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development. ''
The name represents चार निजी विकास क्षेत्रों of फ़ोकस लिये the संगठन : head, heart, hands, and health.
The organization has over 6.5 million सदस्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य, इससे आयु पाँच to twenty-one, in लगभग 90,000 clubs.
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship, leadership, responsibility and life skills of युवावस्था through experiential सीखना कार्यक्रम और a धनात्मक युवावस्था development approach.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused संगठन as a परिणाम of इसके इतिहास, 4-h आज focuses on नागरिकता, स्वस्थ जीना, विज्ञान, engineering, and technology programs.
Today, 4-H and related programs exist in over अस्सी देशों around the संसार ; the संगठन और प्रशासन varies इससे country to country.
प्रत्येक of ये कार्यक्रम operates independently, लकिन cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges, global education programs, and communications.
The 4-h motto is `` to मेक the बेहतरीन बेहतर '', जबकि इसके स्लोगन is `` सीख by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ).
The नेशनल ध्वज of चिली, consists of दो गैरबराबरी आड़ा bands of श्वेत और रेड और a ब्लू वर्गाकार the same height as the white band in the canton, which bears a white five-pointed star in the center.
It थी अपनाया on 18 अक्तूबर 1817.
The Chilean flag is भी ज्ञात in स्पेनी as la estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ).
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; blue symbolizes the आसमान और the प्रशांत समंदर, श्वेत is लिये the snow-covered andes, और रेड स्टैंड लिये the रक्त spilled to achieve स्वतंत्रता.
According to the epic poem La Araucana, the colors यहूद निकला इससे those इससे the ध्वज flown by the mapuche दौरान the Arauco War.
`` ध्वज दिन '' is आयोजित प्रत्येक साल on the नवीं of जुलाई to commemorate the 77 सैनिको who died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción.
Generation Y, also known as the अंतर्दृष्टियों पीढी, is the जनसांख्यिकी दल following Generation X.
There are no precise dates for जब पीढी y starts और ends.
Commentators use beginning birth तिथियाँ इससे the latter 1970s, or इससे the जल्दी 1980s to the जल्दी 2000s.
The torches of नीरो, by henryk Siemiradzki.
According to tacitus, नीरो targeted ईसाइयों as those responsible for the fire.
The Great Fire of रोम ( ) थी an शहरी आग कि occurred शुरूआत 19 July AD 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the राष्ट्रमंडल of वर्जिनिया, is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the South Atlantic region of the United States.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the `` माँ of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the आठ u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों born वहीँ.
The भूगोल और जलवायु of the राष्ट्रमंडल हैं तराशा by the ब्लू लकीरें kyu और the Chesapeake Bay, which provide habitat for much of its flora and fauna.
The capital of the राष्ट्रमंडल is रिचमंड ; और वर्जिनिया बीच is the most populous city.
Fairfax काउंटी is the सबसे populous राजनैतिक subdivision.
the wealthiest is Loudoun County.
The Commonwealth 's जनसांख्यिकी is over आठ लाख.
The area 's history begins साथ अनेक स्वदेशी समूह, सहित the Powhatan.
In 1607 the London Company स्थापित the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया as the first permanent New World English colony.
Slave labor और the जमीन acquired इससे विस्थापित देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों प्रत्येक निभाई a significant भूमिका in the उपनिवेश 's जल्दी politics and plantation economy.
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American Revolution and joined the confederacy in the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध, दौरान जिससे रिचमंड थी बना the confederate पूंजी और वर्जिनिया 's northwestern काउंटी seceded to रूप the state of West Virginia.
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a सदी following पुनर्निर्माण, दोनो प्रमुख नेशनल पार्टियों हैं प्रतिस्पर्धी in आधुनिक वर्जिनिया.
The Virginia General Assembly is the oldest विधानमंडल in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध.
The state government has been repeatedly क्रमित सबसे प्रभावी by the pew बीच on the States.
It is unique in how it treats शहरों और काउंटी बराबर, manages लोकल सड़कें, और prohibits its governors from serving consecutive terms.
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in उत्तरी वर्जिनिया, सहित the मुख्यालय of the विभाग of रक्षा और सीआईए ; और सैन्य सुविधाएं in Hampton Roads, the site of the region 's main seaport.
वर्जिनिया 's पब्लिक स्कूलों और अनेक कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों have contributed to growing media and technology sectors.
As a परिणाम, कंप्यूटर चिप्स have become the राज्य 's अग्रणी export.
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie मेकर, codenamed sundance ) is a फ्रीवेयर वीडियो संपादन software by Microsoft.
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the ability to create and संपादन वीडियो as खूब as to प्रकाशित उन्हें on skydrive, फेसबुक, youtube, और फ्लिकर.
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single by तुपाक shakur, और दसवाँ track इससे उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, 2Pacalypse Now.
The सोंग, जिससे सुविधाएँ r & b सिंगर डेव hollister, is परिचय a बारह year-old लड़की named Brenda who lives in a ghetto, has a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
The सोंग explores the समस्या of टीन गर्भावस्था और इसके प्रभाव on the यंग mothers and their families.
Like many of shakur 's गीतों, `` ब्रेंडा 's मिला a baby '' draws from the plight of the impoverished.
using ब्रेंडा to represent यंग माताओं in सामान्य, shakur criticises the कम स्तर of support from the baby 's father, the government, and society in general.
Shakur wrote the सोंग जब he पढ़ा a समाचारपत्र आलेख परिचय a twelve-year-old लड़की जो मिला गर्भवती इससे उसके cousin और, because she did not want her parents to know about the baby, threw it in a trash can.
The official logo of पोकीमॉन लिये इसके अंतरराष्ट्रीय रिलीज ; `` पोकीमॉन '' is छोटी लिये the असली जापानी title of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a मीडिया मताधिकार प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by जापानी वीडियो खेल कम्पनी Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996.
Originally released as a जोड़ी of interlinkable खेल लड़के role-playing वीडियो खेल विकसित by खेल freak, पोकीमॉन रै चूंकि become the second-most कामयाब and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world, behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise.
Pokémon गुण have चूंकि महरूम merchandised into दुश्मनी, manga, व्यापार cards, toys, books, and other media.
The franchise celebrated in 2006, and, cumulative sales of the वीडियो खेल ( सहित घर कंसोल संस्करण, ऐसे as the `` pikachu '' निन्टेंडो 64 ) have पहुँचे अधिक than 200 लाख नक़ल.
In November 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game सम्बन्धित लाइसेंसिंग of पोकीमॉन, घोषित कि it था सहमत नहीं to नवीनीकृत the पोकीमॉन representation agreement.
Pokémon USA Inc. ( अभी the पोकीमॉन कम्पनी अंतरराष्ट्रीय ), a subsidiary of जापानी 's पोकीमॉन Co., now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia.
The name Pokémon is the romanized संकुचन of the Japanese brand.
The term Pokémon, in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the release of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2 और श्वेत 2 ; साथ the आगामी रिलीज of पोकीमॉन x और y, 6 नई पोकीमॉन have महरूम प्रदर्शित in promotions for the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the एकवचन और बहुवचन, as is प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत प्रजाति नाम ; it is grammatically सही to कह `` एक पोकीमॉन '' और `` अनेक Pokémon '', as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu ''.
Cover of the first संस्करण of the प्रकाशन दादा by ट्रिस्टन tzara ; Zurich, 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism was an आर्ट गति of the यूरोपीय avant-garde in the early 20th century.
Many claim Dada began in Zurich, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to बर्लिन shortly thereafter लकिन the ऊँचाई of नई यॉर्क दादा थी the साल पहले in 1915.
To quote Dona Budd 's The Language of Art ज्ञान, दादा थी born आउट of ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया to the horrors of संसार युद्ध I.
This अंतरराष्ट्रीय गति थी begun by a समूह of कलाकार and poets associated with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich.
Dada अस्वीकृत कारण और लॉजिक, prizing बकवास, irrationality and intuition.
The origin of the नाम दादा is unclear ; कुछ मानना कि it is a nonsensical word.
Others maintain कि it originates इससे the रोमानियाई कलाकारों ट्रिस्टन tzara और मार्सल Janco 's frequent use of the words da, da, meaning yes, yes in the Romanian language.
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a बैठक of the समूह जब a पेपर चाकू stuck into a french-german शब्दकोष happened to पाइंट to 'डैडa ', a फ्रेंच शब्द लिये 'hobbyhorse '.
The गति primarily शामिल विज़ुअल कला, साहित्य, काव्य, आर्ट manifestoes, आर्ट सिद्धान्त, थिएटर, और ग्राफिक डिज़ाइन, और concentrated इसके anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works.
In जोड to होने anti-war, दादा थी भी anti- बुर्जुआ और था राजनैतिक affinities with the radical left.
Dada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, और प्रकाशन of art/literary जर्नल्स ; passionate कवरेज of आर्ट, राजनीती, और संस्कृति यहूद विषय प्रायः discussed in a variety of media.
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball, Emmy Hennings, hans arp, raoul hausmann, हन्ना höch, योहानेस baader, ट्रिस्टन tzara, फ्रांसिस picabia, रिचर्ड huelsenbeck, georg grosz, जॉन heartfield, मार्सल duchamp, beatrice लकडी, कर्ट schwitters, and Hans Richter, among others.
the गति बहकावे बाद शैलियाँ जैसे the avant-garde और शहर म्यूज़िक आंदोलनों, और समूह सहित surrealism, Nouveau réalisme, pop art and Fluxus.
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound काव्य, a starting पाइंट लिये प्रदर्शन आर्ट, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on पॉप आर्ट, a जश्न of antiart to be बाद embraced लिये anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism.
First trophic स्तर.
The पौधे in इस चित्र, और the शैवाल और phytoplankton in the झील, हैं प्राथमिक producers.
They take nutrients from the soil or the water, और manufacture उनके अपना खाना by photosynthesis, using उर्जा इससे the sun.
The trophic level of an सजीव is the स्थिति it occupies in a food chain.
The word trophic गर्भाशयी इससे the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
A food chain represents a succession of जीवों कि खा another सजीव और हैं, in फेरे, खाया themselves.
The number of steps an सजीव is इससे the प्रारंभ of the कड़ी is a माप of इसके trophic level.
Food chains start at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as पौधे, मूव to herbivores at स्तर 2, परभक्षी at स्तर 3 और typically समाप्त साथ carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5.
The path along the कड़ी can रूप either a one-way प्रवाह, or a food `` web. ''
Ecological communities with उच्चतर biodiversity रूप अधिक जटिल trophic paths.
Four of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण domesticated silk moths.
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori, Hyalophora cecropia, antheraea pernyi, samia सिंथिया.
From Meyers konversations-lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy क्रिकेट.
Silk is a natural protein fibre, कुछ फ़ॉर्म of जिससे can be woven into वस्त्र.
The protein fibre of silk is रचित मुख्यतः of fibroin और उत्पादित by certain insect larvae to form cocoons.
The best-known type of silk is प्राप्त इससे the cocoons of the लार्वे of the शहतूत silkworm bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering रूप of रेशा is due to the triangular प्रिज़्म -like ढांचा of the रेशा fibre, which allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at different angles, thus producing different colors.
Silks are produced by several other कीट, लकिन generally तभी the रेशा of शलभ caterpillars रै महरूम used for textile manufacturing.
There has महरूम कुछ शोध into अन्य silks, जिससे differ at the molecular level.
Many silks are mainly produced by the लार्वे of कीट undergoing पूरा metamorphosis, लकिन कुछ वयस्क कीट ऐसे as webspinners उपज रेशा, और कुछ insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives.
Silk उत्पादन भी occurs in कलापक्ष ( मधुमक्खियों, wasps, और चींटियों ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, beetles, lacewings, fleas, flies and midges.
Other types of arthropod produce silk, most notably विभिन्न arachnids ऐसे as मकड़ियों ( देखिए मकड़ी silk ).
Late Show साथ दाउद लेटरमैन is an अमरीकी late-night बात दिखाएँ hosted by David Letterman on CBS.
The show debuted on August 30, 1993, और is उत्पादित by लेटरमैन 's उत्पादन कम्पनी, Worldwide Pants Incorporated.
The दिखाएँ 's म्यूज़िक निदेशक और band-leader of the हाउस बैंड, the सीबीएस ऑर्केस्ट्रा, is पॉल Shaffer.
the सिर लेखक is मैट रॉबर्ट्स और the announcer is Alan Kalter.
Of the major U.S. late-night programs, Late Show बाँधने दूसरी in संचयी औसत दर्शक over समय और तीसरा in number of episodes over time.
The दिखाएँ लीड अन्य लेट रात्रि shows in ad आय with $ 271 million in 2009.
In most U.S. markets the दिखाएँ airs at 11:35 p.m. eastern/pacific समय, लकिन is अंकित सोमवार through बुधवार at 4:30 p.m., और गुरुवार at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The second गुरुवार एपीसोड प्रायः airs on शुक्रवार of that week.
In 2002, Late Show with दाउद लेटरमैन थी क्रमित no. 7 on tv मार्गदर्शिका 's 50 महानतम tv shows of सब समय.
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the show through 2014 ; by तब, लेटरमैन होगा surpass जॉनी कार्सन as the longest tenured late-night बात दिखाएँ मेजबान.
The Real Housewives of Orange County is an American reality वृत्तचित्र टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम on ब्रावो, नियत in नारंगी County, California.
It was the first The रियल housewives कार्यक्रम in the series.
The series is a voyeuristic look into the धनवान जीवनदान of ये housewives, as वे दूकान, मिलेंगी प्लास्टिक सर्जरी, gossip, fight and live lavishly.
The financial crisis, the beginning of which coincided almost exactly साथ the पहला ऋतु 's ब्रॉडकास्ट, रै चूंकि trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles साथ जॉब नुकसान, evictions, बंधक मूलभूत, foreclosures, और वैवाहिक stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show.
Cyberstalking is the use of the अंतरजाल or अन्य इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अर्थात् to stalk or harass an व्यक्तिगत, a group of individuals, or an organization.
It may include the making of false accusations or कथन of फैक्ट ( as in मानहानि ), निगरानी, बनाना खतरे, पहचान चोरी, क्षति to आंकड़ा or उपकरण, the solicitation of नाबालिग लिये sex, or gathering information that may be used to harass.
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a reasonable व्यक्ति, in कब्ज़ा of the वही सूचना, होता लिहाज़ it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress.
Cyberstalking is different from स्थानिक or ऑफ़लाइन stalking in कि it occurs through the उपयोग of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक संचार प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as the अंतरजाल.
However, it sometimes लीड to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both हैं दण्ड offenses.
Cyberstalking shares महत्वपूर्ण विशेषताएँ साथ offline stalking.
Many stalkers – ऑनलाइन or बंद – हैं प्रेरित by a ख्वाहिश to control their victims.
A cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन अजनबी or a व्यक्ति whom the target knows.
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit भागीदारी of अन्य लोगों ऑनलाइन जो do नहीं भी जान the निशाना.
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that comes into play अंतर्गत राज्य anti-stalking कानून, बदनामी कानून, और उत्पीड़न कानून.
A cyberstalking conviction can परिणाम in a restraining अनुक्रम, परिवीक्षा, or भी दण्ड दंड against the assailant, including jail.
A business letter is usually used when writing from one company to another, or for पत्राचार between ऐसे संगठन और उनके ग्राहक, क्लाइंट और अन्य external parties.
The overall style of letter will depend on the संबंध between the पार्टियों चिंतित.
There are many कारण to लिखें a कारोबार अक्षर.
It could be to निवेदन सीधा सूचना or कार्रवाई इससे another पार्टी, to अनुक्रम आपूर्तियाँ इससे a प्रदायक, to पहचानो a गलती कि थी वचनबद्ध, to जवाब directly to a request, to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill.
Even today, the business letter is still very useful because it produces a स्थाई रिकार्ड, is गोपनीय, औपचारिक और delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a सौ प्रजाति of cichlid मछली इससे the tilapiine cichlid जनजाति.
tilapia हैं मुख्यतः freshwater मछली, inhabiting उथले स्ट्रीम, तालाबों, rivers and lakes, and less commonly found living in brackish water.
Historically, they have been of major importance in कारीगर फ़िशिंग in अफ़्रीकी और the levant, और हैं of increasing महत्व in aquaculture.
Tilapia can become समस्यापूर्ण हृदयरोग प्रजाति in नई warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about.
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy नाटक अपराधों फिल्मी अभिनीत tom हैंक्स और beasley the श्वान as the eponymous वर्ण, Turner and Hooch respectively.
The film also stars घोड़ी winningham, क्रेग T. नेल्सन, और रेगिनाल्ड VelJohnson.
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film थी originally slated to be निर्देशित by हेनरी winkler, लकिन he थी terminated due to `` रचनात्मक differences ''.
It was co-written by माइकल blodgett इससे परे the Valley of the Dolls fame.
Although K-9 ( with James belushi ) थी released prior to इस फिल्मी ( exactly तीन महीने पहले ), टर्नर & hooch became अधिक लोकप्रिय और seemingly निष्प्रभ इसके वृहद कामयाबी, भी हालांकि K-9 had a very similar plot.
A pilot for a Turner & hooch tv श्रेणी थी बना और भागा as a भाग of the जादुई World of Disney.
This is a list of israeli एयरपोर्ट, sorted by location.
प्रवेश to ovda Airport
टर्मिनल 3 at बेन Gurion
Plane landing at be'er sheva ( teyman )
eilat विमानक्षेत्र
Adolf हिटलर ( ; 20 अप्रैल 1889 – 30 अप्रैल 1945 ) थी an आस्ट्रिया -born जर्मनी राजनेता और the नेता of the नाजी पार्टी ( ( nsdap ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ).
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 and dictator of नाजी जर्मनी ( as führer und reichskanzler ) इससे 1934 to 1945.
Hitler was at the केन्द्र of नाजी जर्मनी, संसार युद्ध ii in यूरोपीय, and the Holocaust.
Hitler was a decorated दिग्गज of संसार युद्ध I.
He joined the जर्मनी मजदूर ' पार्टी ( precursor of the nsdap ) in 1919, and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921.
in 1923, he attempted a तख्तापलट d'état in म्यूनिख, known as the Beer Hall Putsch.
The failed coup resulted in Hitler 's imprisonment, during जिससे समय he लिखा उसके संस्मरण, mein कैम्फ ( my संघर्ष ).
After his रिलीज in 1924, हिटलर gained लोकप्रिय support by attacking the सन्धि of versailles और promoting pan-germanism, antisemitism, and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda.
After his नियुक्ति as चांसलर in 1933, he रूपांतरित the वाइमर गणतंत्र into the तीसरा reich, a single-party तानाशाही आधारित on the अधिनायकवादी और autocratic ideology of Nazism.
Hitler 's aim was to establish a नई अनुक्रम of निरपेक्ष नाजी जर्मनी आधिपत्य in continental Europe.
To this end, his foreign and domestic policies had the उद्देश्य of seizing lebensraum ( `` जीना स्पेस '' ) for the Germanic people.
He directed the rearmament of जर्मनी और the आक्रमण of कैंडल by the wehrmacht in सितंबर 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
Under Hitler 's rule, in 1941 German forces and their यूरोपीय allies occupied सबसे of यूरोपीय और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी.
in 1943, जर्मनी था महरूम मजबूर onto the रक्षात्मक और suffered a series of escalating defeats.
In the फाइनल दिनों of the युद्ध, दौरान the बैटल of बर्लिन in 1945, हिटलर शादीशुदा his long-time partner, Eva Braun.
On 30 April 1945, less than two दिनों बाद, the दो वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या to avoid कैप्चर by the रेड फौज, and their corpses were burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is considered the main cause of the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii in यूरोपीय.
His antisemitic नीतियों और racially प्रेरित विचारधारा resulted in the मौतों of at तनिक 5.5 लाख Jews, and millions of other people deemed racially inferior.
अंगूठा
a डोमेन नाम is an पहचान स्ट्रिंग कि defines a फ्रेम of प्रशासनिक स्वायत्तता, authority, or control on the Internet.
Domain names are formed by the नियम और प्रक्रियाओं of the डोमेन नाम System ( DNS ).
Technically, कोई नाम पंजीकृत in the डीएनएस is a डोमेन name.
Domain names are used in various networking contexts and application-specific नामकरण और संबोधित उद्देश्य.
In general, a domain name represents an अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( ip ) संसाधन, ऐसे as a निजी कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the अंतरजाल, a सर्वर computer hosting a web site, or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet.
Domain names are organized in subordinate levels ( subdomains ) of the डीएनएस रूट डोमेन, जिससे is nameless.
The first-level set of डोमेन names हैं the top-level डोमेन ( tlds ), सहित the जेनेरिक top-level डोमेन ( gtlds ), ऐसे as the prominent डोमेन com, सूचना, जाल and org, and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ).
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically open for reservation by end-users जो काश to कनेक्ट लोकल क्षेत्रफल संजाल to the अंतरजाल, बनाएँ अन्य सरेआम accessible अंतरजाल संसाधन or run web sites.
The registration of ये डोमेन names is प्रायः administered by डोमेन नाम registrars जो बेचें their services to the public.
A fully योग्य डोमेन नाम ( fqdn ) is a डोमेन नाम कि is completely specified in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no omitted parts.
Domain names are usually written in lowercase, हालांकि लेबल्स in the डोमेन नाम प्रणाली हैं case-insensitive.
Nitrate is a polyatomic आयन साथ the आणविक सूत्र no3− और a आणविक द्रव्यमान of 62.0049 g/mol. Nitrates also describe the organic functional group RONO2.
These nitrate esters are a specialized क्लास of विस्फोटक.
A wheat कटाई in Idaho
This photo from a 1921 ज्ञानकोष shows a ट्रैक्टर ploughing a क्रॉप field.
Agriculture is a major उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य और the देश is a net exporter of food.
As of the last census of कृषि in 2007, वहीँ यहूद 2.2 लाख खेतो, covering an क्षेत्रफल of, an औसत of प्रति farm.
Although agricultural कार्यकलाप occurs in सबसे राज्य, it is विशेषकर concentrated in the विशाल expanse of चपटा, arable जमीन ज्ञात as the Great Plains, which encompasses the central region of the nation.
The Mpemba effect, नामित बाद tanzanian छात्र erasto mpemba, is the assertion कि warmer जल can freeze faster than colder water.
Although there is anecdotal support for the प्रभाव, वहीँ is no अनुबंध on exactly कया the प्रभाव is and under what circumstances it occurs.
There have been reports of similar phenomena चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, हालांकि साथ अपर्याप्त विवरण लिये the claims to be replicated.
The घटना seems contrary to ऊष्मागतिकी, लकिन a number of possible explanations for the effect have been proposed.
Further investigations होगा need to decide on a precise परिभाषा of `` जमने '' और कंट्रोल a विशाल क्रमांक of starting पैरामीटर्स in order to confirm or explain the effect.
The Siamese (, ) is one of the first distinctly पहचाना breeds of Oriental cat.
The नस्ल originated in थाईलैंड ( formerly ज्ञात as सियाम ), जहाँ वे हैं एक of अनेक देशी breeds and are called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ).
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय breeds in यूरोपीय और उत्तर अमेरिका.
Quality Food centers ( qfc ) is a सुपरमार्केट कड़ी आधारित in bellevue, वॉशिंगटन, साथ 64 स्टोर्स in the puget ध्वनि प्रदेश of Washington state and in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area.
in अर्थशास्त्र, the धन सप्लाई or धन भण्डार, is the total amount of monetary assets available in an economy at a specific time.
There are अनेक तरीके to define `` धन, '' लकिन मानक उपायों प्रायः शामिल करेंसी in परिसंचरण और माँग जमा ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily accessed assets on the books of financial institutions ).
Money supply data हैं अंकित और प्रकाशित, प्रायः by the सरकारी or the central bank of the country.
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored परिवर्तन in धन सप्लाई क्युकी of इसके प्रभाव on the दाम स्तर, महंगाई, the exchange rate and the business cycle.
That relation between धन और कीमतें is historically संबद्ध साथ the quantity theory of money.
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct संबंध between money-supply विकास और long-term दाम महंगाई, at तनिक लिये रैपिड increases in the राशि of money in the economy.
That is, a country such as Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases in इसके धन सप्लाई भी देखी रैपिड increases in कीमतें ( hyperinflation ).
This is one reason for the रिलायंस on मौद्रिक नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling inflation.
The nature of इस causal कड़ी is the विषय of contention.
कुछ शास्त अर्थशास्त्रियों argue कि the धन सप्लाई is endogenous ( संकल्पित by the workings of the अर्थव्यवस्था, not by the central bank ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the economy.
In addition, those economists seeing the central bank 's कंट्रोल over the धन सप्लाई as feeble कह कि वहीँ हैं दो कमजोर कड़ी between the विकास of the धन supply and the inflation rate.
First, in the aftermath of a recession, when many resources are underutilized, an बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई can कारण a sustained बढ़ाएँ in रियल उत्पादन बजाय of महंगाई.
Second, if the velocity of money, i.e., the अनुपात between नाममात्र जीडीपी और धन सप्लाई, परिवर्तन, an बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई could have either no प्रभाव, an exaggerated effect, or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP.
लोगो लिये imax.
Warren थिएटर imax सिनेमा, wichita, कान्सास, USA, 601 seats.
A तुलना between 35 mm और 15/70 mm negative areas.
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a motion चित्र फिल्मी स्वरूप और a नियत of सिनेमा प्रक्षेप मानकों निर्मित by the कनाडाई कम्पनी IMAX Corporation.
IMAX has the capacity to record और प्रदर्शक बिंब of दूर वृहद आकार और रेज़ोल्यूशन than conventional film systems.
Since 2002, some feature films have been परिवर्तित ( or upgraded ) into imax स्वरूप लिये प्रदर्शक in imax थिएटर और कुछ have भी महरूम partially शॉट in IMAX.
IMAX is the most widely प्रयुक्त प्रणाली लिये special-venue फिल्मी प्रस्तुतियों.
, वहीँ हैं 697 imax थिएटर in 52 countries.
Today 's Special is a कनाडाई children 's टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ उत्पादित by क्लाइव vanderburgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and मान channel/odyssey ( अभी the hallmark चैनल ) as खूब as many PBS stations throughout the United States.
It was set in a विभाग स्टोर, आधारित on the फ्लैगशिप स्थान of the now defunct Simpson 's in Toronto.
Many sequences for it were शॉट at the महारानी गली वेस्ट और yonge गली स्टोर बाद घंटों.
Constitutionalism, in its most general meaning, is `` a जटिल of विचार, attitudes, और पैटर्न of बर्ताव elaborating the principle कि the प्राधिकार of government derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law ''.
A political organization is constitutional to the extent कि it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति कंट्रोल लिये the सुरक्षा of the रूचि और लिबर्टीज of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority ``.
As described by राजनैतिक वैज्ञानिक और संवैधानिक विद्वान दाउद Fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also known as brain freeze, cold-stimulus सिरदर्द, or इसके दिए वैज्ञानिक नाम sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( अर्थ `` तंत्रिका पीड़ा of the sphenopalatine गंडिका `` ), is a रूप of ब्रैड cranial पीड़ा or सिरदर्द commonly संबद्ध with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops.
It is caused by having कुछ ठंडा टच the छत of the मुँह ( तालु ), और is believed to परिणाम इससे a तंत्रिका जवाब causing रैपिड constriction and swelling of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head.
The रेट of सेवन लिये ठंडा भोजन रै महरूम पढ़ाई as a contributing factor.
There हैं लोगों जो can नहीं अनुभव `` दिमाग फ्रीज '' or similar symptoms.
The term ice-cream सिरदर्द रै महरूम in उपयोग चूंकि at तनिक 31 जनवरी 1937, contained in a जर्नल प्रविष्टि by रेबेका timbres published in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia.
The first published use of the term brain freeze, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, थी on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स कविता लिखा by रॉबर्ट burns in 1788 और नियत to the धुन of a परंपरागत लोक song ( Roud # 6294 ).
It is well known in अनेक देशों, विशेषकर in the english-speaking संसार ; इसके परंपरागत उपयोग होने to celebrate the प्रारंभ of the नई साल at the stroke of midnight.
By extension, it is भी सुंग at अंत्येष्टि, graduations और as a विदाई or ending to other occasions.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय लड़के स्काउट युवावस्था गति, in अनेक देशों, uses it as a close to jamborees and other functions.
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English literally as `` old long since '', or अधिक idiomatically, `` long long पहले '', `` दिनों गए by '' or `` old times ''.
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '', as it appears in the first line of the कोरस, might be loosely अनूदित as `` लिये ( the खातिर of ) old times ''.
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also प्रयुक्त in समान कविताएं by रॉबर्ट ayton ( 1570–1638 ), allan ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), और जेम्स वाटसन ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns.
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the दिनों of auld लैंग syne '' as the समतुल्य of `` एकबार upon a समय...
`` in his retelling of परी किस्से in the स्कॉट्स भाषा.
Ben schulz, खिलाड़ी of leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins और प्रायः elongated साथ numerous अतिरिक्त अक्षर, is an अंतरजाल मीम नामित लिये a खिलाड़ी अक्षर निर्मित by बेन schulz in blizzard entertainment 's MMORPG, World of Warcraft.
The character became लोकप्रिय due to a वीडियो of the खेल that circulated around the Internet.
The phenomenon has चूंकि स्प्रेड परे the सीमाएँ of the गेमिंग जातियाँ into अन्य online and mainstream media.
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in ओकलैंड, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य, in the जल्दी morning घंटों of नई साल 's Day 2009.
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit ट्रैन returning इससे सैन फ्रांसिस्को, बार्ट पुलिस अधिकारियों detained ऑस्कर ग्रान्ट और अनेक अन्य यात्री on the मंच at the Fruitvale BART Station.
अधिकारी योहानेस mehserle और another अधिकारी यहूद restraining Grant, who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest.
Officer Mehserle stood और, according to गवाह, कहा : `` मिलेंगी वापस, I 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once in the वापस ; mehserle appeared दंग, put उसके हैंड्स to उसके सिर and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
During his court testimony, Mehserle said कि ग्रान्ट तब exclaimed, `` तुम शॉट me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he थी सुनाया मुर्दे the अगला morning at highland हॉस्पिटल in Oakland.
The events were captured on अनेक डिजिटल वीडियो और कोशिका फोन कैमरे.
The footage was disseminated to मीडिया आउटलेट और to विभिन्न वेबसाइटों, जहाँ it was watched millions of times.
the following दिनों देखी दोनो शांतिपूर्ण और हिंसक protests.
the शूटिंग रै महरूम variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution.
On January 13, alameda काउंटी prosecutors चार्ज mehserle साथ हत्या लिये the shooting.
He resigned his स्थिति और pleaded नहीं अपराधी.
The trial began on जून 10, 2010.
Michael Rains, Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney, argued that Mehserle mistakenly शॉट ग्रान्ट साथ उसके पिस्टल, intending to उपयोग उसके तासीर जब he देखी ग्रान्ट reaching for his waistband.
pretrial filings argue कि उसके क्लाएंट किया नहीं कमिट first-degree हत्या और पूछा a लॉस एंजिल्स न्यायधीश to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
Oakland civil अधिकारों attorney जॉन burris दायर a $ 25 लाख wrongful मौत अर्जी विरूद्ध BART on behalf of Grant 's family.
On July 8, 2010, the जूरी लौटे इसके verdict : mehserle थी मिला अपराधी of involuntary manslaughter और नहीं guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter.
Initial विरोध विरूद्ध the सत्ताधारी यहूद शांतिपूर्वक व्यवस्थित ; लूटने, आगजनी, विनाश of प्रॉपर्टी, and small riots broke out after dark.
Nearly 80 लोगों यहूद आखिरकार गिरफ्तार.
On Friday, July 9, 2010, the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil rights case विरूद्ध mehserle ; the संघीय सरकारी can prosecute उसे independently लिये the वही अधिनियम अंतर्गत the पृथक अधिपति एक्सेप्शन to double jeopardy.
The विभाग of इंसाफ होगा be working साथ the u.S. attorney 's office in San Francisco and the FBI.
On November 5, 2010, mehserle थी sentenced to दो सालो, ऋण time served.
He served his time in the लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी कारावास, occupying a निजी cell away from other prisoners.
He was released on June 13, 2011 और is अभी on पैरोल.
Major representatives of the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण.
The Harlem पुनर्जागरण थी a सांस्कृतिक गति कि spanned the 1920s.
At the time, it was known as the `` नई नीग्रो गति '', नामित बाद the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke.
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of नई यॉर्क नगर, अनेक french-speaking ब्लैक लेखक इससे अफ़्रीकी और caribbean colonies जो जिया in पेरिस यहूद भी बहकावे by the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण.
The Harlem Renaissance is unofficially पहचाना to have spanned इससे परिचय 1919 जबतक the जल्दी or mid-1930s.
अनेक of इसके विचार जिया on much longer.
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '', as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance, was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A Journal of नीग्रो जीवन hosted a पार्टी लिये ब्लैक लेखक जहाँ अनेक श्वेत प्रकाशक यहूद in उपस्थिति ) और 1929 ( the साल of the भण्डार मार्केट क्रैश और the शुरूआत of the ग्रेट Depression ).
African States between 500 bce और 1500 CE
obelisk at टेम्पल of लक्सर, Egypt.
c. 1200 bce.
अफ़्रीकी नाईट of baguirmi in पूरा padded armour suit.
The history of Africa begins with the प्रागितिहास of अफ़्रीकी और the emergence of होमो sapiens in ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी, continuing into the उपस्थित as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states.
Some जल्दी प्रमाण of कृषि in अफ़्रीकी तिथियाँ इससे 16,000 bce, and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE.
The recorded history of early सभ्यता arose in मिश्र, और बाद in नुबिया, the मग़रिब और the Horn of Africa.
During the मध्य आयु, islam स्प्रेड through the regions.
क्रासिंग the मग़रिब और the सहेल, a major center of Muslim culture was Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture, Mali Empire, Ashanti Empire, किंगडम of mapungubwe, किंगडम of ज्या, किंगडम of saloum, किंगडम of baol, किंगडम of ज़िम्बाब्वे, किंगडम of kongo, प्राचीन कार्थेज, numidia, mauretania, the Aksumite Empire, the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate.
From the late 15th century, Europeans and arabs took स्लेव इससे वेस्ट, सेंट्रल और southeast अफ़्रीकी विदेशी in the African slave trade.
European colonization of अफ़्रीकी विकसित rapidly in the हाथापाई लिये अफ़्रीकी of the लेट 19th and early 20th centuries.
Following struggles लिये स्वतंत्रता in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as खूब as a weakened Europe after the Second World War ; decolonization took place.
Africa 's history has been challenging लिये शोधकर्ताओं in the फ़ील्ड of अफ़्रीकी अध्ययन क्युकी of the किल्लत of written sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
Scholarly techniques ऐसे as the रिकॉर्डिंग of मौखिक इतिहास, ऐतिहासिक भाषाविज्ञान, पुरातत्व and genetics have been crucial.
Curry Foley was the first खिलाड़ी in प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल इतिहास to hit for the cycle.
In baseball, hitting लिये the साईकिल is the accomplishment of एक बैटर hitting a single, a double, a triple, and a home run in the same game.
Collecting the हिट्स in कि अनुक्रम is ज्ञात as a `` natural cycle ''.
Cycles are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ), and have occurred 294 टाइम्स चूंकि the पहला by curry फोली in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it has been पुकारा `` एक of the rarest '' और `` सबसे मुश्किल feats '' in बेसबॉल.
Based on 2009 offensive levels, the probability of an average MLB player hitting for a cycle against an average टोली in a खेल is लगभग 0.00590 % ; इस corresponds to परिचय 2.5 चक्र in a 162-game ऋतु साथ 30 teams.
In other baseball leagues, the साईकिल is हासिल कम अक्सर.
Through September 4, 2008, 62 players in Nippon Professional Baseball ( npb ), the top-level बेसबॉल संगठन in जापानी, have hit लिये the साईकिल, the सबसे हाल होने michihiro Ogasawara.
Two players have hit लिये the साईकिल on the वही दिन एकबार in npb इतिहास ; this has occurred twice in MLB history.
एक npb खिलाड़ी रै भी hit लिये the साईकिल in an NPB All-Star game.
No player has ever hit लिये the साईकिल in the एमएलबी all-star खेल or the postseason.
The main स्लेव रूट in मध्यकालीन Africa.
This आलेख discusses प्रणालियों, इतिहास, और प्रभाव of slavery within Africa.
See अरब स्लेव व्यापार, अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार, maafa, and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण in अफ़्रीकी ''.
Europeans usually किया नहीं डालें the आंतरिक regions.
Slavery in अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक सदियां, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as वे यहूद in much of the ancient world.
In most African समाजों जहाँ गुलामी थी प्रचलित, the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave व्यापार began, अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives लिये स्लेव markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the परिभाषाएं of गुलामी elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of युद्ध captives, सैन्य गुलामी, और दण्ड गुलामी were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions, गुलामी थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन of अनेक समाजों in अफ़्रीकी जबतक the परिचय of transcontinental स्लेव ट्रेड ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with यूरोपीय colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी in the early 1900s.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and system services ( and as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly, e.g, `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर '', `` विस्तारित कार्य मैनेजर '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task मैनेजर can भी be प्रयुक्त to नियत प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं, प्रोसेसर अपनापन, forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
खिड़कियाँ कार्य मैनेजर थी introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
Previous संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग, which had far fewer features.
The task list was capable of listing currently running प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें, or बनाना a नई प्रक्रम.
In Windows XP तभी, a shutdown मेनू is भी उपस्थित कि allows अभिगम to standby, hibernate, फेरे बंद, restart, Log Off and Switch User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, खिड़कियाँ 95, खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य to प्रदर्शक the programs currently running.
This file was executed by कार्यशील the taskman.exe संचिका इससे the c : \खिड़कीs directory.
The Troop is an american-canadian live-action, सिंगल कैमरा कॉमेडी -adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय a तिकड़ी of teenagers who fight and capture monsters and other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood.
निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by अधिकतम burnett, ग्रेग कूलिज और क्रिस मॉर्गन, the श्रेणी premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18, 2009.
The second season premiered on जून 25, 2011 और निकलोडियन रद्द the श्रेणी मिडवे through it 's second season.
The remaining episodes of season 2 यहूद aired on nicktoons मगर the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area, the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ) is घर to a विशाल संभावित of प्राकृतिक संसाधन और खनिज माल, इसके untapped जमा of कच्चा खनिज हैं अनुमानित to be लायक in excess of us $ 24 खरब, yet the अर्थव्यवस्था of the drc रै अस्वीकृत drastically since the mid-1980s.
At the time of its independence in 1960, DRC was the second most industrialized देश in अफ़्रीकी बाद दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; it boasted a thriving खनन सेक्टर और इसके कृषि सेक्टर was relatively productive.
If the दर्शक stares at इस चित्र लिये 20–60 सेकेंड और stares at a श्वेत ऑब्जेक्ट, a negative afterimage will appear ( in this case, it will be cyan on magenta ).
This can भी be हासिल by the दर्शक closing his/her आँखें और tilting their head up.
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an ऑप्टिकल भ्रम कि refers to an चित्र continuing to appear in एक 's दृष्टि बाद the एक्सपोज़र to the असली चित्र रै ceased.
One of the most आम afterimages is the उज्जवल glow कि seems to फ्लैश पहले एक 's आँखें बाद looking into a light source for a few seconds.
Closing the eye can सहायता achieve a बेहतर भाव of the color in its own aspect.
Afterimages come in two forms, ऋणात्मक ( उलट ) और धनात्मक ( retaining असली color ).
The process behind positive afterimages is अनजान, हालांकि विचार to be सम्बन्धित to neural adaptation.
On the other hand, negative afterimages are a retinal घटना और हैं खूब समझा.
Lost is an American serial drama television series that premiered on सितंबर 22, 2004 on the अमरीकी प्रसारण Company ( ABC ).
The series was निर्मित by J. J. abrams और डैमन lindelof, आधारित upon an असली पायलट script titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber.
Six seasons of the show aired, in addition to numerous काटें shows to पूर्वावलोकन पिछला episodes.
ABC announced that खोया होता समाप्त बाद छह सीज़न, having उत्पादित a कुल of 121 एपीसोड.
The series follows the past, present, and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a प्लेन क्रैश on a यात्री जेट, oceanic उड़ान 815, उड़ती इससे सिडनी to लॉस एंजिल्स बाद it क्रैश on a tropical island in the South Pacific.
The series also शामिल कहानियां of the जीवनदान of लोगों already जीना on the द्वीप — वे शामिल the `` अन्य ``, जो initially antagonize the survivors, as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana.
Each episode typically सुविधाएँ कार्रवाई on the द्वीप as खूब as a द्वितीयक कथानक इससे another point in a character 's life.
Season 6 सुविधाएँ a detailing of the जीवनदान of the survivors in a different reality, as if the flight had never crashed.
In the following सूची, the पद `` प्रदर्शित अक्षर ( s ) '' refers to the अक्षर or वर्ण जो हैं प्रदर्शित in the secondary storyline of each episode.
`` no.
in series '' refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in the overall श्रेणी, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in प्रत्येक particular ऋतु.
`` U.S. viewers ( लाख ) '' refers to the क्रमांक of अमेरिकी in millions who watched the episode live.
A total of 121 episodes of Lost यहूद उत्पादित, the पिछला of जिससे aired on May 23, 2010.
All seasons are उपलब्धियाँ on dvd in regions 1–4 और on blu-ray in regions A and B.
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a औपचारिक सन्दर्भ to a चिकित्सा कंडीशन in जिससे the मेहराब of the पैर collapses, साथ the संपूर्ण एकमात्र of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground.
In some individuals ( an अनुमानित 20–30 % of the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ).
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of बाद increased चोट, or पैर समस्याएं, due to चपटा फीट, in a जनसांख्यिकी of लोगों जो पहुँचें सैन्य सेवा आयु बगैर prior foot problems.
however, ये अध्ययन can नहीं be प्रयुक्त to न्यायधीश संभावित भविष्य damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages.
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat फीट हैं संबद्ध साथ पैर लक्षण, or निश्चित लक्षण in अन्य भाग of the देह ( such as the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to gen x, is the पीढी born बाद the पश्चिमी post-world War II baby boom.
Demographers, historians and commentators use beginning birth तिथियाँ इससे the जल्दी 1960s to the early 1980s.
The term was popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 अनोखा पीढी x : किस्से लिये an त्वरित संस्कृति.
Before that, it had महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये विभिन्न subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s.
Pressure ulcers, also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, हैं स्थानीयकृत चोटों to the स्किन and/or underlying ऊतक प्रायः over a बोनी prominence, as a परिणाम of दबाव, or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction.
सबसे commonly इस होगा be the sacrum, coccyx, एड़ियों or the कूल्हों, लकिन अन्य साइट ऐसे as the elbows, knees, ankles or the back of the cranium can be affected.
The कारण of दबाव छाले is दबाव लागू to नरम ऊतक so कि रक्त प्रवाह to the नरम ऊतक is completely or partially obstructed.
Shear is also a cause ; shear खींचता on रक्त बरतन कि फीड the skin.
Pressure ulcers most commonly develop in व्यक्तियों जो हैं नहीं चलती परिचय or हैं confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed कि अन्य कारकों can influence the सहिष्णुता of स्किन लिये दबाव and shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure ulcer development.
These factors are protein-calorie कुपोषण, microclimate ( स्किन wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), रोगों कि reduce रक्त प्रवाह to the स्किन, ऐसे as arteriosclerosis or रोगों कि reduce the feeling in the skin, such as paralysis or neuropathy.
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the age of the person, चिकित्सा शर्तें ( ऐसे as arteriosclerosis, मधुमेह or संक्रमण ), smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs.
Although often prevented and treatable if found early, pressure छाले can be बहुत मुश्किल to prevent in critically बीमार मरीजों, frail बड़ो, व्हीलचेयर उपयोक्ता ( विशेषकर जहाँ स्पाइनल चोट is शामिल ) and terminally ill patients.
प्राथमिक रोकथाम is to redistribute दबाव by turning the patient regularly.
the लाभ of turning to avoid further sores is खूब प्रलेखित since at least the 19th century.
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair, खाने a संतुलित आहार साथ पर्याप्त प्रोटीन और keeping the स्किन फ़्री इससे एक्सपोज़र to मूत्र और स्टूल is very important.
The prevalence of pressure ulcers in हॉस्पिटल जमावट is ऊँची, लकिन सुधार हैं होने बना.
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure अल्सर व्यापकता सर्वेक्षण ) conducted in कनाडा, वहीँ थी a significant घटी in the overall facility-acquired व्यापकता of दबाव ulcers from 2009-2010.
Ulcers were most commonly पहचाना at the sacral/coccyx अल्सर स्थान ; however, एड़ी छाले यहूद the सबसे आम facility-acquired location in the survey.
overboard is a 1987 अमरीकी रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell.
It was निर्देशित by गैरी मार्शल, उत्पादित by roddy mcdowell, और loosely प्रेरित by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away.
In turn, overboard थी adapted into the 2006 दक्षिण कोरियाई टेलीविज़न series, Couple or Trouble.
Green Bay is a नगर in और the काउंटी सीट of भूरा काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन, स्तिथ at the सिर of ग्रीन खाड़ी, a sub-basin of Lake Michigan, at the mouth of the Fox River.
It has an elevation of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर और is स्तिथ उत्तर of मिल्वौकी.
The population was 104,057 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is the third-largest city in the state of विस्कॉन्सिन, बाद मिल्वौकी और Madison.
It is also the third-largest नगर on the वेस्ट shore of झील मिशिगन, after Chicago and Milwaukee.
Green Bay is home to the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग, बनाना it by दूर the smallest महानगर area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise.
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area, which covers Brown, kewaunee, और oconto काउंटी और था a संयुक्त जनसांख्यिकी of 282,599 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
Green Bay is an industrial city with अनेक meatpacking और पेपर पौधे, और a बंदरगाहों on ग्रीन खाड़ी, an भुजा of झील मिशिगन that locals call the Bay of Green Bay, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville पब्लिक संग्रहालय, साथ प्रदर्शनियों of आर्ट, इतिहास, और विज्ञान ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay.
Luteinizing hormone ( LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph कोशिकाएं in the अग्रवर्ती pituitary ग्रंथि.
In females, an acute वृद्धि of lh ( `` lh surge '' ) triggers ovulation और विकास of the corpus luteum.
In males, where LH था भी महरूम पुकारा अंतरालीय cell-stimulating हार्मोन ( icsh ), it stimulates leydig कोशिका production of testosterone.
It acts synergistically साथ fsh.
Selena quintanilla-pérez ( अप्रैल 16, 1971 – कूच 31, 1995 ), ज्ञात बस as सेलिना, was an American singer-songwriter.
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best selling लैटिन कलाकार of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड लिये उसके चौदह top-ten singles in the शीर्ष लैटिन गीतों चार्ट, सहित सात number-one hits.
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994 और 1995, `` amor prohibido `` और `` no me queda más ``.
वो थी पुकारा `` the महारानी of tejano म्यूज़िक `` और the मैक्सिकन equivalent of Madonna.
Selena released उसके पहला एल्बम, सेलिना y लॉस Dinos, at the age of twelve.
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards और उतरा a रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध साथ emi a few सालो बाद.
Her fame grew throughout the जल्दी 1990s, विशेषकर in spanish-speaking देशों, and she had begun recording in English as well.
Selena was murdered at the आयु of 23 on कूच 31, 1995 by yolanda Saldívar, the former president of her fan club.
On April 12, 1995, two सप्ताह बाद उसके मौत, जार्ज W. बुश, राज्यपाल of टेक्सास at the time, declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas.
Warner भाईs. उत्पादित सेलिना, a फिल्मी आधारित on उसके जीवन अभिनीत Jennifer Lopez, in 1997.
Selena 's जीवन थी भी the आधार of the musical सेलिना forever अभिनीत Veronica Vazquez as Selena.
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated साथ a life-sized कांस्य प्रतिमा ( mirador de la flor in कॉर्पस christi, टेक्सास ) और a सेलिना museum opened there.
She has sold over 60 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling artists of all time.
वो is भी the तभी मादा कलाकार to have five albums in U.S. Billboard 200 at the same time.
German stahlhelm इससे संसार युद्ध II
Insignia of the Bolivian फौज colorados रेजीमेंट, प्रर्दशित a stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( बहुवचन, stahlhelme ) is जर्मनी लिये `` steel helmet ''.
The इम्पीरियल जर्मनी फौज began to बदलें the परंपरागत boiled-leather pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with the Stahlhelm during World War I in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers दोनो to a जेनेरिक स्टील हेल्मेट, और अधिक specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design.
The Stahlhelm, with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape, was an instantly recognizable प्रतीक लिये सैन्य imagery और became a आम तत्व of सैन्य प्रचार on दोनो पहलू, just like the Pickelhaube before it.
Its name थी भी प्रयुक्त by the stahlhelm, a अर्धसैनिक राष्ट्रवादी संगठन स्थापित at the end of 1918.
glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
जीवदीप्ति, the उत्पादन और उत्सर्जन of light by a living organism
Chemiluminescence, is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट ( संदीप्ति ) बगैर emission of heat
Phosphorescence, a विशिष्ट प्रकार of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence, production of संदीप्ति in a सामग्री by the बमबारी of आयनकारी radiation
Glow in the Dark दौरे, a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट दौरे by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a hub city लिये लुफ़्थान्सा और receives फ़्लाइट इससे स्टार गठबंधन वाहक.
Airline hubs are airports ranked as large, मीडियम, छोटी, और non-hubs as एक of the faa विमानक्षेत्र श्रेणी जिससे हैं re-evaluated प्रत्येक साल आधारित on क्रमांक of वाणिज्यिक passengers.
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an airport कि an एयरलाइन उपयोग as a ट्रांसफ़र पाइंट to मिलेंगी यात्री to उनके intended destination.
It is part of a हब और spoke मॉडल, जहाँ travelers चलती between एयरपोर्ट नहीं परोसा by सीधा फ़्लाइट change planes en route to their destinations.
This is as opposed to the पाइंट to पाइंट मॉडल.
Many hubs of the एयरलाइंस हैं भी situated at एयरपोर्ट in the cities of the respective head offices.
Some airlines may use only a single hub, जबकि अन्य एयरलाइंस उपयोग अनेक hubs.
Hubs are used लिये दोनो यात्री फ़्लाइट as खूब as कार्गो flights.
Many एयरलाइंस भी उपयोग फ़ोकस शहरों, जिससे फलन much the same as hubs.
Airlines may also use द्वितीयक hubs, a non-technical पद लिये विशाल फ़ोकस cities.
A hub in the middle of a route is more effective than at either समाप्त as connecting ट्रैफ़िक अधिक easily भरता the प्लेन - यात्री prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route.
खोखला lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city कि stood on the हिल of therapne on the बाएँ बैंको of the eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta.
Across the घाटी the successive ridges of माउंट taygetus are in evidence.
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ), or Lacedaemon, was a prominent city-state in ancient यूनानियों, situated on the बैंको of the eurotas नदी in laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th सदी bc, जब the आक्रमणकारी dorians subjugated the लोकल, non-dorian population.
Around 650 BC, it rose to become the प्रबल सैन्य land-power in प्राचीन Greece.
Given its सैन्य pre-eminence, स्पार्टा थी पहचाना as the overall नेता of the संयुक्त Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars.
Between 431 and 404 BC, Sparta थी the प्रिंसिपल दुश्मन of एथेंस दौरान the peloponnesian युद्ध, इससे जिससे it उभरा विजयी, though at great cost.
Sparta 's defeat by thebes in the बैटल of leuctra in 371 bc ended स्पार्टा 's prominent role in Greece.
However, it maintained इसके राजनैतिक स्वतंत्रता जबतक the रोमन conquest of यूनानियों in 146 BC.
It then underwent a long period of decline, विशेषकर in the मध्य आयु, जब अनेक spartans स्थानांतरित to सजीव in mystras.
Modern स्पार्टा is the पूंजी of the यूनानी क्षेत्रीय ईकाई of laconia और a बीच लिये the प्रसंस्करण of goods such as citrus and olives.
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its सोशल प्रणाली और संविधान, जिससे completely केन्द्रित on सैन्य प्रशिक्षण और excellence.
Its inhabitants were classified as spartiates ( spartan नागरिकों, जो enjoyed पूरा अधिकारों ), mothakes ( non-spartan फ़्री मेन उठाया as spartans ), perioikoi ( freedmen ), and Helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local population ).
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training and शिक्षा regimen, और spartan phalanges यहूद widely माना to be among the best in battle.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably अधिक अधिकारों और समता to मेन than elsewhere in the शास्त्रीय world.
Sparta was the subject of fascination in इसके अपना दिन, as खूब as in the वेस्ट following the पुनरुद्धार of शास्त्रीय learning.
This प्रेम or admiration of स्पार्टा is known as Laconism or Laconophilia.
Fantasy football is an interactive competition in which उपयोक्ता compete विरूद्ध प्रत्येक अन्य as सामान्य managers of virtual teams.
The players that an individual is able to मैनेज हैं पेशेवर अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग.
The अलग क्रियाएँ लोगों हैं समर्थ to मेक हैं drafting, व्यापार, adding or dropping players, and changing rosters.
Due to the growth of the अंतरजाल, काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल रै vastly increased in लोकप्रियता, विशेषकर क्युकी काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल प्रदाताओं ऐसे as ईएसपीएन, याहू, सीबीएस, और the एनएफएल itself हैं समर्थ to keep track of statistics entirely online, eliminating the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players.
सबसे लीग have a सिंगल सप्ताह चैंपियनशिप in Week 16 of the NFL season.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, आधारित on un 2010 projections ( रेड, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in ब्लू.
According to the उच्चतम अनुमान, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना इंसानो on Earth.
As of आज, it is अनुमानित to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate अनुमान by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि, it पहुँचे इस milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, और लिये a longer काल दौरान the 1960s and 1970s.
The विकास रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख, जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल, और हैं अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between 7.5 और 10.5 अरब by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास, stagnation, or भी overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ, और उर्जा संसाधन.
skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
This is a तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the इंसान anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां भीतर the ठेठ इंसान, और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां, मिला on दोनो sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as अलग भाग of a सिंगल मांसपेशी or as several muscles.
उदाहरण दायरा इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the मानक anatomical position.
In other positions, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
A gold बार is a मात्रा of परिष्कृत धात्विक सुनहरा of कोई आकार कि is बना by a बार निर्माता बैठक मानक शर्तें of manufacture, labeling, and record keeping.
Larger gold bars that are उत्पादित by pouring the molten मेटल into molds हैं पुकारा ingots.
Smaller bars may be manufactured by minting or stamping इससे appropriately लिपटे सुनहरा sheets.
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by central बैंको और traded among bullion डीलर is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 औंस ) Good Delivery gold bar.
The kilobar, जिससे is to कह 1000 गामा in द्रव्यमान, is the बार कि is अधिक manageable और is used extensively for trading and investment.
The premium on these bars जब traded is बहुत कम over the स्पॉट मान of the सुनहरा बनाना it आदर्श लिये छोटी हस्तांतरण between banks and traders.
Most kilobars are flat, although some investors, विशेषकर in यूरोपीय, prefer the ईंटों आकार.
Elisha आर्चिबाल्ड `` आर्ची '' मैनिंग iii ( born may 19, 1949 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक in the National Football League, playing for the New Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982, then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings.
He is the father of current Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning, वर्तमान नई यॉर्क दिग्गज starting क्वार्टरबैक एली मैनिंग, और पूर्व Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning.
Advocacy is a political process by an व्यक्तिगत or समूह जिससे aims to influence public-policy और संसाधन आवंटन निर्णय भीतर राजनैतिक, economic, and social systems and institutions.
Advocacy can include many क्रियाएँ कि a व्यक्ति or संगठन undertakes सहित मीडिया अभियान, पब्लिक बोलना, commissioning और प्रकाशन शोध or polls or the filing of an amicus brief.
Lobbying ( often by लॉबी समूह ) is a रूप of वकालत जहाँ a सीधा दृष्टिकोण is बना to विधायक on an issue which plays a significant role in modern politics.
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy समूह in the u.S. और कनाडा हैं using सोशल मीडिया to सुकर नागरिक सगाई and collective action.
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a लंबवत तिरंगा of ग्रीन, श्वेत, और रेड साथ the नेशनल कोट of बाहें चार्ज in the center of the white stripe.
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time, these three colors यहूद अपनाया by मैक्सिको following स्वतंत्रता इससे स्पेन दौरान the देश 's युद्ध of Independence, and subsequent First Mexican Empire.
The current flag was adopted in 1968, but the overall डिज़ाइन रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि 1821, जब the पहला नेशनल ध्वज थी निर्मित.
The current law of national symbols, विधि on the नेशनल बाहें, ध्वज, और गान, कि governs the उपयोग of the नेशनल ध्वज रै been in place since 1984.
रेड, श्वेत, और ग्रीन हैं the रंगों of the national liberation army in Mexico.
The central emblem is the एज़टेक pictogram लिये tenochtitlan ( अभी मैक्सिको नगर ), the center of their empire.
It recalls the लेजेंड कि प्रेरित the aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island.
The रूप of the कोट of बाहें थी सबसे recently संशोधित in 1968.
A रिबन in the नेशनल रंगों is at the नीचे of the coat of arms.
throughout इतिहास, the ध्वज रै बदला चार टाइम्स, as the डिज़ाइन of the कोट of बाहें और the length-width ratios of the flag have been modified.
However, the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle, holding a serpent in its talon, is perched on शीर्ष of a prickly नाशपाती कैक्टस ; the कैक्टस is situated on a rock that rises above a lake.
The coat of arms is निकला इससे an एज़टेक लेजेंड कि उनके देवताओं बताई उन्हें to निर्माण a नगर जहाँ वे स्पॉट an त्रिभुज on a nopal eating a serpent, which is now Mexico City.
The current national flag, the चौथी नेशनल ध्वज, is भी प्रयुक्त as the मैक्सिकन नवल ensign by ships registered in Mexico.
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor ब्यूरो promotes a कस्बा, नगर, प्रदेश, or देश in अनुक्रम to बढ़ाएँ the number of visitors.
It promotes the development and विपणन of a गंतव्य, focusing on सम्मेलन बिक्री, पर्यटन विपणन, और services.
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing विज़िट इससे पर्यटकों और कारोबार travelers, जिससे generates overnight आवास लिये a गंतव्य, विज़िट to रेस्तरां, and shopping revenues.
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most important tourism विपणन संगठन in उनके संबंधित पर्यटक गंतव्यों, as वे हैं सीधे जिम्मेदार लिये विपणन the गंतव्य ब्रांड through सफर और पर्यटन `` product awareness '' to visitors.
dmos उपज अरबों of डॉलर in सीधा और अप्रत्यक्ष आय और कर लिये उनके गंतव्यों ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise.
Destination marketing organizations are often पुकारा सफर, सम्मेलन, विज़िटर, or पर्यटन bureaux, welcome centers, information centers and more.
Regardless of the नाम, ये संगठन प्रस्ताव अनेक services to the traveling public.
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is one of the largest प्रजाति of हिरण in the संसार, और एक of the largest जमीन स्तनधारियों in उत्तर अमेरिका और पूर्वी एशिया.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European red हिरण ( cervus elaphus ), लकिन प्रमाण इससे a 2004 पढ़ाई of the mitochondrial डीएनए indicates कि the two are distinct species.
This animal should not be confused with the larger मूस ( alces alces ), to जिससे the नाम `` नीलगाय '' applies in Eurasia.
अलावा इससे the मूस, the तभी अन्य सदस्य of the हिरण परिवार to प्रतिद्वंद्वी the नीलगाय in आकार is the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ).
नीलगाय दायरा in वन और forest-edge आवास, feeding on grasses, पौधे, पत्ते, and bark.
Although native to North America and eastern Asia, वे have adapted खूब to देशों जहाँ वे have महरूम introduced, सहित अर्जेंटीना, Australia, and New Zealand.
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic प्रजाति और ecosystems into जिससे they have been introduced.
Male elk have large antlers जिससे हैं शेड प्रत्येक साल.
males भी engage in ritualized समागम व्यवहार दौरान the rut, सहित posturing, antler कुश्ती ( sparring ), और bugling, a लाउड श्रेणी of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females.
Elk are susceptible to a क्रमांक of संक्रामक रोगों, कुछ of जिससे can be transmitted to livestock.
Efforts to eliminate संक्रामक रोगों इससे नीलगाय populations, largely through टीकाकरण, have had mixed success.
Some संस्कृतियों आदर the नीलगाय as a spiritual force.
In parts of Asia, antlers and उनके मखमल हैं प्रयुक्त in traditional medicines.
Elk are hunted as a खेल प्रजाति ; the मांस is leaner और उच्चतर in प्रोटीन than beef or chicken.
The George Washington University ( GW, GWU, or George वॉशिंगटन ) is a व्यापक निजी, coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, स्नातक डिग्री, मास्टर्स डिग्री, और phds आरपार अनेक dozen disciplines.
The विश्वविद्यालयों थी चार्टर्ड by an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as the Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the four big बिल्लियों in the genus पेंथेरा और a सदस्य of the परिवार फ़ेलिडाए.
With some males exceeding in वज़न, it is the second-largest जीना cat after the tiger.
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in एशिया ( जहाँ an endangered remnant जनसांख्यिकी resides in गिर वन नेशनल पार्क in इण्डिया ) जबकि अन्य प्रकार of शेर have disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia in historic times.
Until the late pleistocene, परिचय 10,000 सालो पहले, the शेर थी the सबसे फैली विशाल जमीन mammal after humans.
They were found in most of Africa, across यूरेशिया इससे पश्चिमी यूरोपीय to इण्डिया, और in the americas इससे the yukon to Peru.
The lion is a vulnerable species, having seen a प्रमुख जनसांख्यिकी मनाही of 30–50 % over the पास्ट दो दशकों in इसके African range.
शेर populations हैं untenable outside designated reserves and national parks.
Although the cause of the मनाही is नहीं fully समझा, आवास घाटा और विरोध साथ इंसानो हैं फिलहाल the महानतम causes of concern.
Within अफ़्रीकी, the वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी शेर जनसांख्यिकी is विशेषकर endangered.
Lions live लिये 10–14 सालो in the जंगली, जबकि in captivity they can live longer than 20 years.
In the wild, males seldom live longer than 10 years, as चोटों sustained इससे continual लड़ साथ प्रतिद्वंद्वी males greatly reduce उनके आयु.
They typically inhabit सवाना और घासभूमि, हालांकि they may take to bush and forest.
Lions are unusually सोशल compared to other cats.
A pride of lions consists of सम्बन्धित महिलाओं और औलाद and a small number of adult males.
समूह of मादा शेर typically हंट साथ, preying mostly on large ungulates.
Lions are apex and keystone परभक्षी, हालांकि वे scavenge as अवसर allows.
While शेर do नहीं typically हंट इंसानो, कुछ have महरूम ज्ञात to do so.
Sleeping mainly दौरान the दिन, शेर हैं primarily nocturnal, हालांकि bordering on crepuscular in nature.
Highly distinctive, the male lion is easily recognised by इसके माने, और इसके फेस is एक of the सबसे widely recognised एनिमल प्रतीकों in इंसान culture.
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period, साथ उत्कीर्णन और paintings इससे the lascaux और chauvet गुफाएं, through वस्तुतः सब प्राचीन और मध्यकालीन संस्कृतियों where they once occurred.
It has been extensively चित्रित in sculptures, in paintings, on नेशनल flags, and in contemporary films and literature.
Lions have been kept in menageries चूंकि the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य, और have महरूम a कुंजी प्रजाति sought लिये exhibition in zoos over the world since the late 18th century.
Zoos are cooperating विश्वव्यापी in प्रजनन कार्यक्रम लिये the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
In the history of video games, the सातवाँ पीढी of consoles is the पिछला पीढी, और शामिल consoles released चूंकि लेट by Nintendo, Microsoft, and Sony.
For घर consoles, the सातवाँ पीढी began on 22 नवम्बर 2005 साथ the रिलीज of एक्सबॉक्स 360 and continued with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006, and Wii on 19 November 2006.
प्रत्येक नई कंसोल introduced a new type of breakthrough in technology.
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at hd रिज़ॉल्यूशन, the प्लेस्टेशन 3 offered, in जोड to fhd गेमिंग, hd फिल्म प्लेबैक via a built-in 3d blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी, and the Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks.
Joining निन्टेंडो in the गति मार्केट, सोनी released the PlayStation Move in September 2010.
The PlayStation Move सुविधाएँ गति संवेदन गेमिंग, समान to that of the Wii.
Microsoft भी joined सोनी और निन्टेंडो, with its Kinect.
Unlike the अन्य दो प्रणालियों ( प्लेस्टेशन 3 और वी ), kinect करता नहीं उपयोग कोई परिरक्षक of कोई sort and makes the users the `` controller. ''
having बेची 8 लाख इकाई in इसके पहला 60 दिनों on the मार्केट, kinect रै claimed the Guinness World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device ''.
While the Xbox 360 offers तार परिरक्षक as a स्टैंडअलोन उत्पाद, सब प्लेस्टेशन 3 परिरक्षक can be प्रयुक्त in wired and wireless configurations.
starting साथ हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the सातवाँ पीढी began on 21 नवम्बर 2004 साथ the उत्तर अमरीकी परिचय of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar '', alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles.
The निन्टेंडो ds ( nds ) सुविधाएँ a टच स्क्रीन और built-in माइक्रोफोन, और supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the संशोधित संस्करण of the nds, the dsi, सुविधाएँ दो निर्मित in कैमरे, the ability to download games from the DSi store, and a web browser.
The PlayStation Portable, or PSP, released बाद the वही साल on 12 दिसम्बर 2004, followed a अलग pattern.
It became the first handheld video game console to use an optical डिस्क स्वरूप, सार्वभौमिक मीडिया डिस्क ( umd ), as इसके प्राथमिक storage media.
Sony also gave the psp मजबूत multi-media काबिलियत, कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन 3 और other PSPs, and Internet connectivity.
The Nintendo DS likewise रै कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल through the निन्टेंडो wi-fi कनेक्शन and Nintendo DS Browser, as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles.
Despite high sales संख्याएँ लिये दोनो consoles, प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल बिक्री have consistently पिछड़ापन पीछे those of the निन्टेंडो ds ; nevertheless, the PlayStation Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system.
Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely दिल क्लबों बैंड ( प्रायः shortened to sgt. pepper ) is the आठवीं स्टुडियो album by English rock band the Beatles.
Released in June 1967, the album included गीतों ऐसे as `` साथ a छोटी सहायता इससे my मित्रों ``, `` लुसी in the आसमान with Diamonds ``, and `` A Day in the Life ``.
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ), sgt. pepper further रजि इससे the conventional पॉप चट्टान मुहावरा of the समय और incorporated balladry, साइकेडेलिक, म्यूज़िक हॉल, and symphonic influences.
During the Sgt. Pepper सत्र, the समूह improved upon the विशेषता of उनके म्यूज़िक 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques.
निर्माता जार्ज मार्टिन 's अभिनव approach included the use of an orchestra.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by English pop artists Peter Blake and jann haworth, थी प्रेरित by a स्केच by पॉल mccartney कि चित्रित the बैंड पोज़ in सामने of a कोलाज of कुछ of उनके पसंदीदा हस्तियाँ.
Sgt. Pepper was a विश्वव्यापी नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, बिता 27 सप्ताह at the शीर्ष of the uk एल्बम चार्ट और 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200.
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock स्टाइल, the एल्बम थी critically acclaimed upon रिलीज और जीती चार Grammy Awards in 1968.
With an अनुमानित 32 लाख नक़ल बेची, it is एक of the संसार 's best selling albums.
sgt. pepper is माना by अनेक to be the सबसे influential और प्रसिद्ध चट्टान एल्बम कभी, और रै been named the greatest album of all time by both All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone.
The temporal पालि is a प्रदेश of the दिमागी cortex कि is located beneath the lateral fissure on both cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain.
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of विज़ुअल यादें, प्रसंस्करण संवेदी इनपुट, comprehending भाषा, storing नई यादें, जज्बात, and deriving meaning.
The human lungs हैं the अंगों of श्वसन in इंसानो.
इंसानो have दो फेफड़े, a सही फेफड़ों और a left lung.
The right lung consists of three lobes while the left lung is slightly छोटी consisting of तभी दो निर्मोक ( the बाएँ फेफड़ों रै a `` हृदय पायदान '' allowing स्पेस लिये the दिल within the chest ).
Together, the lungs contain approximately of airways और 300 to 500 लाख alveoli, having a कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly the वही क्षेत्रफल as एक पक्ष of a टेनिस court.
Furthermore, if all of the capillaries that surround the alveoli यहूद unwound और रखी समाप्त to समाप्त, वे होता extend लिये about.
Each फेफड़ों weighs, इसलिए बनाना the संपूर्ण organ about.
इंसान फेफड़े
The trachea divides into two bronchi ( one लिये प्रत्येक पक्ष ) at the स्तर of t4.
इस जंक्शन is भी ज्ञात as the carina.
the conducting मण्डल contains the श्वासनली, the bronchi, the bronchioles, और the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar ducts, and the alveoli.
The conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) हैं बना up of एयरवेज़.
The conducting मण्डल रै no गैस एक्सचेंज साथ the रक्त, और is reinforced साथ उपास्थि in order to hold open the airways.
The conducting मण्डल warms the एयर to and humidifies the air.
It also cleanses the एयर by निकालना अणु via cilia स्तिथ on the दीवारें of सब the passageways.
The lungs are घिरी by the पसली पिंजरा.
the respiratory मण्डल is the साईट of गैस एक्सचेंज with blood.
The sympathetic बेचैन प्रणाली via noradrenaline acting on the beta receptors causes bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine, जिससे अधिनियमों on the m-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle.
This action is सम्बन्धित, हालांकि माना पृथक इससे bronchoconstriction.
Many other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli, सहित कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और ऑक्सीजन, हैं भी शामिल in the विनियमन process.
The pleural cavity is the potential space between the parietal pleura, lining the भीतरी वॉल of the thoracic पिंजरा, और the visceral pleura अस्तर the lungs.
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar ऊतक साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar नलिकाएं और टर्मिनल bronchioles.
However, it often शामिल कोई रूप of फेफड़ों ऊतक, भी सहित bronchioles, bronchi, रक्त vessels and lung interstitium.
The margarita is a मैक्सिकन कॉकटेल consisting of टकीला मिश्रित साथ cointreau or समान नारंगी -flavoured liqueur और लाइम or lemon juice, often served with salt on the glass rim.
it is the सबसे आम tequila-based cocktail in the United States.
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the rocks ), blended with ice ( frozen मार्गरिटा ), or बगैर बर्फ ( सीधा up ).
Two बोतलों of रेड बरगंडी वाइन इससे gevrey-chambertin, Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color associated with the बरगंडी वाइन of the वही नाम, जिससे in फेरे is नामित बाद the Burgundy region of France.
The color बरगंडी is समान to अन्य शेड्स of अंधेरा red such as maroon.
जब referring to the रंग, `` बरगंडी '' is usually not capitalized.
The first recorded उपयोग of `` बरगंडी '' as a रंग name in English was in 1881.
Grave of an unknown British सिपाही, मारे in 1943 दौरान the बैटल of Leros.
Because his identity is अनजान, he is लापता in action.
Grave of an अनजान अमरीकी सिपाही in oise-aisne Cemetery.
मारे in 1917
Grave of an unknown छत्रसेना, मारे in the बैटल of Arnhem, 1944.
photographed in April 1945
Graves of 11 अनजान अंग्रेजों सैनिको मारे दौरान संसार युद्ध ii, in rhodes cwgc युद्ध cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of अनजान इतालवी सैनिको मारे दौरान संसार युद्ध II, in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of अनजान फ्रेंच सैनिको killed during World War One.
Each concrete cross has a metal प्लैक bearing the शब्द `` inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli रणभूमि, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified फ्रेंच सैनिको जो died in 1915
Graves of unknown Eritrean Ascaris मारे in 1941 दौरान the बैटल of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned under the औकात of लापता to हथियारबंद सेवाएं कर्मियों जो हैं reported लापता during active service.
They may have been मारे, wounded, become a कैदी of युद्ध, or deserted.
If deceased, neither उनके remains nor संगीन can be positively identified.
Becoming MIA has महरूम an occupational रिस्क लिये सेवा कर्मियों लिये as long as there has been warfare.
Chamber of कॉमर्स भवन in Center.
This building is the असली कारावास, निर्मित साथ with the Historic Courthouse.
दोनो बैठना on the कस्बा Square.
The रिओ थिएटर in बीच
पहला बैपटिस्ट गिरिजाघर at 117 कोरा गली in बीच is located next to the downtown section.
First ईसाई गिरिजाघर at 124 कोरा गली in बीच is एक of the oldest congregations in the community.
बीच is a नगर in शेल्बी काउंटी, टेक्सास, United States.
The population थी 5,193 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is the काउंटी सीट of Shelby County.
It is named for its location near the center of शेल्बी काउंटी, नहीं लिये इसके स्थान in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border.
Intense red-eye प्रभाव in ब्लू आँखें साथ dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in छायाचित्र is the आम रूप of रेड pupils in color photographs of eyes.
It occurs when using a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक फ्लैश बहुत बंद to the कैमरा लेंस ( as साथ सबसे compact cameras ), in ambient low light.
The प्रभाव appears in the आँखें of इंसानो और पशु कि have tapetum lucidum.
Theatrical followspot operators, positioned nearly coincidentally with a बहुत उज्जवल लाइट और somewhat दूर इससे the अभिनेताओं, occasionally गवाह red-eye in actors on stage.
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience क्युकी it is reliant on the बहुत छोटी कोण between the followspot ऑपरेटर and the light.
The University of California, Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as uc सांता बारबरा or ucsb ) is a पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों और एक of the टेन सामान्य campuses of the विश्वविद्यालयों of California system.
The main campus is located on a site in goleta, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य, इससे सांता बारबरा और उत्तरपश्चिम of Los Angeles.
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an स्वतंत्र शिक्षक ' कॉलेज, ucsb joined the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया प्रणाली in 1944 और is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system.
UCSB is one of America 's Public Ivy विश्वविद्यालयों, जिससे recognizes शीर्ष पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों in the United States.
The university is a comprehensive doctoral university and is organized into पाँच कॉलेजों और स्कूलों offering 87 undergraduate डिग्री and 55 graduate degrees.
The कैम्पस is the 6th-largest in the uc प्रणाली by नामांकन with 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students.
In 2012, UCSB was ranked 41st among `` नेशनल विश्वविद्यालयों '' और 10th among पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों by u.S. न्यूज & संसार रपट.
The university was also ranked 35th worldwide by the Times Higher शिक्षा संसार विश्वविद्यालयों rankings और 34th विश्वव्यापी ( 6th worldwide for engineering ) by the Academic Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very ऊँची कार्यकलाप '' शोध विश्वविद्यालयों और खर्च $ 191.2 लाख on शोध expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year, 97th-largest in the United States.
UCSB houses बारह नेशनल शोध centers, सहित the प्रसिद्ध kavli संस्थान for Theoretical Physics.
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, one Fields medalist, 29 सदस्यों of the नेशनल अकादमी of sciences, 27 सदस्यों of the नेशनल अकादमी of अभियान्त्रिकी, और 31 सदस्यों of the अमरीकी Academy of Arts and Sciences.
UCSB was the No. 3 host on the arpanet और थी निर्वाचित to the संघ of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों in 1995.
The UC Santa बारबरा gauchos compete in the ncaa प्रभाग i बिग वेस्ट Conference.
The Gauchos have won ncaa नेशनल championships in मेन 's सॉकर और मेन 's water polo.
संत जोसेफ साथ the शिशु Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day, March 19, the Feast of St. Joseph is in Western christianity the प्रिंसिपल feast दिन of संत जोसेफ, जीवनसाथी of the धन्य वर्जिन Mary.
He is भी the step-father of यीशु of Nazareth /Jesus Christ.
It has the rank of a solemnity in the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर ; catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 celebrate it as a पहला क्लास feast.
Previous to 1962 it थी मनाये as a feast of the rank of double of the first class.
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the Anglican नियाज़, और a feast or पर्व in the लूथरन गिरिजाघर.
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as for Canada, persons नामित जोसेफ, josephine, etc., लिये धार्मिक संस्थान, स्कूलों और parishes bearing उसके नाम, और लिये carpenters.
It is भी पिता 's दिन in कुछ कैथोलिक देशों, mainly Spain, Portugal, and Italy.
March 19 थी समर्पित to संत जोसेफ in अनेक पश्चिमी पंचांग by the tenth century, and this custom was established in Rome by 1479.
Pope St. Pius V extended इसके उपयोग to the संपूर्ण रोमन रीति by उसके अपोस्टोलिक संविधान quo primum ( जुलाई 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, Episcopal सम्मेलनों may, if वे काश, ट्रांसफ़र it to a date outside Lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was celebrated in सम्मान of st. जोसेफ as जीवनसाथी of the धन्य वर्जिन मरियम और संरक्षक of the सार्वभौमिक गिरिजाघर, the latter शीर्षक having been given to him by Pope Pius IX.
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after ईस्टर साथ an अष्टक, बाद divino afflatu of st. पायस x ( देखिए सुधार of the रोमन Breviary by Pope Pius X ), it was moved to the preceding Wednesday.
The feast थी भी retitled the solemnity of Saint Joseph.
इस जश्न और इसके accompanying अष्टक थी abolished during the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955.
It is still maintained by catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 or पहले missals.
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss. फिलिप और जेम्स, may 1, था धुंधली इससे the मेमोरी of सबसे catholics by the mid-twentieth सदी, कि of जोसेफ the कार्यकर्ता was created in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries.
The feast of ss. फिलिप और जेम्स, जिससे था महरूम मनाये on कि तिथि चूंकि the छठे सदी, was moved from its traditional place.
In the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, which at one time occupied the उच्चतम संभावित रैंक in the गिरिजाघर पंचांग, थी घटाया to an वैकल्पिक मेमोरियल, the lowest rank for a saint 's day.
The Eastern परंपरागत गिरिजाघर मनाता संत जोसेफ on the संडे after Christmas.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American सिंगर, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, अभिनेत्री, और philanthropist.
Under the guidance of कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड कार्यपालिका टॉमी mottola, कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ), म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ), और मैरी क्रिसमस ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) बना म्यूज़िक इतिहास जब इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` एक मीठी दिन ``, a duet साथ बॉयज ii मेन, खर्च a रिकार्ड सोलह सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate इससे उसके r & b और पॉप beginnings और slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the रिलीज of तितली ( 1997 ), at जिससे समय कैरी था अलग from Mottola.
कैरी बाएँ कोलंबिया in 2000, और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records.
पहले the रिलीज of उसके पहला विशेषता फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ), वो suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of her रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये $ 50 लाख, जिससे led to a मनाही in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract सौदे साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002, और बाद an unsuccessful काल, लौटे to the शीर्ष of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second सिंगल `` we belong साथ `` became उसके सबसे कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s, और थी बाद नामित `` सोंग of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय Film Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey रै बेची अधिक than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling music artists of all time.
in 1998, वो थी सम्मानित as the संसार 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards.
कैरी थी भी नामित the best-selling मादा कलाकार of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of America, वो is the तीसरा best-selling मादा कलाकार in the संयुक्त राज्य, साथ 63.5 लाख certified albums.
With the release of `` टच my देह `` ( 2008 ), कैरी gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, कैरी थी क्रमित दूसरी on vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
Aside इससे उसके वाणिज्यिक accomplishments, कैरी रै जीती पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 17 संसार Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird परम् '' by the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड, वो is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन दायरा, शक्ति, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
A bumblebee is any सदस्य of the मधुमक्खी genus bombus, in the family Apidae.
वहीँ हैं over 250 ज्ञात प्रजाति, मौजूदा primarily in the Northern Hemisphere although they also occur in South America.
They have been introduced to नई जीलैंड और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई राज्य of तस्मानिया.
Bumblebees are social कीट कि हैं characterised by ब्लैक और पीला देह बालों, प्रायः in bands.
However, some species have नारंगी or रेड on उनके लाशें, or may be entirely black.
Another स्पष्ट ( लकिन नहीं अद्वितीय ) characteristic is the नरम प्रकृति of the बाल ( long, branched setae ), पुकारा pile, कि covers their entire body, making them appear and feel fuzzy.
They are best distinguished from similarly large, fuzzy bees by the form of the female hind leg, which is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that is bare, but घिरी by a फ्रिंज of बालों प्रयुक्त to हस्तांतरण पराग ( in समान मधुमक्खियों, the हिन्द लेग is completely बालदार, और पराग दाने हैं wedged into the hairs for transport ).
जैसे उनके रिश्तेदारों the मधु मधुमक्खियों, bumblebees feed on nectar and gather pollen to feed their young.
A man खुलकर carrying a handgun in a बर्गर King in Eagle, Colorado.
In the United States, open carry is आशुलिपि शब्दावली लिये `` खुलकर carrying a firearm in पब्लिक '', as विशिष्ट इससे concealed carry, where firearms can not be seen by the casual observer.
The practice of open carry, where gun owners openly carry firearms while they go about their daily business, रै देखी an बढ़ाएँ in the u.S. in हाल सालो.
This has been marked by a number of organized कार्यक्रम intended to बढ़ाएँ the दृश्यता of खोलें carry और पब्लिक जागरूकता परिचय the practice.
proponents of खोलें carry पाइंट to इतिहास और आंकडे, noting that criminals usually conceal their weapons.
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org, georgiacarry.org और कुछ भागीदार of the फ़्री राज्य प्रोजेक्ट, खोलें carry रै देखी a पुनरुद्धार in हाल years, but it is not yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend.
The gun अधिकारों जातियाँ रै महरूम मिश्रित in its response.
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support, जबकि special-interest समूह ऐसे as the aforementioned opencarry.org और georgiacarry.org, और निश्चित नेशनल समूह ऐसे as the गन स्वामी of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice.
Open carry is strongly opposed by गन कंट्रोल समूह ऐसे as the ब्रैडी अभियान and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.
The Cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in फ़्रांस.
France produces around three quarters of इसके विद्युत by नाभिकीय शक्ति.
the grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय Power Plant in Germany.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति स्टेशन होगा be shut bas by 2022, in a नीति reversal following जापानी 's फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय disaster.
फिलहाल, 68 रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत construction in 15 countries.
Nuclear power stations operate in तीस देशों.
In 2010, before the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति, it थी reported कि an औसत of परिचय 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational प्रति साल, हालांकि according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to become operational between 2007 और 2009, तभी five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany and स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं phasing-out नाभिकीय शक्ति.
As of June 2011, countries such as Australia, ऑस्ट्रिया, डेनमार्क, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, इटली, लातवियाई, liechtenstein, ध्वज, मलेशिया, माल्टा, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a गति चित्र कैमरा, और to समाप्त गति चित्र फिल्मी, तैयार लिये उपयोग in a प्रोजेक्टर, जिससे bears बिंब in color.
The पहला रंग cinematography थी by अर्थात् of योगात्मक रंग प्रणालियों ऐसे as the एक patented in इंग्लैण्ड by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902.
A सरलीकृत योगात्मक प्रणाली थी विकसित by जार्ज अल्बर्ट स्मिथ and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These early प्रणालियों प्रयुक्त black-and-white फिल्मी to फोटोग्राफ और प्रोजेक्ट दो or अधिक घटक बिंब through different color filters.
Still इससे फुटेज अंकित by एडवर्ड Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology, there are two distinct processes : Eastman रंग ऋणात्मक 2 रसायन ( कैमरा ऋणात्मक स्टॉक्स, duplicating interpositive और internegative स्टॉक्स ) और eastman रंग धनात्मक 2 रसायन ( धनात्मक prints for direct projection ), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2.
फुजी 's उत्पाद हैं compatible with ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born अक्तूबर 13, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, record producer, and actress.
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album, which प्रदर्शित the hit सोंग `` foolish ``, और बेची over 503,000 नक़ल in इसके पहला सप्ताह of रिलीज throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
The album set a Soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने सप्ताह बिक्री लिये a नई मादा कलाकार, outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill.
In the same week, she became the पहला मादा यजमान to simultaneously थाम the शीर्ष दो स्थान on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '', and `` What 's Luv ? ``
( साथ मोटे Joe ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs, `` Foolish, '' `` What 's luv ? '' और `` सदा on समय ``, on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट in the वही सप्ताह, होने the पहला स्त्री to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles.
In 2003, the self-titled debut album won Ashanti her first ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन r & b album.
As of April 1st 2013, ashanti रै बेची over 27.7 लाख records worldwide.
ashanti ended the दशक ( 2000–09 ) as the तीसरा top new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé.
She भी ended the दशक at क्रमांक 38 on the शीर्ष कलाकार of the Decade list.
She is currently on the list of The बीस बेहतरीन selling म्यूज़िक singles चूंकि 1990 लिये उसके सिंगल foolish लिये selling 7.2 लाख copies to-date.
Ashanti has an अनुमानित जाल लायक of $ 40 लाख डॉलर [ usd ].
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) ``, which reached number एक on बिलबोर्ड hot 100, जिससे थी भी in the शीर्ष 10 चार्ट at the वही समय as `` foolish '', `` सदा on समय '' ( साथ ja नियम ), और `` कया 's luv '' ( साथ Fat Joe ).
Later that year, she was acclaimed as the `` राजकुमारी of hip-hop & r & b '' by उसके लेबल और capped बंद उसके कामयाब डेब्यू by जीतना आठ बिलबोर्ड awards and two American Music Awards.
Within seven years of ashanti 's करियर, वो रै scored 16 शीर्ष 40 हिट्स on the Hot 100.
Ashanti has endorsed numerous उत्पाद सहित गैप, हर्बल essences और mudd जीन्स.
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet जैक्सन, प्रिंस, मैडोना, तुपाक shakur, मरियम J. blige, एला fitzgerald, नशीले रॉबिन्सन, डोना गर्मियाँ, and Blue Magic as her musical influences.
Praised as a gifted songwriter by उसके peers और आलोचकों alike, ashanti रै written/co-written the bulk of all her music.
She is फिलहाल working on उसके अपना प्रकाशन कम्पनी हकदार लिखा Entertainment.
She released her fourth studio album हकदार the घोषणा on जून 3, 2008 और is फिलहाल in the स्टुडियो working on her fifth.
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand up `` alongside 15 अन्य मादा गायकों लिये the `` स्टैंड up to कर्कट '' सजीव टेलीविज़न खास जिससे helped उठाएँ $ 100 लाख डॉलर for cancer research.
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the सैन्य विमानन भुजा of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका दौरान और तत्काल बाद संसार युद्ध ii, and the direct predecessor of the United States Air Force.
The AAF was a component of the United States Army, which in 1942 थी विभाजित functionally by कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम into तीन autonomous शक्तियां : the फौज मैदान शक्तियां, the सेवाएं of सप्लाई ( जिससे in 1943 became the फौज सेवा शक्तियां ), और the AAF.
Each of these forces had a commanding सामान्य जो reported सीधे to the मुख्य of स्टाफ of the संयुक्त States Army.
The AAF administered all parts of military विमानन formerly वितरित among the फौज एयर corps, सामान्य मुख्यालय एयर फ़ोर्स, और मैदान शक्तियां corps क्षेत्रफल कमांडरों, और यूँ became the पहला एयर organization of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel.
In practice, the aaf थी वस्तुतः autonomous अंदर the फौज.
The peak आकार of the aaf थी over 2.4 लाख मेन और महिलाओं in सेवा और nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, and 783 domestic bases in December 1943.
By VE दिन it था 1.25 लाख मेन stationed विदेशी और संचालित इससे अधिक than 1,600 airfields worldwide.
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a वृहद स्वायत्तता in जिससे to विस्तार अधिक efficiently, और to provide a ढांचा लिये the अतिरिक्त कमांड echelons जरूरी by a vastly increased force.
Although other nations already था पृथक एयर शक्तियां स्वतंत्र of the फौज or नेवी ( ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों royal एयर फ़ोर्स और the जर्मनी luftwaffe ), the aaf remained a भाग of the United States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947.
However, in its विस्तार और conduct of the युद्ध, the aaf became अधिक than बस an भुजा of the वृहद organization.
By the end of World War ii the aaf था become वस्तुतः an स्वतंत्र service.
By regulation and executive order, the AAF was a subordinate agency of the War Department tasked only with आयोजन, प्रशिक्षण, और equipping कॉम्बैट इकाई, सीमित in जिम्मेदारी to the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य, as यहूद the फौज मैदान शक्तियां और the फौज सेवा शक्तियां.
In reality, Headquarters aaf नियंत्रित the conduct of सब पहलुओं of the एयर युद्ध in प्रत्येक भाग of the संसार, determining एयर नीति और issuing आदेश बगैर transmitting them through the Chief of Staff.
This `` contrast between सिद्धान्त और फैक्ट is... आधारभूत to an समझना of the AAF. ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal स्वतंत्रता of सूचना विधि कि allows लिये the पूरा or आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased सूचना और दस्तावेज़ controlled by the United States government.
The Act defines agency रिकॉर्ड विषय to प्रकटीकरण, outlines अनिवार्य प्रकटीकरण प्रक्रियाओं and grants nine exemptions to the statute.
It was originally signed into विधि by अध्यक्ष lyndon B. जॉनसन, despite उसके misgivings, on जुलाई 4, 1966 as and went into effect the following year.
the संघीय सरकारी 's स्वतंत्रता of सूचना अधिनियम चाहिए नहीं be उलझन with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the individual states.
अनेक of those राज्य अधिनियमों may be समान but not identical to the federal act.
The European Union ( EU ) is an आर्थिक और राजनैतिक संघ of 27 सदस्य राज्य कि हैं स्तिथ primarily in Europe.
The eu operates through a प्रणाली of supranational स्वतंत्र institutions and intergovernmental negotiated decisions by the member states.
Institutions of the EU include the European आयोग, the परिषद of the यूरोपीय संघ, the यूरोपीय परिषद, the अदालत of इंसाफ of the यूरोपीय संघ, the European Central Bank, the Court of Auditors, and the European Parliament.
The European पार्लियामेंट is निर्वाचित प्रत्येक पाँच सालो by EU citizens.
The EU 's de facto पूंजी is ब्रसेल्स.
The EU traces its origins from the European Coal and Steel जातियाँ ( ecsc ) और the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ ( eec ), formed by the भीतरी छह देशों in 1951 and 1958 respectively.
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of नई सदस्य राज्य और in शक्ति by the जोड of नीति areas to its remit.
The Maastricht सन्धि स्थापित the यूरोपीय संघ अंतर्गत इसके current name in 1993.
The नवीनतम प्रमुख amendment to the संवैधानिक आधार of the eu, the सन्धि of Lisbon, came into force in 2009.
The EU has विकसित a सिंगल मार्केट through a standardised प्रणाली of laws that apply in all member states.
भीतर the शेंगेन क्षेत्रफल ( जिससे शामिल 22 eu और 4 non-eu राज्य ) passport controls have been abolished.
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, सेवाएं, और पूंजी, enact विधान in इंसाफ और घर अफेयर्स, और maintain आम नीतियों on व्यापार, कृषि, fisheries and regional development.
A monetary union, the eurozone, थी स्थापित in 1999 और is रचित of 17 सदस्य states.
Through the Common Foreign and Security Policy the EU रै विकसित a भूमिका in बाह्य संबंध और रक्षा.
Permanent diplomatic मिशन have महरूम स्थापित around the world.
The EU is represented at the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the WTO, the G8 and the G-20.
With a combined population of over 500 million inhabitants, or 7.3 % of the world population, the EU, in 2012, generated a nominal gross domestic product ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 खरब us डॉलर, representing लगभग 20 % of the वैश्विक जीडीपी जब measured in शर्तें of खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी, और represents the largest नाममात्र जीडीपी और जीडीपी ppp in the world.
The EU was the recipient of the 2012 नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार.
The Wales national rugby लीग टोली represent वेल्स in अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी लीग फ़ुटबॉल matches.
फिलहाल the टोली is सातवाँ in the rlif World Rankings.
The team were run under the auspices of the रग्बी फ़ुटबॉल लीग, लकिन an स्वतंत्र देह, वेल्स रग्बी लीग, अभी रनों the team from Cardiff.
A total of three वेल्श खिलाड़ी have महरूम डाला into the रग्बी लीग Hall Of Fame.
Similar to many other Welsh national sporting teams, Wales स्ट्रिप रै महरूम primarily रेड लिये अनेक सालो, सहित now.
However in their last World Cup campaign in 2000 वे किया पहनें a कमीज़ featuring the वेल्श ध्वज, adding a टच of ग्रीन and white.
The team is known as `` The Dragons '' और so the टीमों लोगो on the कमीज़ is a रेड ड्रैगन.
The टोली तिथि वापस to 1907, बनाना उन्हें the तीसरा oldest national side after England and New Zealand.
And it थी a touring नई जीलैंड पक्ष कि वेल्स पहला निभाई against in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly निभाई इंग्लैण्ड, चूंकि 1935 फ़्रांस, as खूब as सत्कार the touring ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड टीमों, although they rarely toured themselves, not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975.
For twenty-six सालो वेल्स competed विरूद्ध उनके दो biggest विरोधियों, इंग्लैण्ड and France, in the European Nations Cup, winning the trophy four times.
Wales have also competed in the World कप on तीन अवसरों, the पहला समय होने in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful tournaments to date, surprisingly making the semi-finals on दोनो अवसरों पहले होने पिटे by इंग्लैण्ड और Australia respectively.
Wales failed to qualify लिये the 2008 संसार कप, होने the दूसरी उच्चतम क्रमित पक्ष नहीं to do so, having lost to Scotland on points difference over two matches.
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new head कोच और नियुक्त ली briers as कप्तान, having निभाई लिये वेल्स since 1998.
In recent seasons Wales have taken विशाल strides अंतर्गत पूर्व खिलाड़ी iestyn हैरिस जो रै coached वेल्स to वापस to वापस यूरोपीय कप सफलताओं, जिससे culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the फलन of the myocardium ( the दिल मांसपेशी ) लिये कोई कारण, प्रायः अग्रणी to दिल विफलता ; आम लक्षण हैं dyspnea ( breathlessness ) और परिधीय एडिमा ( सूजन of the legs ).
People with cardiomyopathy हैं प्रायः at रिस्क of खतरनाक फ़ॉर्म of irregular दिल beat and sudden cardiac death.
The most common रूप of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
Fuck in its शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the अधिनियम of यौन intercourse.
It is an अंग्रेज़ी शब्द कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The उत्पत्ति of the शब्द is अस्पष्ट.
it is प्रायः माना to be पहला attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as कमीने और fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा, a क्रिया, an क्रियाशील or an क्रियाविशेषण.
There are many common phrases which मेक उपयोग of the शब्द, as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : this article adopts the U.S. Department of परिवहन 's परिभाषा of a यात्री गाडी, to औसत a car or ट्रक, प्रयुक्त लिये यात्री, excluding बसें और रेल.
The United States is home to the largest यात्री गाडी मार्केट of कोई देश in the संसार.
Overall, there were an अनुमानित 254.4 लाख पंजीकृत यात्री वाहनों in the संयुक्त राज्य according to a 2007 DOT study.
This number, along with the औसत आयु of वाहनों, रै increased steadily चूंकि 1960, indicating a growing number of vehicles per capita.
The Chinese car market, however, is poised to soon exceed the United राज्य ; by the समाप्त of 2012, वहीँ यहूद over 240 लाख गाड़ियाँ on the road in China.
The United States is also home to three विशाल गाडी निर्माताओं : सामान्य मोटर्स, घाट मोटर कम्पनी और क्रिसलर, जिससे have historically महरूम referred to as the `` Big Three. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the शीर्ष तीन ; लकिन is number five, behind Toyota and Honda.
The motor car has clearly become an अभिन्न भाग of अमरीकी जीवन, साथ वाहनों outnumbering licensed drivers.
नैदानिक प्रयोगशाला in a हॉस्पिटल सेटिंग showing several automated analysers.
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory जहाँ परीक्षण हैं किया on नैदानिक नमूनों in अनुक्रम to मिलेंगी सूचना परिचय the स्वास्थ्य of a रोगी as pertaining to the निदान, उपचार, और prevention of disease.
In पोकर, खिलाड़ी construct हैंड्स of पाँच ताश according to predetermined rules, which vary according to which variant of poker is being played.
These hands are compared using a hand ranking प्रणाली कि is मानक आरपार सब विसंगतियाँ of पोकर, the खिलाड़ी साथ the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker.
In कुछ विसंगतियाँ, the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie.
ये हाथ rankings हैं भी प्रयुक्त in कुछ अन्य card games, and in poker dice.
The ranking of a particular हाथ is increased by सहित अनेक ताश of the वही कार्ड रैंक, by सब पाँच cards being from the same suit, or by all five cards being of consecutive rank.
The relative ranking of the विभिन्न हाथ श्रेणी is आधारित on the probability of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck.
Bruce रान्डेल hornsby ( born नवम्बर 23, 1954 ) is an अमरीकी virtuoso ; a सिंगर, pianist, सिंथेसाइज़र, accordion, and dulcimer player, and songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity और रचनात्मकता of उसके सजीव प्रदर्शन, hornsby draws अक्सर इससे शास्त्रीय, जैज़, ब्लूग्रास, लोक, motown, इन्जील, rock, blues, and jam band musical traditions with his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within.
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a क्रमांक of अवसरों साथ उद्योग पुरस्कार, सहित the बेहतरीन नई कलाकार ग्रैमी in 1987 साथ ब्रूस hornsby and the Range, the Best Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990, and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993.
Hornsby has also हासिल मान्यता लिये उसके सोलो एल्बम और प्रदर्शन, उसके touring बैंड ब्रूस hornsby और the noisemakers, उसके ब्लूग्रास प्रोजेक्ट with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician.
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was a सदस्य of the बैंड इससे सितंबर 1990 to कूच 1992, playing at over one hundred shows during that period.
Sugarcane वृक्षारोपण in ग्रामीण Cuba
Agriculture in क्यूबा रै निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण भाग in the अर्थव्यवस्था for several hundred years.
Agriculture contributes less than 10 percent to the gross domestic product ( जीडीपी ), लकिन it employs roughly 20 प्रतिशत of the working जनसांख्यिकी.
About 30 प्रतिशत of the देश 's जमीन is प्रयुक्त लिये क्रॉप cultivation.
The inefficient agricultural उद्योग in क्यूबा रै led to the need to import large amounts of foods.
Cuba now imports परिचय 80 % of the खाना it rations to the पब्लिक.
The rationing कार्यक्रम खाते लिये परिचय a तीसरा of the खाना उर्जा the average Cuban consumes.
Overall, however, क्यूबा is निर्भर on imports लिये तभी 16 % of its food.
सही
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game Mega Millions as the successor of the बिग खेल ) is an अमरीकी multi-jurisdictional $ 1 लॉटरी game.
The first ( The Big खेल ) आचमन लाखो आरेखण थी in 2002 ( see below ).
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 equal वार्षिक किश्तों ( जबतक the नकदी विकल्प is चुनी ) ; प्रायः, the जैकपॉट increases जब वहीँ is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no jackpot winner लिये the $ 12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18, 2012 आरेखण, the जैकपॉट remained at $ 12,000,000 लिये the आरेखण to be held on December 21.
( See below लिये सूचना on कैसा the खेल 's जैकपॉट is funded. )
Reflecting common practice among American lotteries, the जैकपॉट is advertised as a नाममात्र मान of सालाना किश्तों.
a नकदी मान विकल्प ( the usual चुनाव ), जब चुनी by a जैकपॉट विजेता ( देखिए नीचे ), pays the approximate present value of the installments.
Mega लाखो फिलहाल उपयोग a 5/56 ( श्वेत गेंदें ) प्लस 1/46 ( the Mega Ball ) double matrix to select its winning numbers.
Each खेल लागत $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the exception ), वहीँ is an विकल्प, पुकारा megaplier ( ऐसे खेल हैं $ 2 प्रत्येक ) जहाँ non-jackpot पुरस्कार are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
The Megaplier थी बना उपलब्धियाँ to सब आचमन लाखो jurisdictions in जनवरी 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option.
आचमन लाखो is drawn at 10:59 p.m. पूर्वी time Tuesdays and Fridays, including holidays.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of इसके 12 असली lotteries और the drawings are held at WSB-TV in Atlanta, Georgia.
पर्यवेक्षित by the जॉर्जिया लॉटरी.
The largest जैकपॉट in आचमन लाखो, as खूब as in अमरीकी लॉटरी इतिहास, थी $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( साथ a नकदी विकल्प of $ 474,000,000 ) लिये the कूच 30, 2012 drawing in which there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois, Kansas, and Maryland.
All three टिकटें था महरूम claimed as of अप्रैल 18, साथ प्रत्येक नियत of विजेता चुनना the cash option.
is a जापानी manga श्रेणी निर्मित by लेखक tsugumi ohba और manga कलाकार Takeshi Obata.
The main character is Light Yagami, a high school student who discovers a अलौकिक कोपी, the `` मौत नोट '', dropped on धरती by a shinigami ( a परमेश्वर of मौत ) named Ryuk.
The Death Note grants its user the ability to मार anyone जिनकी नाम और फेस वे जान, by लिखने the नाम in the कोपी जबकि picturing उनके face.
The series centers around लाइट 's attempt to बनाएँ और नियम a संसार `` cleansed of दुष्ट '' as `` परमेश्वर '' using the कोपी, and the efforts of a detective known as L to stop him.
Death Note was first serialized in 108 chapters by shueisha in the जापानी manga पत्रिका साप्ताहिक shōnen जम्प इससे दिसम्बर 2003 to may 2006.
The series was also published in tankōbon स्वरूप in जापानी starting in may 2004 और समाप्ति in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes.
The anime series aired in Japan इससे अक्तूबर 3, 2006, to जून 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 episodes, the दुश्मनी थी विकसित by madhouse और निर्देशित by Tetsuro Araki.
A लाइट अनोखा आधारित on the श्रेणी, लिखा by nisio isin, was released in Japan.
Additionally, various video games have महरूम प्रकाशित by कोनामी लिये निन्टेंडो DS.
The series was adapted into live-action films released in जापानी on जून 17, 2006, नवम्बर 3, 2006, और फ़रवरी 2, 2008.
Viz मीडिया licensed the मौत नोट manga in उत्तर अमेरिका और रै प्रकाशित सब the बारह आयतन इससे the श्रेणी, a 13th आवाज़ जिससे serves as a `` reader 's guide '', as well as the light novels.
The episodes from the दुश्मनी पहला appeared in उत्तर अमेरिका as downloadable by IGN.
viz बाद licensed the दुश्मनी श्रेणी और it aired on bionix in कनाडा and on Cartoon Network in the United States.
The live-action films briefly निभाई in निश्चित उत्तर अमरीकी theaters since 2008.
however, none of the वीडियो खेल have thus far been published in North America or Europe.
मौत नोट is एक of साप्ताहिक shōnen jumps best-selling manga श्रेणी of सब time, with sales over 26.5 million copies.
हैलोवीन or hallowe'en ( a संकुचन of `` सब hallows ' संध्या `` ), भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many विद्वानों, सब hallows ' संध्या is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार, और त्यौहार of the मुर्दे साथ संभावित pagan जड़ें, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other विद्वानों maintain कि it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween क्रियाएँ शामिल trick-or-treating ( भी ज्ञात as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित वेशभूषा पार्टियों, नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
New York नगर taxicabs दौरान midtown फटाफट घंटा in Manhattan
The taxicabs of नई यॉर्क नगर, साथ उनके distinctive पीला paint, are a widely recognized icon of the city.
taxicabs हैं संचालित by निजी कंपनियाँ और licensed by the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC ).
It also oversees over 40,000 अन्य for-hire वाहनों, सहित `` ब्लैक गाड़ियाँ '', commuter वैन और ambulettes.
`` medallion टैक्सी, '' the परिचित पीला कैब, हैं the तभी वाहनों in the नगर permitted to pick up passengers in response to a street hail.
Schematic cross section of part of पत्ता, जाइलम दिखाया as रेड वृत्त at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular पौधे ( फ्लोएम is the अन्य ).
The word xylem is निकला इससे the यूनानी शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is wood, though it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to हस्तांतरण जल, लकिन it भी transports कुछ nutrients through the plant.
U.S. महिलाओं suffragists demonstrating लिये the सही to vote, February 1913.
Women 's suffrage also known as woman suffrage is the सही of महिलाओं to vote और to चलाएं लिये दफ्तर.
Limited voting rights were gained by women in स्वीडन, फिनलैंड और कुछ पश्चिमी u.S. राज्य in the late 19th century.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन यहूद formed to निर्देशांक प्रयत्न, विशेषकर the अंतरराष्ट्रीय परिषद of Women ( 1888 ) and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
In 1893, New जीलैंड, तब a self-governing अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश, granted वयस्क महिलाओं the सही to vote और the self-governing अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश of South Australia did the same in 1895, but also permitted women to run for office.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया federated in 1901, और महिलाओं acquired the सही to vote और स्टैंड in संघीय चुनावों इससे 1902, though uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national elections were not completely removed until 1962.
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the ग्रैंड duchy of फिनलैंड, तब भाग of the रूसी साम्राज्य, जिससे भी उत्पादित the संसार 's पहला मादा सदस्यों of पार्लियामेंट in the 1907 संसदीय चुनावों.
नार्वे followed, granting पूरा महिलाओं 's suffrage in 1913.
In most पश्चिमी देशों, महिलाओं 's suffrage आए बाद संसार i युद्ध i i, साथ कुछ महत्वपूर्ण लेट adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971.
Women 's suffrage has generally been पहचाना बाद राजनैतिक अभियान to obtain it यहूद waged.
In many देशों it थी granted पहले universal suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a सही अंतर्गत the सम्मेलन on the विलोपन of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, adopted by the United Nations in 1979.
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by डायने setterfield is a गोथिक सस्पेंस अनोखा, the लेखक 's पहला प्रकाशित book.
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian मान्यताओं पृथक इससे मुख्यधारा christianity.सोर्सs लिये descriptors : • millenarian : • restorationist : • ईसाई : • denomination : the संगठन रिपोर्ट्स विश्वव्यापी सदस्यता of over 7.78 लाख adherents शामिल in इंजीलवाद, सम्मेलन attendance of over 12 million, and annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million.
They are directed by the शासी देह of यहोवा 's गवाह, a समूह of बड़ो in ब्रुकलीन, नई York, that establishes all doctrines.
Jehovah 's गवाह ' मान्यताओं हैं आधारित on उनके interpretations of the बाइबल और वे prefer to use their own translation, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
They believe that the destruction of the उपस्थित संसार प्रणाली at armageddon is निकट, और कि the स्थापना of परमेश्वर 's किंगडम on धरती is the only solution for all problems faced by mankind.
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the लेट 1870s by चार्ल्स taze रसेल साथ the गठन of zion 's देखें मीनार ट्रैक्ट समाज —with significant organizational और doctrinal परिवर्तन अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व of Joseph Franklin Rutherford.
The name Jehovah 's witnesses, based on Isaiah 43:10–12, थी अपनाया in 1931 to फर्क themselves इससे अन्य बाइबल छात्र समूह और symbolize a ब्रेक साथ the विरासत of Russell 's traditions.
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known लिये उनके door-to-door उपदेश, distributing साहित्य ऐसे as the बुर्ज and Awake !
, and refusing सैन्य सेवा और रक्त transfusions.
They consider उपयोग of the नाम यहोवा vital for proper worship.
They reject Trinitarianism, inherent immortality of the आत्मा, और hellfire, जिससे वे consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
They do not observe Christmas, Easter, birthdays, or other holidays and customs वे consider to have pagan origins असंगत साथ christianity.
Adherents commonly refer to their body of beliefs as `` the सच्चाई '' और consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
They consider धर्मनिरपेक्ष समाज to be morally भ्रष्ट और अंतर्गत the influence of शैतानी, और most limit their social interaction with non-Witnesses.
Congregational disciplinary क्रियाएँ शामिल disfellowshipping, उनके पद लिये औपचारिक expulsion and shunning.
Baptized individuals जो formally छोड़ हैं माना disassociated and are also shunned.
disfellowshipped और disassociated individuals may आखिरकार be reinstated if deemed repentant.
The religion 's position regarding conscientious objection to सैन्य सेवा और refusal to सलाम नेशनल ध्वज रै brought it into विरोध साथ some governments.
Consequently, Jehovah 's Witnesses have महरूम persecuted और उनके क्रियाएँ हैं बैन or प्रतिबंधित in कुछ countries.
Persistent legal challenges by यहोवा 's गवाह have बहकावे विधान सम्बन्धित to सिविल अधिकारों in several countries.
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 franco-italian रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे portrays a हाल अमरीकी widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young, betrothed Parisian woman.
It सितारों मार्लोन ब्रैंडो, मरिया श्नाइडर, और jean-pierre Léaud.
The film 's raw portrayal of sexual हिंसा और emotional turmoil led to अंतरराष्ट्रीय विवाद और drew various levels of government censorship.
the mpaa दिया the फिल्मी an x दरजा upon रिलीज in the United States.
After revisions were made to the mpaa दरजा कोड, it थी वर्गीकृत as an NC-17 in 1997.
MGM released a censored r-rated काटें in 1981.
The film has its nc-17 दरजा लिये `` कुछ सुस्पष्ट यौन content. ''
Windows XP is an ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली उत्पादित by microsoft लिये उपयोग on निजी कंप्यूटर, सहित घर and business desktops, laptops and media centers.
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24, 2001, it is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, आधारित on संस्थापित उपयोक्ता base.
The name `` XP '' is short लिये `` अनुभव '', highlighting the उन्नत user experience.
Windows XP, the successor to Windows 2000 and Windows ME, was the first consumer-oriented ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली उत्पादित by microsoft to be निर्मित on the खिड़कियाँ NT kernel.
Windows XP was released विश्वव्यापी लिये खुदरा बिक्री on अक्तूबर 25, 2001, और over 400 लाख नक़ल were in use in January 2006.
It was succeeded by खिड़कियाँ विस्टा in January 2007.
Direct OEM and retail बिक्री of खिड़कियाँ xp ceased on जून 30, 2008.
Microsoft जारी to बेचें खिड़कियाँ xp through उनके प्रणाली बिल्डर ( छोटी oems जो बेचें समवेत कंप्यूटर ) program until January 31, 2009.
On April 10, 2012, Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and दफ्तर 2003 होता समाप्त on अप्रैल 8, 2014 और सुझाया कि प्रशासकों शुरू तैयारी to migrate to a नए OS.
The NT -based संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, जिससे हैं प्रोग्रामित in c, C++, और सभा, हैं ज्ञात लिये उनके improved स्थिरता and efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows.
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस, a बदलें microsoft प्रचारित as अधिक user-friendly than पिछला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` dll नरक `` कि plagued the पास्ट संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, improved side-by-side सभा प्रौद्योगिकी in खिड़कियाँ xp allows side-by-side संस्थापना, registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software components in full isolation.
It is also the first version of Windows to use उत्पाद सक्रियण to कॉम्बैट illegal copying.
During Windows XP 's development, the प्रोजेक्ट थी codenamed `` whistler '', बाद whistler, अंग्रेजों कोलंबिया, as अनेक microsoft कर्मचारी skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort.
According to web analytics data उत्पन्न by जाल अनुप्रयोग, खिड़कियाँ xp थी the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली until August 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost प्रत्येक माह चूंकि at तनिक नवम्बर 2007, the पहला माह लिये जिससे आंकडे हैं सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ from Net Applications.
`` पोर ऊना cabeza '' is an अर्जेंटाइन टैंगो साथ म्यूज़िक और गीत लिखा in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively.
The name is a स्पेनी horse-racing phrase अर्थ `` by a सिर '', जिससे refers to a horse winning a race by the length of one head.
The गीत बोलो of a बाध्यता horse-track जुआरी जो compares उसके व्यसन for horses with his attraction to women.
Alfredo Le Pera was a ब्राज़ीलियाई इससे são पाउलो, a much italian-influenced क्षेत्रफल in ब्राज़ील, और भी the जन्मस्थान of Zequinha de Abreu, composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá.
Le Pera and gardel died in an वायुयान क्रैश in medellín, ( Colombia ), on June 24, 1935.
Por ऊना cabeza
The tango has चूंकि महरूम performed by numerous टैंगो orchestras.
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), Schindler 's List ( 1993 ), True Lies ( 1994 ), Titanic ( 1996 ), Bad Santa ( uncut संस्करण, 2003 ), सब the किंग 's मेन ( 2006 ), ग्रह 51 ( 2009 ), एपीसोड 37 of nip/tuck ( 2003–2010 ), एपीसोड 9 of दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक श्रेणी मीठी जासूस ( 2005–08 ), the शुरूआत और समाप्ति क्रेडिट of the दक्षिण Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry, I Love You ( 2004 ), and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ).
In the movie Frida ( Salma हायेक, 2002 ), gardel is सुना गायन it on a radio.
It is also कोटेड in दाउद डेल tredici 's `` Good News !
nilda is वापस '' ( इससे the सोंग साईकिल Miz Inez Sez ).
In Scent of a स्त्री ( 1992 ), the टैंगो is performed by the `` the टैंगो प्रोजेक्ट '', जो दरअसल appear in the dancing scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ).
John Williams arranged a संस्करण of the टुकड़ा कि appears on the एल्बम `` सिनेमा serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have भी performed the टुकड़ा साथ in सजीव कॉन्सर्ट.
In 2012 a dance version was released by the समूह `` da करेरा '' featuring the असली गायन recording by Carlos Gardel.
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is एक of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms लिये maintaining blood pressure.
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease इसलिए causing रक्त दबाव to घटी ; likewise, decreased रक्त दबाव activates the baroreflex, causing दिल रेट to बढ़ाएँ यूँ causing an बढ़ाएँ in blood pressure.
The system relies on specialized न्यूरॉन्स, ज्ञात as baroreceptors, in the aortic मेहराब, carotid साइनस, और elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem.
Subsequent changes in रक्त दबाव हैं mediated by the autonomic बेचैन प्रणाली.
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative प्रतिक्रिया लूप in an endocrinological कंट्रास्ट to the renin-angiotensin system.
The Loma Prieta earthquake, also known as the Quake of '89 और the संसार श्रेणी भूकंप, थी a प्रमुख भूकंप कि struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time.
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 सेकेंड और measured 6.9 on दोनो the पल परिमाण स्केल ( surface-wave परिमाण 7.1 ) और on the open-ended Richter Scale.
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern कैलिफ़ोर्निया, घायल 3,757 और बाएँ कुछ 3,000–12,000 लोगों homeless.
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 संसार श्रेणी, featuring दोनो of the खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल 's प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल टीमों, the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants.
Because of game-related sports coverage, this was the first major earthquake in the संयुक्त राज्य to have इसके आरंभिक धक्का ब्रॉडकास्ट सजीव on टेलीविज़न.
Pawn in the मानक staunton पैटर्न
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most हालातों the weakest टुकड़ा in the खेल of शतरंज, historically representing infantry or, more particularly, armed peasants or pikemen.
In chess, each player begins the game with eight pawns, one on each square of the rank तत्काल in सामने of the अन्य टुकड़े.
( in बीजीय संकेतन, the श्वेत प्यादे प्रारंभ on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, जबकि black pawns start on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
व्यक्तिगत प्यादे हैं referred to by the संचिका on which they stand.
लिये उदाहरण, एक बोलती of `` श्वेत 's f-pawn '' or `` ब्लैक 's b-pawn '', or कम commonly ( using descriptive notation ), `` White 's king 's bishop pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn ''.
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn, meaning any pawn on the a- or h-file, a नाईट साहूकार ( on the b- or g-file ), a बिशप साहूकार ( on the c- or f-file ), a महारानी साहूकार ( on the d-file ), a किंग साहूकार ( on the e-file ), और a सेंट्रल साहूकार ( on either the d- or e-file ).
The सैन्य शक्तियां of the संसार have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals.
The हथियारबंद शक्तियां of सबसे विकसित देशों have अभी removed नीतियों excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ).
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in the सैन्य शामिल the 4 of the 5 सदस्यों of the un सुरक्षा परिषद ( संयुक्त राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस, और रूस ), the गणतंत्र of चीन ( ताईवान ), ऑस्ट्रेलिया, इसराईल, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, Argentina, and all NATO members excluding Turkey.
Hydrogen उत्पादन is the परिवार of औद्योगिक विधि लिये generating hydrogen.
Currently the dominant technology for सीधा उत्पादन is भाप reforming इससे hydrocarbons.
अनेक अन्य विधि हैं ज्ञात सहित electrolysis and thermolysis.
In 2006, the संयुक्त राज्य थी अनुमानित to have a उत्पादन capacity of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen.
5 million टन of हाइड्रोजन यहूद खपत on-site in आयल शोधन, और in the उत्पादन of अमोनिया ( haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 million tonnes were an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali प्रक्रम.
Hydrogen उत्पादन is an अनुमानित $ 100 billion industry.
A basis point ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the बहुवचन as `` bips '', भी ज्ञात as a `` बीप '' ) is a ईकाई बराबर to एक hundredth of a प्रतिशत पाइंट, or एक भाग प्रति टेन thousand, 1/10000.
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad, literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ', and in that context is written with which looks like a प्रतिशत चिह्न ( % ) साथ दो अतिरिक्त zeroes at the समाप्त ( जैसे a stylized रूप of the चार zeros in the denominator, हालांकि it originates as a प्राकृतिक एक्सटेंशन of the प्रतिशत ( % ) और permille ( ‰ ) लक्षण ).
A basis पाइंट is पारिभाषित as:
1 basis पाइंट = 1 permyriad = एक one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of measurement in contexts जहाँ प्रतिशत मतभेद of कम than 1 % हैं discussed.
The most common उदाहरण is ब्याज दरों, जहाँ मतभेद in ब्याज दरों of कम than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 percentage points is समतुल्य to a बदलें of 10 आधार अंक ( e.g. a 4.67 % रेट increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ).
Like percentage points, आधार अंक avoid the ambiguity between सापेक्ष और निरपेक्ष चर्चाएँ परिचय ब्याज rates by dealing only with the absolute change in numeric value of a rate.
For example, if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % ब्याज रेट, इस could refer to an बढ़ाएँ either इससे 10 % to 10.1 % ( सापेक्ष, 1 % of 10 % ), or इससे 10 % to 11 % ( निरपेक्ष, 1 % plus 10 % ).
If, however, the रपट says वहीँ रै महरूम a `` 10 आधार पाइंट बढ़ाएँ '' इससे a 10 % ब्याज रेट, तब we जान कि the ब्याज rate of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate.
It is common practice in the financial industry to उपयोग आधार अंक to denote a रेट बदलें in a वित्तीय यंत्र, or the अंतर ( स्प्रेड ) between दो ब्याज दरों, सहित the yields of fixed-income securities.
Since certain loans और bonds may commonly be कोटेड in संबंध to कुछ अनुक्रमणिका or underlying सुरक्षा, वे होगा प्रायः be quoted as a spread over ( or under ) the index.
For example, a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % प्रति annum ऊपर the लंदन interbank offered रेट ( libor ) is कहा to be 50 आधार अंक over LIBOR, which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 ''.
The term `` basis point '' has its origins in व्यापार the `` आधार '' or the स्प्रेड between दो ब्याज rates.
Since the basis is प्रायः छोटी, ये हैं कोटेड multiplied up by 10000, और hence a `` full point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis point.
कंट्रास्ट साथ pips in fx forward markets.
The relationship between प्रतिशत परिवर्तन और आधार अंक can be summarized as फ़ॉलो : 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट बदलें = 100 basis points, and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point.
So, a bond whose yield increases इससे 5 % to 5.5 % is कहा to बढ़ाएँ by 50 आधार अंक ; or ब्याज दरों कि have risen 1 percentage point are said to have increased by 100 basis points.
The अंग्रेजों royal परिवार is the समूह of बंद रिश्तेदारों of the monarch of the United Kingdom.
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of people जो हैं the संबंध of the monarch in उसके or उसके भूमिका as sovereign of कोई of the अन्य राष्ट्रमंडल realms, यूँ sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by जनम or विवाह, the हाउस of विंडसर, चूंकि 1917, जब जार्ज v बदला the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at युद्ध साथ जर्मनी और दिए the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार 's दमदार जर्मनी ancestry ; it थी लगा कि इसके पब्लिक image could be improved by choosing a more British house name.
The new name chosen, Windsor, had absolutely no कनेक्शन अन्य than as the नाम of the किला जिससे थी और continues to be a royal residence.
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal परिवार, और अलग सूचियाँ होगा शामिल अलग लोगों, those carrying the स्टाइल उसके or उसके majesty ( hm ), or उसके or उसके royal highness ( hrh ) हैं सदा माना सदस्यों, जिससे प्रायः परिणाम in the अनुप्रयोग of the पद to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the विधवा consorts of पिछला monarchs, the children of the monarch और पिछला monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons.
On 30 November 1917, King George V issued अक्षर पेटेंट धमक जो हैं सदस्यों of the royal परिवार ; the टेक्स्ट of the सूचना इससे the लंदन गजट is as follows:
In 1996, Her Majesty The Queen परिवर्धित ये अक्षर पेटेंट, as थी evidenced by इस सूचना इससे the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and a style borne by सदस्यों of the royal परिवार to अतिरिक्त व्यक्तियों to be born, evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and relatives of the British Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various places throughout the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, sometimes लिये विस्तारित अवधि as viceroys, or लिये विशिष्ट ceremonies or कार्यक्रम.
Today, they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम और विदेश on निमित्त of the संयुक्त Kingdom.
Aside from the monarch, their only constitutional role in the अफेयर्स of सरकारी is to serve, if योग्य और जब नियुक्त by अक्षर पेटेंट, as a काउंसलर of राज्य, दो or अधिक of जिसको कसरत the प्राधिकार of the क्राउन ( भीतर stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch.
In the अन्य realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल रॉयल्टी do नहीं serve as Counsellors of State.
However in each such realm the monarch 's परिवार सदस्यों may अधिनियम on निमित्त of, हैं वित्तपोषित by, and represent the sovereign of that particular state, and not the United Kingdom.
The Queen, her consort, her children and grandchildren, as well as सब पूर्व अधिपति ' children और grandchildren थाम स्थान in the पहला भाग of the आधिकारिक आदेश of पूर्वता in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स, स्कॉटलैंड, and Northern Ireland.
पत्नियां of the कहा आनंद उनके पतियों ' पूर्वता, और पतियों of राजकुमारियों हैं unofficially but habitually placed with their wives as well.
however, the महारानी बदला the निजी अनुक्रम of पूर्वता in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and Alexandra, who henceforth take private precedence over the Duchess of Cornwall, who is otherwise the realm 's highest ranking woman after the Queen herself.
She did not alter the सापेक्ष पूर्वता of अन्य born-princesses, ऐसे as the daughters of her younger sons.
हैती ( ; haitian क्रियोल ayiti ), officially the गणतंत्र of Haiti ( ; ), is a Caribbean country.
It occupies the western, smaller portion of the island of Hispaniola, in the वृहद antillean द्वीपसमूह, जिससे it साझा साथ the डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र.
Ayiti ( land of ऊँची kyu ) थी the स्वदेशी taíno or amerindian name for the island.
The देश 's उच्चतम पाइंट is Pic la Selle, at.
The total area of Haiti is और इसके पूंजी is port-au-prince.
Haitian Creole और फ्रेंच हैं the आधिकारिक भाषाएं.
Haiti 's regional, ऐतिहासिक, और ethno-linguistic स्थिति is अद्वितीय लिये अनेक reasons.
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean, the first black -led गणतंत्र in the संसार, और the दूसरी गणतंत्र in the americas जब it gained स्वतंत्रता in 1804 as भाग of a कामयाब स्लेव क्रान्ति स्थायी nearly a दशक.
In 2012, Haiti announced its intention to seek संबद्ध सदस्यता औकात in the अफ़्रीकी Union.
Haiti is the सबसे populous of the predominantly francophone स्वतंत्र राष्ट्र in the Americas.
It is one of only two independent nations in the americas ( साथ साथ कनाडा ) to designate फ्रेंच as an आधिकारिक भाषा ; the अन्य french-speaking क्षेत्रों हैं सब विदेशी départements, or collectivités, of France.
Haiti is the most populous पूरा member-state of the caribbean जातियाँ ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest देश in the americas as measured by the इंसान विकास Index.
राजनैतिक हिंसा रै occurred regularly throughout इसके history, leading to government instability.
Most recently, in February 2004, a तख्तापलट d'état originating in the उत्तर of the देश मजबूर the इस्तीफा और निर्वासन of अध्यक्ष Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
A provisional government took control with सुरक्षा provided by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र स्थिरीकरण मिशन in हैती ( MINUSTAH ).
Michel Martelly, the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, थी निर्वाचित in the Haitian general election, 2011.
The island रै था a इतिहास of destructive earthquakes.
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck हैती on 12 जनवरी 2010 और तबाह port-au-prince.
The highest विश्वसनीय मौत गिनती थी अनुमानित at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates यहूद उच्चतर.
The Presidential palace, पार्लियामेंट और अनेक अन्य महत्वपूर्ण structures यहूद नष्ट, साथ साथ अनगिनत homes and businesses, leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless.
The country has yet to रिकवर इससे the 2010 भूकंप ( और subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the गंभीरता of the damage Haiti endured in 2010, as well as a government that was ineffective well before the earthquake.
United राज्य सहायता संगठन have दान $ 2 billion.
Combined with other international दान, ये निधि हैं intended to योगदान to the rebuilding of the country.
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of सर bob कॉर्नेलियस rifo, the इतालवी इलेक्ट्रो हाउस और dance-punk music producer, DJ and photographer.
The Bloody beetroots is well-known लिये the ब्लैक venom मुखौटा he wears दौरान performances.
In fact, the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the साल `` 1977 '' tattooed आरपार उसके छाती, जिससे is दोनो the साल कि the निर्माता and punk-rock was born.
`` The Bloody Beetroots DJ नियत '' contains सर bob कॉर्नेलियस rifo और टॉमी चाय.
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric pager used in ब्राज़ील in the 1990s, संचालित by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless telecommunications device that receives और प्रदर्शक न्यूमेरिक or टेक्स्ट संदेश, or receives और announces आवाज़ messages.
One-way pagers can तभी प्राप्त संदेश, जबकि जवाब pagers और two-way pagers can भी acknowledge, जवाब to, और originate संदेश using an internal transmitter.
Pagers operate as part of a paging प्रणाली जिससे शामिल एक or अधिक फिक्स्ड ट्रांसमीटरों ( or in the मामला of जवाब pagers और two-way pagers, एक or अधिक आधार स्टेशन ), as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users.
These systems can range from a restaurant system साथ a सिंगल low-power ट्रांसमीटर, to a देशभर प्रणाली साथ हज़ारों of high-power आधार स्टेशन.
One of the first practical paging सेवाएं थी शुभारम्भ in 1950 लिये physicians in the New York City area.
Physicians paid US $ 12 per माह लिये the सेवा और carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर कि होता प्राप्त फोन संदेश within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
The system was manufactured by the reevesound कम्पनी और संचालित by Telanswerphone.
In 1960, John Francis Mitchell संयुक्त तत्व of मोटोरोला 's walkie talkie और ऑटोमोबाइल रेडियो technologies to बनाएँ the पहला transistorized पेजर, और इससे इस पाइंट, paging प्रौद्योगिकी जारी to advance, and pager adoption continued to expand, until the early 1990s.
However, by the mid-1990s, as cellular technologies became सस्ता और अधिक widely उपलब्धियाँ, उन्नत सेवाएं began to displace paging as a वाणिज्यिक उत्पाद.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche उत्पाद, ढूंढना preferential उपयोग in अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as अस्पताल, पब्लिक सुरक्षा, और खुदरा स्थितियाँ जहाँ उनके सादगी, high reliability, and low cost represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a town in dorchester काउंटी, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, संयुक्त राज्य.
The population was 196 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management और बजट, और प्रयुक्त by the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो लिये सांख्यिकीय उद्देश्य तभी, reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area.
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y calderón ; जुलाई 6, 1907 – जुलाई 13, 1954 ) थी a मैक्सिकन चित्रकार, born in coyoacán, जो is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके self-portraits.
Kahlo 's life began and ended in मैक्सिको नगर, in उसके घर ज्ञात as the ब्लू हाउस.
She gave her birth date as जुलाई 7, 1910, लकिन उसके जनम certificate shows July 6, 1907.
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her जनम to coincide साथ the साल of the शुरूआत of the मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति so कि उसके जीवन होता शुरू with the birth of modern Mexico.
Her work has been celebrated in मैक्सिको as emblematic of नेशनल और स्वदेशी परंपरा, और by नारीवादी लिये इसके uncompromising depiction of the female experience and form.
Mexican culture और amerindian सांस्कृतिक परंपरा हैं महत्वपूर्ण in उसके कार्य, जिससे रै महरूम sometimes characterized as Naïve art or folk art.
उसके कार्य रै भी महरूम वर्णित as `` surrealist '', और in 1938 आंद्रे ब्रेटन, प्रिंसिपल initiator of the surrealist movement, described Kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb ''.
Kahlo had a volatile विवाह साथ the प्रसिद्ध मैक्सिकन कलाकार डिएगो रिवेरा.
She suffered lifelong स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं.
Many of her स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं यहूद the परिणाम of a ट्रैफ़िक accident she survived as a teenager.
Recovering from her injuries isolated उसके इससे अन्य लोगों और इस अलगाव बहकावे उसके works, अनेक of जिससे हैं self-portraits of one sort or another.
Kahlo suggested, `` i पेंट खुद क्युकी i am so प्रायः अलोन और क्युकी i am the subject I know best. ''
वो भी stated, `` I was born a bitch.
I was born a चित्रकार. ''
300px
theresienwiese on the दिन पहले Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held annually in म्यूनिख, बायर्न, जर्मनी, कार्यशील इससे लेट सितंबर to the first weekend in October.
It is one of the most famous कार्यक्रम in जर्मनी और is the संसार 's largest मेला, साथ अधिक than 6 लाख people from around the world attending the event every year.
To the locals, it is not called oktoberfest, लकिन `` die wiesn '', बाद the colloquial नाम of the fairgrounds themselves.
The Oktoberfest is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of bar संस्कृति, having महरूम आयोजित since 1810.
Other शहरों आरपार the संसार भी थाम oktoberfest जश्न, modeled after the original Munich event.
The Munich oktoberfest originally took प्लेस दौरान the सोलह दिनों up to, और सहित, the first Sunday in October.
In 1994, the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so कि if the पहला संडे in अक्तूबर जलप्रपात on the 1st or 2nd, तब the festival would go on until October 3 ( German Unity Day ).
Thus, the festival is now 17 दिनों जब the पहला संडे is अक्तूबर 2 और 18 दिनों जब it is October 1.
In 2010, the पर्व lasted जबतक the पहला सोमवार in अक्तूबर, to mark the anniversary of the event.
The festival is held in an area named the theresienwiese ( फ़ील्ड, or मर्ग, of therese ), प्रायः पुकारा wiesn लिये छोटी, located near Munich 's center.
Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are खपत, साथ लगभग 7 लाख liters परोसा दौरान the 16 दिन पर्व in 2007.
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ), Schweinebraten ( roast pork ), Schweinshaxe ( ग्रील्ड हैम ओल ), steckerlfisch ( ग्रील्ड मछली on a स्टिक ), würstl ( sausages ) साथ साथ brezeln ( pretzel ), knödel ( आलू or ब्रैड पकौड़ी ), käsespätzle ( चीज नूडल्स ), reiberdatschi ( आलू pancakes ), Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ).
A platter साथ चीज और garnishes
पहियों of Gouda
Cheese is a generic term for a विविध समूह of milk-based खाना products.
चीज is उत्पादित in wide-ranging जायका, textures, and forms.
Cheese consists of प्रोटीन और मोटे इससे मिल्क, प्रायः the मिल्क of गायों, भैंस, goats, or sheep.
It is उत्पादित by जामन of the मिल्क protein casein.
typically, the मिल्क is acidified और जोड of the एंजाइम rennet causes coagulation.
The solids are अलग और दबाया into फाइनल form.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
Most cheeses melt at कुकिंग तापमान.
Hundreds of types of चीज इससे विभिन्न देशों हैं उत्पादित.
Their styles, textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's आहार ), whether वे have महरूम pasteurized, the butterfat सामग्री, the जीवाणु और mold, the processing, and aging.
Herbs, spices, or wood धुँआ may be प्रयुक्त as flavoring agents.
The yellow to red color of many cheeses, such as रेड लीसेस्टर, is सामान्यतः formed इससे adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids ऐसे as vinegar or lemon juice.
Most cheeses हैं acidified to a lesser उपाधि by जीवाणु, जिससे फेरे मिल्क sugars into lactic acid, then the addition of rennet completes the curdling.
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are available ; most are produced by fermentation of the कवक mucor miehei, लकिन अन्य have महरूम निकाली इससे विभिन्न प्रजाति of the cynara thistle family.
Cheese is valued for its portability, long जीवन, और ऊँची सामग्री of मोटे, प्रोटीन, कैल्सियम, और फॉस्फोरस.
Cheese is अधिक कॉम्पैक्ट और रै a longer शेल्फ जीवन than मिल्क, हालांकि कैसा long a चीज होगा रखना may निर्भर on the type of cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim that a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening.
Generally speaking, hard cheeses last longer than soft cheeses, ऐसे as brie or बकरी 's मिल्क चीज.
Cheesemakers near a dairy प्रदेश may लाभ इससे fresher, lower-priced मिल्क, और निम्नतर शिपिंग लागत.
The long storage life of some चीज, विशेषकर if it is encased in a सुरक्षात्मक rind, allows selling जब बाज़ार हैं favorable.
Additional ingredients may be added to कुछ cheeses, ऐसे as ब्लैक मिर्च, लहसुन, chives or cranberries.
A विशेषज्ञ विक्रेता of चीज is sometimes known as a cheesemonger.
To become an expert in इस फ़ील्ड, जैसे वाइन or कुकिंग, requires कुछ औपचारिक education and years of tasting and hands-on experience.
This position is typically responsible for all aspects of the cheese inventory ; selecting the चीज मेनू, खरीदना, receiving, भंडार, और ripening.
Legal citation signals are a set of brief abbreviated वाक्यांश or शब्द प्रयुक्त to clarify the प्राधिकार or significance of a विधिक citation as it relates to a proposition.
Signals help a reader quickly discern meaning or उपयोगिता of a particular सन्दर्भ जब the सन्दर्भ itself करता नहीं provide पर्याप्त information.
Most citation सिग्नल हैं लगाई in सामने of the citation to which they apply.
लिये उदाहरण, in the अनुच्छेद जब लिखने a विधिक तर्क, it is important to refer to primary sources.
To assist readers in locating these स्त्रोत, it is वांछनीय to उपयोग a मानकीकृत citation format.
See generally हार्वर्ड विधि पुनर्विलोकन संघ, the bluebook : a वर्दी प्रणाली of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that some न्यायालयों may आवश्यकता कोई विधिक papers कि हैं सुपुर्द to उन्हें to conform to a different citation format.
the signal is the phrase `` see generally, '' जिससे indicates कि the citation `` the bluebook : a वर्दी प्रणाली of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the topic.
Neil Alden Armstrong ( अगस्त 5, 1930 – अगस्त 25, 2012 ) थी an अमरीकी astronaut और the पहला व्यक्ति to चलना on the चंद्रमा.
He was also an aerospace इंजीनियर, नवल एविएटर, परीक्षण pilot, and university professor.
पहले बनने an astronaut, आर्मस्ट्रांग थी an अधिकारी in the U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War.
After the war, he earned his bachelor 's उपाधि at purdue विश्वविद्यालयों और परोसा as a परीक्षण पायलट at the नेशनल सलाहकार कमेटी लिये aeronautics high-speed Flight Station, now known as the Dryden Flight Research Center, where he logged over 900 flights.
He later समाप्त ग्रैजुएट अध्ययन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी California.
A participant in the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स 's man in स्पेस soonest और x-20 dyna-soar इंसान spaceflight कार्यक्रम, आर्मस्ट्रांग joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962.
He made his first स्पेस उड़ान, as कमांड पायलट of मिथुन 8, in 1966, बनने नासा 's पहला civilian astronaut to fly in space.
On this mission, he performed the पहला डॉकिंग of दो spacecraft, with pilot David Scott.
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's दूसरी और पिछला spaceflight थी as मिशन commander of the Apollo 11 moon landing, in July 1969.
On this mission, Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface और खर्च दो और a हाफ घंटों exploring, जबकि माइकल कॉलिन्स remained in चंद्र कक्षा in the Command Module.
Along with Collins and Aldrin, Armstrong was awarded the Presidential पदक of स्वतंत्रता by अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड निक्सन ; in 1978, अध्यक्ष jimmy कार्टर प्रस्तुत आर्मस्ट्रांग the congressional स्पेस पदक of सम्मान in 1978 ; he और उसके पूर्व crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009.
Armstrong died in सिनसिनाटी, ओहियो, on अगस्त 25, 2012, at the आयु of 82, बाद जटिलताओं from coronary artery bypass surgery.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – अक्तूबर 4, 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in सब तीन कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the केंटकी डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
He is considered to be एक of the महानतम thoroughbreds of सब time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th सदी, the उच्चतम रैंकिंग racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in the blood-horse 's सूची of the शीर्ष 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
सचिवालय थी sired by बिंदास शासक आउट of somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He थी foaled at the मर्ग in कैरोलीन काउंटी, Virginia.
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' युद्ध, सचिवालय थी a विशाल शाहबलूत टट्टू और थी दिए the वही उपनाम, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल क्राउन विजेता सिएटल Slew.
Owned by Penny chenery, he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई jockey रॉन turcotte, साथ साथ प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत checkered रंगों और उसके दूल्हे थी एडी Sweat.
Secretariat stood लगभग लम्बा, और weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
Madrid (, ) is the पूंजी और largest city of Spain.
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire population of the मैड्रिड महानगर क्षेत्रफल is गणना to be around 6.5 million.
It is the third-largest नगर in the यूरोपीय संघ, बाद लंदन और बर्लिन, और इसके महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris.
The city spans a कुल of.
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the देश और the जातियाँ of मैड्रिड ( जिससे comprises the city of Madrid, its conurbation and extended suburbs and villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha.
As the capital city of Spain, seat of सरकारी, और निवास of the स्पेनी monarch, मैड्रिड is भी the राजनैतिक, आर्थिक और सांस्कृतिक centre of Spain.
the वर्तमान महापौर is ana botella इससे the लोगों 's Party ( PP ).
The Madrid urban agglomeration रै the third-largest जीडीपी in the यूरोपीय संघ और इसके प्रभाव in राजनीती, शिक्षा, entertainment, पर्यावरण, मीडिया, फ़ैशन, science, culture, and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities.
Due to its आर्थिक आउटपुट, ऊँची मानक of जीना, और मार्केट आकार, मैड्रिड is माना the प्रमुख वित्तीय केन्द्र of दक्षिणी यूरोपीय और the इबेरिया प्रायद्वीप ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies, such as Telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the महाद्वीप, और the सातवाँ सबसे visited नगर in the संसार according to फोर्ब्स.
Is the 10th सबसे livable नगर in the संसार according to monocle पत्रिका, in its 2010 index.
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > मैड्रिड is फिलहाल a प्रत्याशी नगर लिये the 2020 गर्मियाँ Olympics.
Madrid houses the headquarters of the संसार पर्यटन संगठन ( wto ), belonging to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र संगठन ( un ), the SEGIB, the Organization of Ibero-American States ( OEI ), and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
It also hosts major अंतरराष्ट्रीय संस्थानों regulators of स्पेनी : the खड़ा कमेटी of the संघ of स्पेनी भाषा अकादमियों, मुख्यालय of the royal स्पेनी अकादमी ( rae ), the cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ).
Madrid organizes मेलों as fitur, आरको, simo tci और the Cibeles Madrid Fashion Week.
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure, it रै preserved the dekh और महसूस of अनेक of इसके ऐतिहासिक neighbourhoods and streets.
Its landmarks include the royal राजमहल of मैड्रिड ; the teatro रियल ( royal थिएटर ) साथ इसके लौटी 1850 ओपेरा हाउस ; the buen retiro पार्क, संस्थापित in 1631 ; the 19th-century नेशनल पुस्तकालयों भवन ( संस्थापित in 1712 ) containing कुछ of स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख ; a विशाल क्रमांक of नेशनल संग्रहालय, and the Golden Triangle of Art, located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum, the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, a museum of modern art, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums.
Cibeles Palace and फव्वारा have become the स्मारक प्रतीक of the city.
The path of the via appia और of the via appia Traiana.
Remains of the appian रास्ता in रोम, निकट Quarto Miglio
निकट रोम.
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : via appia ) थी एक of the earliest और रणनीतिक सबसे महत्वपूर्ण रोमन सड़कें of the ancient republic.
It connected Rome to brindisi, apulia, in southeast Italy.
Its महत्व is indicated by इसके आम name, recorded by Statius :
appia teritur रेजिना longarum viarum
`` the appian रास्ता is the महारानी of the long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor जो began और समाप्त the पहला खण्ड as a सैन्य सड़क to the दक्षिण in 312 bc दौरान the samnite युद्धों.
The Draupner wave, a single दानव वेव measured on नई साल 's दिन 1995, आखिरकार पुष्टि the अस्तित्व of freak waves, which had previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves, monster waves, killer waves, चरम लहरें, और असामान्य लहरें ) हैं अपेक्षाकृत विशाल और spontaneous समंदर सतह लहरें कि occur दूर आउट at समुद्र, और हैं a threat even to large ships and ocean liners.
In oceanography, they are more precisely पारिभाषित as लहरें जिनकी ऊँचाई is अधिक than twice the significant वेव ऊँचाई ( swh ), जिससे is itself पारिभाषित as the औसत of the largest तीसरा of लहरें in a wave record.
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest लहरें मिला at समुद्र ; वे हैं, बल्कि, surprisingly विशाल लहरें for a given sea state.
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause, but occur where शारीरिक कारकों ऐसे as ऊँची हवाएँ और दमदार currents कारण लहरें to विलय to बनाएँ a सिंगल exceptional large wave.
Electress sophia of हनोवर ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is the ordered sequence of all those people योग्य to सफल to the सिंहासन of the संयुक्त किंगडम और the अन्य 15 राष्ट्रमंडल realms.
The Act of उपनिवेश 1701 bestowed उत्तराधिकार on the electress sophia of हनोवर और उसके वंशजों while excluding Roman Catholics.
The British government does not publish an official list of all those in line to सफल, लकिन the कार्य of genealogical लेखक और amateur शोधकर्ताओं suggests कि वहीँ हैं अनेक thousand people potentially in line.
At a समिट in पर्थ, पश्चिमी ऑस्ट्रेलिया in 2011, the heads of सरकारी of सब 16 राष्ट्रमंडल realms सहमत to लो कदम to adopt absolute primogeniture, end the exclusion of people married to Roman Catholics, and make other changes in the succession rules.
The line of succession is also used to select the counsellors of राज्य ( और a रीजेंट if the need arises ) अंतर्गत the provisions of the Regency Act 1937.
For earlier versions of the line of succession, देखिए इतिहास of the अंग्रेजों लकीर of उत्तराधिकार.
Edward मोंटगोमरी क्लिफ्ट ( अक्तूबर 17, 1920july 23, 1966 ) थी an अमरीकी फिल्मी और स्टेज कर्ता the नई यॉर्क times’ obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody, sensitive young men ''.
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; उदाहरण शामिल the सोशल climber in जार्ज स्टीवंस 's a प्लेस in the सूर्य, the anguished कैथोलिक पुजारी in हिचकॉक 's i कबूल, the doomed नियमित सिपाही रॉबर्ट E. ली prewitt in फ्रेड zinnemann 's इससे यहाँ to शाश्वत, and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions.
Later, after a disfiguring car क्रैश in 1956, और दारू और नुस्खा ड्रग गाली, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important roles were still his, including `` the reckless, alcoholic, mother-fixated रोडियो यजमान '' in जॉन हस्टन 's the misfits, the शीर्षक भूमिका in हस्टन 's, और the विशेषज्ञता शिविर शिकार in स्टेनली Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations during his करियर, तीन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता और एक लिये बेहतरीन supporting कर्ता.
The War on Terror ( also known as the वैश्विक युद्ध on आतंक ) is a पद commonly लागू to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान जिससे प्रारंभ as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.
This resulted in an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान to eliminate al-qaeda and other militant organizations.
The United Kingdom and many अन्य नाटो और non-nato राष्ट्र participate in the conflict.
The phrase 'War on Terror ' was first used by US अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश on 20 सितंबर 2001.
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the term to signify a वैश्विक सैन्य, राजनैतिक, lawful, और conceptual struggle—targeting दोनो organizations designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them.
It was typically प्रयुक्त साथ a particular फ़ोकस on उग्रवादी Islamists, al-Qaeda, and other jihadi groups.
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the पद विदेशी आकस्मिकता आपरेशन ), it is स्टिल commonly प्रयुक्त by राजनेता, in the मीडिया और by कुछ पहलुओं of सरकारी officially, ऐसे as the संयुक्त States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.
German battleship schleswig-holstein, westerplatte, September 1, 1939
Destroyer USS शॉ exploding बाद उसके आगे पत्रिका थी detonated दौरान the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World War II were nationalistic issues, अनसुलझे मुद्दे, और resentments resulting इससे संसार युद्ध i और the interwar काल in यूरोपीय, in जोड to the प्रभाव of the ग्रेट अवसाद in the 1930s.
The culmination of events कि led to the outbreak of युद्ध हैं generally समझा to be the 1939 आक्रमण of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan.
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the सत्तावादी सत्ताधारी नाजी elite in जर्मनी और by the नेतृत्व of the kwantung फौज in Japan.
World War II started बाद ये आक्रामक क्रियाएँ यहूद मिले साथ an आधिकारिक घोषणा of युद्ध and/or armed resistance.
The following is a सूची of देवताओं और अन्य दैवी और semi-divine आंकड़े from Greek mythology.
the सूची करता नहीं शामिल जीव ; लिये these, see List of Greek mythological creatures.
The मित्सुबिशी galant is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 and 2012.
The name was derived इससे the फ्रेंच शब्द galant, अर्थ `` chivalrous ''.
There have been nine distinct पीढियां, और संचयी बिक्री अभी exceed पाँच लाख.
It began as a compact सेडान, लकिन over the कोर्स of इसके जीवन रै विकसित into a larger mid-size car.
आरंभिक उत्पादन थी तभी आधारित in जापानी, लकिन चूंकि 1994 the अमरीकी मार्केट रै महरूम परोसा by वाहनों समवेत at the पूर्व diamond-star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal, Illinois.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial रक्त दबाव, is the दबाव exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels, and is one of the principal vital signs.
When used without further specification, `` blood दबाव '' प्रायः refers to the arterial दबाव of the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण.
During each heartbeat, blood दबाव varies between a अधिकतम ( systolic ) और a न्यूनतम ( diastolic ) pressure.
The रक्त दबाव in the परिसंचरण is प्रधानतया due to the pumping action of the heart.
Differences in mean blood pressure are जिम्मेदार लिये रक्त प्रवाह इससे एक स्थान to another in the circulation.
The rate of औसत रक्त प्रवाह depends on the प्रतिरोध to प्रवाह प्रस्तुत by the blood vessels.
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating रक्त चालें दूर इससे the दिल through धमनियों और capillaries due to viscous losses of energy.
Mean blood pressure drops over the पूरे परिसंचरण, हालांकि सबसे of the पतन occurs साथ the छोटी arteries and arterioles.
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic शक्तियां ( e.g., दौरान खड़ा ) और valves in रगों, श्वास, और pumping इससे संकुचन of skeletal मांसपेशियां भी influence blood pressure in veins.
Blood pressure without further specification प्रायः refers to the प्रणालीगत arterial दबाव measured at a व्यक्ति 's अपर भुजा और is a माप of the pressure in the brachial artery, the major artery in the upper arm.
a person’s रक्त दबाव is प्रायः expressed in शर्तें of the systolic दबाव over diastolic pressure and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ), for example 120/80.
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the शक्ति ( प्रयुक्त by an अधिकारी of the राज्य, लिये उदाहरण ) to unilaterally रोकें an आधिकारिक action, especially the enactment of legislation.
A veto can be absolute, as for instance in the United Nations Security Council, whose permanent सदस्यों ( चीन, फ़्रांस, रूस, संयुक्त किंगडम, संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ) can ब्लाक any resolution.
or it can be सीमित, as in the विधान प्रक्रम of the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation.
A veto only gives power to रोकें परिवर्तन, नहीं to अपनाना उन्हें ( except for the rare `` amendatory veto '' ).
Thus a veto allows इसके होल्डर to protect the status quo.
the अवधारणा of a वीटो देह originated साथ the रोमन consuls and tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could ब्लाक a सैन्य or सिविल निर्णय by the अन्य ; कोई ट्रिब्यून था the शक्ति to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate.
Sulfur डाइऑक्साइड ( भी गंधक डाइऑक्साइड ) is the रासायनिक compound with the formula.
it is a विषाक्त गैस साथ a pungent, तकलीफदेह महकते, कि is released by volcanoes and in various industrial processes.
Since coal and पेट्रोलियम प्रायः contain गंधक यौगिकों, उनके दहन generates गंधक डाइऑक्साइड जबतक the sulfur compounds are removed before burning the fuel.
Further ऑक्सीकरण of so2, प्रायः in the उपस्थिति of a उत्प्रेरक ऐसे as no2, फ़ॉर्म H2SO4, and thus acid rain.
Sulfur dioxide emissions हैं भी a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere.
Both of ये impacts हैं कारण लिये चिंता over the environmental impact of these fuels.
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '', `` कमज़ोरी '', और `` गंभीर '' ; abbreviated mg ) is an असंक्राम्य neuromuscular बीमारी अग्रणी to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability.
It is an autoimmune disorder, in जिससे कमज़ोरी is caused by circulating antibodies कि ब्लाक acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular जंक्शन, inhibiting the excitatory प्रभाव of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
myasthenia is treated medically साथ acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, and, in selected cases, thymectomy.
The disease incidence is 3–30 मामले प्रति लाख प्रति साल और उठती as a result of increased awareness.
MG must be distinguished इससे जन्मजात myasthenic syndromes कि can उपस्थित समान लक्षण लकिन प्रस्ताव no जवाब to immunosuppressive treatments.
Reflective twisted nematic द्रव क्रिस्टल प्रदर्शक.
Polarizing filter film with a लंबवत अक्ष to polarize light as it enters.
Glass substrate साथ ito electrodes.
The shapes of these electrodes होगा determine the आकार कि होगा appear when the LCD is turned ON.
लंबवत ridges etched on the सतह are smooth.
मुड़ nematic liquid crystal.
Glass substrate with common electrode film ( ito ) साथ आड़ा ridges to लकीर up साथ the आड़ा filter.
Polarizing फिल्टर फिल्मी साथ a आड़ा अक्ष to block/pass light.
Reflective surface to भेजें लाइट वापस to दर्शक.
( In a backlit एलसीडी, इस परत is replaced साथ a light source. )
A liquid-crystal प्रदर्शक ( एलसीडी ) is a चपटा फलक प्रदर्शक, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक विज़ुअल प्रदर्शक, or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals.
द्रव crystals do नहीं emit light directly.
LCDs are available to display arbitrary बिंब ( as in a general-purpose कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शक ) or फिक्स्ड बिंब जिससे can be प्रदर्शित or छुपा, ऐसे as preset शब्द, अंक, and 7-segment displays as in a digital clock.
They use the वही मौलिक प्रौद्योगिकी, मगर कि मनमानी बिंब हैं बना up of a विशाल क्रमांक of small pixels, while other displays have larger elements.
LCDs are used in a चौड़ी दायरा of अनुप्रयोग सहित कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर, टेलीविज़न, यंत्र panels, वायुयान कॉकपिट displays, and signage.
They are common in consumer devices such as वीडियो खिलाड़ी, गेमिंग डिवाइस, घड़ियाँ, घड़ियाँ, calculators, और telephones, और have replaced कैथोड ray tube ( CRT ) displays in most applications.
They are उपलब्धियाँ in a wider दायरा of स्क्रीन आकार than crt और प्लाज्मा प्रदर्शक, और चूंकि वे do not use phosphors, they do not suffer image burn-in.
LCDs are, however, susceptible to चित्र हठ.
The LCD screen is more उर्जा कुशल और can be disposed of more safely than a CRT.
Its low electrical power खपत enables it to be प्रयुक्त in बैटरी -powered इलेक्ट्रॉनिक equipment.
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of खण्ड भर साथ द्रव crystals और arrayed in सामने of a लाइट सोर्स ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome.
द्रव crystals यहूद पहला खोजा in 1888.
By 2008, worldwide sales of टेलीविज़न साथ एलसीडी screens exceeded सालाना बिक्री of crt इकाई ; the crt became obsolete for most purposes.
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a लक्ज़री होटल, कसीनो, और स्पा in अटलांटिक नगर, नई जर्सी, संयुक्त राज्य.
It is owned by Marina District Development, a संयुक्त venture between boyd गेमिंग और a divesture विश्वास स्थापित by mgm रिसॉर्ट अंतरराष्ट्रीय.
The $ 1.1 अरब कसीनो होटल सुविधाएँ 2,002 कक्ष और is the largest होटल in New Jersey.
The borgata खोली in जुलाई 2003 as a लास vegas-style megaresort and is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic City.
a बोतल of ऊँची potency b-complex vitamin supplement pills.
A विटामिन ( or ) is an सशुल्क यौगिक जरूरी by an सजीव as a vital nutrient in limited amounts.
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of यौगिकों ) is पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, और जरूर be प्राप्त इससे the diet.
Thus, the term is conditional दोनो on the हालातों और on the particular सजीव.
For example, ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for इंसानो, लकिन नहीं लिये सबसे अन्य पशु, और biotin और विटामिन D are required in the human diet only in certain circumstances.
by सम्मेलन, the पद विटामिन शामिल neither अन्य अनिवार्य nutrients, ऐसे as dietary खनिज, अनिवार्य वसीय acids, or अनिवार्य अमीनो acids ( जिससे हैं needed in larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often.
Thirteen vitamins हैं universally पहचाना at उपस्थित.
Vitamins are वर्गीकृत by उनके biological और रासायनिक कार्यकलाप, not their structure.
Thus, each `` vitamin '' refers to a क्रमांक of vitamer यौगिकों कि सब दिखाएँ the biological कार्यकलाप संबद्ध साथ a particular vitamin.
Such a set of chemicals is grouped अंतर्गत an alphabetized विटामिन `` जेनेरिक वर्णनकर्ता '' शीर्षक, ऐसे as `` विटामिन a ``, जिससे includes the compounds retinal, retinol, and four known carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the विटामिन in the देह, और हैं sometimes inter-convertible to एक another, as well.
Vitamins have विविध biochemical functions.
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of खनिज चयापचय ( ऐसे as विटामिन d ), or regulators of कोशिका और ऊतक विकास और differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ).
Others function as antioxidants ( e.g., विटामिन e और sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest number of vitamins ( such as B complex विटामिन ) फलन as precursors लिये एंजाइम cofactors, कि सहायता एंजाइमों in their work as catalysts in metabolism.
In इस भूमिका, विटामिन may be tightly बंधी to एंजाइमों as भाग of prosthetic समूह : For example, biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids.
Vitamins may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable अणुओं कि फलन to carry रासायनिक समूह or electrons between अणुओं.
For उदाहरण, फोलिक एसिड may carry मिथाइल, formyl, and methylene groups in the cell.
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate प्रतिक्रियाएँ हैं विटामिन ' best-known फलन, the अन्य विटामिन कृत्यों हैं बराबर महत्वपूर्ण.
Until the mid-1930s, जब the पहला वाणिज्यिक yeast-extract विटामिन b जटिल और semi-synthetic विटामिन c संपूरक टैबलेट यहूद बेची, विटामिन यहूद प्राप्त solely through खाना सेवन, और परिवर्तन in आहार ( जिससे, लिये उदाहरण, could occur दौरान a particular growing season ) usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested.
However, vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic और synthetic-source multivitamin dietary और खाना पूरक और एडिटिव, चूंकि the middle of the 20th century.
World Muslim जनसांख्यिकी by प्रतिशत ( pew शोध बीच, 2009 )
संसार मुस्लिम जनसांख्यिकी in millions
Islam is the संसार 's दूसरी largest धर्म बाद Christianity.
According to a 2010 पढ़ाई, islam रै 1.62 अरब adherents, बनाना up over 23 % of the संसार population.
islam is the predominant धर्म in the मध्य ईस्ट, in सहेल, in the Horn of Africa and northern Africa, and in some parts of Asia.
Large communities of मुसलमान हैं भी मिला in चीन, the balkans, और रूस.
Other parts of the world host large मुस्लिम अप्रवासी समुदायों ; in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, लिये उदाहरण, islam is the दूसरी largest धर्म after Christianity, where it represents 6 % of the total population.
according to the pew शोध बीच in 2010 वहीँ यहूद 49 muslim-majority countries.
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims live in दक्षिण और southeast एशिया, साथ over 1 अरब adherents.
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia, home to 12.7 % of the संसार 's मुसलमान, followed by पाकिस्तानी ( 11.0 % ), India ( 10.9 % ), and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of मुसलमान सजीव in Arab countries.
In the मध्य ईस्ट, the non-arab देशों of तुर्कों और इरान हैं the largest muslim-majority देशों ; in अफ़्रीकी, Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities.
A पढ़ाई conducted by the pew शोध बीच in 2010 और released January 2011 found that there are 1.62 billion Muslims around the world.
The study found more Muslims in the United किंगडम than in लेबनान और अधिक in चीन than in सीरियाई.
Rhode Island ( or ), officially the राज्य of rhode द्वीप और विधाता बागानों, is a state in the New England region of the United States.
Rhode Island is the smallest in क्षेत्रफल, the आठवीं तनिक populous, लकिन the दूसरी सबसे densely populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey.
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and मैसाचुसेट्स to the उत्तर और ईस्ट, और it साझा a जल boundary साथ नई यॉर्क 's long द्वीप to the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
Rhode Island थी the पहला of the 13 असली colonies to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे अंग्रेजों नियम, declaring itself स्वतंत्र on May 4, 1776, two months before any other colony.
The State was also the पिछला of the तेरह असली colonies to ratify the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` the समंदर राज्य '', a सन्दर्भ to the राज्य 's भूगोल, चूंकि rhode द्वीप रै अनेक विशाल bays और inlets कि राशि to about 14 % of its total area.
Its land area is, but its total क्षेत्रफल is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the United Arab Emirates, स्तिथ भीतर the अमीर of the वही नाम.
the अमीर of दुबई is स्तिथ on the southeast coast of the पारसी गल्फ on the arabian प्रायद्वीप and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country.
It has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest जमीन territory by क्षेत्रफल ( 4,114 km2 ) बाद abu धाबी.
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, the national capital, are the तभी दो अमीरात to have वीटो शक्ति over नाजुक matters of नेशनल महत्व in the देश 's legislature.
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's उत्तरी तटरेखा और heads up the dubai-sharjah-ajman metropolitan area.
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a देश or city-state और, in कुछ मामले, the uae as a पूरे रै महरूम described as 'Dubai '.
the earliest जिक्र of दुबई is in 1095 ad, और the earliest recorded settlement in the region dates from 1799.
The Sheikhdom of Dubai थी formally स्थापित in 1833 by शेख़ maktoum बिन butti al-maktoum जब he persuaded around 800 सदस्यों of उसके जनजाति of the bani yas, जीना in कया थी तब the दूसरी सऊदी राज्य और now part of Saudi Arabia, to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas.
It remained under the tribe 's control when the United Kingdom assumed सुरक्षा of the sheikhdom in 1892 और joined the nascent संयुक्त अरब अमीरात upon स्वतंत्रता in 1971 as the country 's second emirate.
Its strategic geographic location made the कस्बा an महत्वपूर्ण व्यापार हब और by the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी, दुबई थी already an important regional port.
Today, Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that has grown steadily to become a global city and a कारोबार और सांस्कृतिक हब of the मध्य ईस्ट और the पारसी Gulf region.
Although Dubai 's अर्थव्यवस्था थी historically निर्मित on the आयल उद्योग, the अमीर 's western-style मॉडल of business drives its economy with the main revenues now coming from tourism, real estate, and financial services.
Dubai has recently attracted world ध्यान through अनेक अभिनव विशाल निर्माण प्रोजेक्ट और खेल कार्यक्रम.
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings, such as the world 's tallest burj खलीफा, in जोड to महत्वाकांक्षी विकास प्रोजेक्ट सहित man-made आइलैंड्स, होटल, और कुछ of the largest खरीदारी मॉल in the प्रदेश और the world.
This increased attention has also highlighted मजदूर और इंसान अधिकारों मुद्दे concerning the नगर 's largely South Asian paid workforce.
Dubai 's property market experienced a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a परिणाम of the विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक downturn following the वित्तीय संकट of 2007-2008.
However, Dubai has made a steady and क्रमिक रिकवरी साथ सहायता coming इससे neighboring emirates.
The handful of new projects that are in the pipeline have been able to सहायता दुबई रियल एस्टेट मेक a वापसी.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the world, and the most महंगी नगर in the मध्य ईस्ट, surpassing इसराईल 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai has also been rated as one of the best places to live in the Middle East, सहित by us अमरीकी वैश्विक परामर्श कड़ मर्सर जो रेटेड the नगर as the बेहतरीन प्लेस to live in the Middle East in 2011.
The following is a सूची of कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the U.S. state of Illinois.
Surface of the Atlantic ocean meeting the धरती 's ग्रहीय boundary परत और क्षोभमण्डल.
Waves on an समंदर coast.
This animation uses Earth science data from a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to माप शारीरिक oceanography पैरामीटर्स ऐसे as समंदर currents, समंदर हवाएँ, समुद्र सतह height and sea surface temperature.
An ocean ( ; the संसार समंदर of शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता ) is a देह of saline जल कि composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere.
In the context of Earth, it refers to one or all of the major विभाजन of the ग्रह 's संसार समंदर – वे हैं, in descending अनुक्रम of क्षेत्रफल, the प्रशांत, अटलांटिक, भारतीय, दक्षिणी ( अंटार्कटिक ), और आर्कटिक Oceans.
The word `` sea `` is प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably साथ `` समंदर '', लकिन सख्ती बोलना a समुद्र is a देह of saline जल ( संभवतः a प्रभाग of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
Earth is the तभी ग्रह ज्ञात to have an समंदर ( or कोई विशाल amounts of open liquid water ).
लगभग 72 % of the ग्रह 's सतह ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline जल कि is customarily विभाजित into अनेक प्रिंसिपल महासागर और छोटी समंदर, with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface.
In terms of the hydrosphere of the Earth, the समंदर contains 97 % of the धरती 's जल.
Oceanographers have stated कि आउट of 97 %, तभी 5 % of the समंदर as a पूरे on Earth has been explored.
Because it is the principal घटक of धरती 's जलमंडल, the संसार समंदर is अभिन्न to सब known life, forms part of the carbon cycle, and influences climate and weather patterns.
the कुल आवाज़ is लगभग 1.3 अरब घन किलोमीटर ( 310 million cu mi ) with an average depth of.
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species, although much of the समंदर 's गहराइयों remain unexplored और it is अनुमानित कि over दो लाख समुद्री प्रजाति exist.
The उत्पत्ति of धरती 's महासागर is स्टिल अनजान, लकिन महासागर हैं believed to have formed in the hadean काल और may have been the impetus for the emergence of life.
Extraterrestrial oceans may be रचित of a चौड़ी दायरा of तत्व और यौगिकों.
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of टाइटन, हालांकि वहीँ is प्रमाण लिये the अस्तित्व of महासागर elsewhere in the सौर प्रणाली.
Early in their भूगर्भिक histories, मंगल और शुक्र हैं theorized to have had large water oceans.
The Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third of the surface of Mars was एकबार covered by जल, हालांकि the जल on मंगल is no longer oceanic, और a runaway ग्रीनहाउस प्रभाव may have boiled दूर the वैश्विक ocean of Venus.
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in जल निम्नतर इसके जमने पाइंट, so कि जल might मौजूद in विशाल quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice.
अपुष्ट महासागर हैं speculated beneath the सतह of अनेक बौना ग्रह and natural satellites ; notably, the ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth.
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are also believed to possess द्रव वायुमंडलीय परतों of yet to be पुष्टि compositions.
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons, including सतह महासागर of द्रव जल भीतर a परितारकीय ठहरने zone.
Ocean planets are a hypothetical type of ग्रह साथ a सतह completely covered with liquid.
Elvis Aaron प्रेस्ली ( जनवरी 8, 1935 – अगस्त 16, 1977 ) was an American singer and actor.
A सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक, he is commonly known by the single name Elvis.
One of the सबसे लोकप्रिय संगीतकारों of the 20th सदी, he is प्रायः referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King ''.
Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley moved to Memphis, टेनेसी, साथ उसके परिवार at the आयु of 13.
He began his career there in 1954, working साथ सूर्य रिकॉर्ड मालिक sam phillips, जो चाही to लाओ the ध्वनि of african-american म्यूज़िक to a wider audience.
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist विधेयक ब्लैक, प्रेस्ली थी the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -ड्राइवn fusion of country and rhythm and blues.
RCA Victor acquired उसके अनुबंध in a सौदे arranged by कर्नल tom पार्कर, जो गई on to मैनेज the singer for over two decades.
Presley 's first आरसीए सिंगल, `` heartbreak होटल ``, released in जनवरी 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of rock and फेंकें साथ a श्रेणी of संजाल टेलीविज़न दिखावे और chart-topping records.
His energized interpretations of songs, many from african-american स्त्रोत, और उसके uninhibited प्रदर्शन स्टाइल बना him enormously popular—and controversial.
In November 1956, he बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in प्रेम me टेंडर.
Drafted into military service in 1958, प्रेस्ली relaunched उसके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर दो सालो बाद साथ कुछ of उसके सबसे commercially कामयाब work.
He staged few concerts however, and guided by Parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to बनाना हॉलीवुड फिल्मों और साउंडट्रैक एल्बम, सबसे of them critically derided.
In 1968, after seven years away from the stage, he returned to live performance in a celebrated comeback television खास कि led to an विस्तारित लास वेगास कॉन्सर्ट रेसिडेंसी and a string of profitable tours.
In 1973 Presley मंचन the पहला कॉन्सर्ट ब्रॉडकास्ट globally via satellite, Aloha from Hawaii.
नुस्खा ड्रग गाली severely deteriorated उसके स्वास्थ्य, और he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42.
Presley is regarded as एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आंकड़े of 20th-century लोकप्रिय culture.
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide कामयाबी encompassing अनेक जाति, सहित देश, पॉप ballads, इन्जील, और blues.
he is the best-selling सोलो कलाकार in the इतिहास of popular music.
Nominated for 14 competitive Grammys, he जीती तीन, और प्राप्त the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार at age 36.
He has महरूम inducted into अनेक music halls of fame.
A glass of रूट बियर साथ झाग
रूट बियर is a कार्बोनेटेड, sweetened पेय, originally बना using the रूट of a sassafras plant ( or the bark of a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor.
Root बियर, popularized in उत्तर अमेरिका, आता in दो forms : alcoholic and soft drink.
The historical root beer was analogous to छोटी बियर in कि the प्रक्रम provided a पेय साथ a बहुत कम दारू सामग्री.
Although roots are used as the source of many नरम पेय throughout the संसार, प्रायः अलग names are used.
Fluorescent minerals emit दृश्य लाइट जब उजागर to पराबैंगनी light
प्रतिदीप्ति is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट by a पदार्थ कि रै अवशोषित लाइट or other electromagnetic radiation.
It is a रूप of संदीप्ति.
In सबसे मामले, the उत्सर्जित लाइट रै a longer wavelength, और इसलिए निम्नतर energy, than the absorbed radiation.
However, when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense, it is संभावित लिये एक इलेक्ट्रॉन to अवशोषित दो photons ; इस two-photon अवशोषण can सीसे to उत्सर्जन of विकिरण having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation.
The emitted विकिरण may भी be of the वही wavelength as the अवशोषित विकिरण, termed `` अनुनाद fluorescence ''.
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur when the absorbed radiation is in the ultraviolet region of the वर्णक्रम, और यूँ अदृश्य to the इंसान नजर, और the उत्सर्जित लाइट is in the visible region.
Fluorescence has many practical applications, including mineralogy, gemology, chemical sensors ( प्रतिदीप्ति स्पेक्ट्रमिकी ), fluorescent लेबलिंग, dyes, biological डिटेक्टरों, और, सबसे commonly, fluorescent दीये.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the सिद्धान्त of लॉजिक और लॉजिकल विचार बाहर of a formal setting.
However, perhaps because of the informal in the शीर्षक, the precise परिभाषा of अनौपचारिक लॉजिक is a पदार्थ of कुछ विवाद.
Ralph H. जॉनसन और J. एंथोनी ब्लेयर define अनौपचारिक लॉजिक as `` a शाखा of लॉजिक जिनकी कार्य is to develop non-formal मानकों, मापदण्ड, प्रक्रियाओं for the analysis, interpretation, evaluation, criticism and construction of argumentation. ''
This परिभाषा reflects कया था महरूम अव्यक्त in उनके अभ्यास और कया अन्य यहूद doing in their informal logic texts.
Informal logic is संबद्ध साथ ( अनौपचारिक ) fallacies, नाजुक सोच, the सोच कौशल गति और the interdisciplinary inquiry known as argumentation theory.
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label `` informal logic '' covers a `` collection of normative approaches to the पढ़ाई of तर्क in ordinary भाषा कि remain करीब to the अभ्यास of argumentation than औपचारिक logic. ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60, साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960, साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the ग्रेट अवसाद began in अगस्त of 1929, जब the संयुक्त States economy first went into an economic recession.
Although the country spent दो महीने साथ घटती जीडीपी, it थी नहीं जबतक the वॉल गली क्रैश of अक्तूबर, 1929 कि the प्रभाव of a declining economy were felt, and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued.
The market क्रैश चिह्नित the शुरूआत of a दशक of ऊँची बेरोजगारी, गरीबी, कम profits, अपस्फीति, plunging farm incomes, and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement.
Although its कल्याणकारी हैं स्टिल अनिश्चित और विवादास्पद, the जाल प्रभाव थी a अचानक और सामान्य घाटा of confidence in the economic future.
The usual explanations include numerous कारकों, विशेषकर ऊँची उपभोक्ता कर्ज़, ill-regulated बाज़ार कि permitted overoptimistic लोन by बैंको और निवेशकों, और the कमी of high-growth नई उद्योग, सब interacting to बनाएँ a downward आर्थिक सर्पिल of reduced spending, falling confidence, and lowered production.
उद्योग कि suffered the सबसे शामिल निर्माण, कृषि as dust-bowl शर्तें persisted in the agricultural heartland, शिपिंग, खनन, and logging as well as durable goods like automobiles and appliances that could be postponed.
the अर्थव्यवस्था पहुँचे नीचे in the शीत of 1932–33 ; तब आए चार सालो of बहुत रैपिड विकास until 1937, when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment.
The Depression caused प्रमुख राजनैतिक परिवर्तन in America.
Three years into the depression, Herbert Hoover खोया the 1932 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव to फ्रैंकलिन Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's आर्थिक रिकवरी योजना, the नई सौदे, instituted unprecedented कार्यक्रम लिये राहत, रिकवरी and reform, and brought about a major realignment of American politics.
The Depression also resulted in an बढ़ाएँ of करणों of लोगों to अन्य देशों लिये the first time in American history.
For example, some आप्रवासियों गई वापस to उनके देशी देशों, और कुछ देशी us नागरिकों went to Canada, Australia, and South Africa.
It also resulted in the mass migration of people from badly hit areas in the Great मैदान और the दक्षिण to स्थान ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the उत्तर, क्रमशः ( देखिए okies और the ग्रेट माइग्रेशन of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी ).
जातिगत तनाव भी increased during this time.
By the 1940s immigration had लौटे वापस to सामान्य, और करणों declined.
A well-known example of an emigrant थी फ़्रैंक mccourt, जो गई to आयरलैंड, as recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes.
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of अर्थशास्त्र और resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन in कैसा the सरकारी dealt साथ आर्थिक downturns, ऐसे as the use of stimulus packages, Keynesian economics, and Social Security.
It also shaped modern American साहित्य, resulting in प्रसिद्ध novels ऐसे as जॉन steinbeck 's `` the अंगूर of प्रकोप `` और `` Of Mice and Men ``.
The Great अवसाद of the 1930s प्रारंभ साथ the भण्डार market crash of October 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the गणतंत्र of तुर्कों, is a transcontinental देश, स्तिथ ज़्यादातर on Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe.
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : बुल्गारिया to the उत्तरपश्चिम ; यूनानियों to the वेस्ट ; जॉर्जिया to the पूर्वोत्तर ; अर्मेनिया, इरान और the अज़रबैजानी exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the ईजियन समुद्र is to the वेस्ट ; और the ब्लैक समुद्र is to the उत्तर.
The Sea of Marmara, the bosphorus और the dardanelles ( जिससे साथ रूप the तुर्की straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia ; they also separate Europe and Asia.
तुर्कों 's स्थान at the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय और एशिया makes it a देश of significant geostrategic importance.
The country 's आधिकारिक भाषा is तुर्की, a turkic भाषा, जिससे is बोला by लगभग 85 % of the population as mother tongue.
The most numerous ethnic group is the Turks, जो constitute between 70 % और 75 % of the जनसांख्यिकी according to the संसार Factbook.
Kurds are the largest ethnic minority and, according to the same source, क्रमांक around 18 % of the जनसांख्यिकी जबकि अन्य जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों हैं अनुमानित to be at 7–12 %.
The विशाल बहुमत of the population is Muslim.
The area now called Turkey has been inhabited चूंकि the paleolithic, सहित विभिन्न प्राचीन आनातोलियाई सभ्यताओं और thracian peoples.
After सिकंदर the ग्रेट 's conquest, the क्षेत्रफल थी hellenized, जिससे continued with the Roman rule and the transition into the Byzantine Empire.
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the क्षेत्रफल in the 11th सदी, starting the प्रक्रम of turkification, जिससे थी greatly त्वरित by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071.
The Seljuk सल्तनत of rûm शासित आनातोलिया जबतक the mongol आक्रमण in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks.
Starting from the late 13th century, the Ottoman beylik united आनातोलिया और निर्मित an साम्राज्य encompassing much of southeastern यूरोपीय, पश्चिमी एशिया और उत्तर Africa.
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following इसके शिकस्त in संसार युद्ध i, भाग of it यहूद occupied by the विजयी allies.
A cadre of young military officers, led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his सहयोगियों, व्यवस्थित a कामयाब प्रतिरोध to the allies ; in 1923 वे स्थापित the आधुनिक गणतंत्र of तुर्कों, साथ अतातुर्क as इसके पहला अध्यक्ष.
Turkey is a लोकतांत्रिक, धर्मनिरपेक्ष, एकात्मक, संवैधानिक republic with a diverse cultural heritage.
Turkey has become increasingly एकीकृत साथ the वेस्ट through सदस्यता in organisations such as the Council of Europe, NATO, OECD, OSCE and the G-20 major economies.
तुर्कों began पूरा सदस्यता negotiations साथ the यूरोपीय संघ in 2005, having महरूम an संबद्ध सदस्य of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered close cultural, राजनैतिक और आर्थिक संबंध साथ the मध्य ईस्ट, काकेशस, the turkic राज्य of सेंट्रल एशिया और the अफ़्रीकी देशों through सदस्यता in organisations such as the Turkic Council, Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation.
Turkey 's growing economy and diplomatic पहलों have led to इसके मान्यता as a क्षेत्रीय power.
Turkey is the संसार 's 17th largest अर्थव्यवस्था by नाममात्र जीडीपी और the 16th largest by purchasing power parity.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born नवम्बर 13, 1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated ब्लैक स्त्री in the गहन दक्षिण.
वो प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री और won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, she played oda mae भूरा, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) सहेजें उसके प्रेमी ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This प्रदर्शन जीती उसके a दूसरी सुनहरी ग्लोब और an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री ; इस बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास of the अकादमी Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable बाद films शामिल सिस्टर अधिनियम और सिस्टर अधिनियम 2, the खिलाड़ी, बना in अमेरिका, कैसा स्टेला Got Her Groove Back, Girl, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the बारटेंडर guinan in स्टार ट्रेक : the अगला पीढी, as टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश, और as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये 13 एमी पुरस्कार for her work in television.
She was co-producer of the लोकप्रिय खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड वर्गों from 1998 to 2004.
She has महरूम the मॉडरेटर of the दिन talk show The View since 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two दिन emmys, दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a टोनी ( लिये उत्पादन, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार, चार लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार, और रै महरूम honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is एक of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Award.
augusta is a संचित नगर in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया, located at the fall line of the Savannah River, at the head of its navigable portion.
As of the 2010 census, the augusta– रिचमंड काउंटी जनसांख्यिकी थी 195,844 नहीं गिनती the unconsolidated cities of Hephzibah and Blythe.
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area, which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877, making it both the second-largest नगर और the second-largest मैट्रो क्षेत्रफल in the राज्य बाद अटलांटा.
It is the 116th-largest नगर in the संयुक्त States.
Internationally, augusta is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये होस्टिंग the मास्टर्स टूर्नामेंट in golf each spring.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क जिससे contains data.
The name is an एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only memory ``.
कंप्यूटर can पढ़ा cd-roms, but can not write on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly प्रयुक्त to वितरित कंप्यूटर तन्त्र, सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया अनुप्रयोग, हालांकि any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी, जबकि आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as तन्त्र or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The पीला किताब is the तकनीकी मानक that defines the format of CD-ROMs.
One of a set of color-bound किताबे कि contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप, the पीला किताब, निर्मित by सोनी और फिलिप्स, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the स्वरूप to थाम कोई form of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as ब्लैक चीलों पहले 1986, और ज्ञात colloquially as the चीलों ) हैं a पेशेवर ice hockey team based in Chicago, Illinois.
वे हैं सदस्यों of the सेंट्रल प्रभाग of the पश्चिमी Conference of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
They have जीती चार स्टेनली कप championships चूंकि उनके founding in 1926, most recently in 2009–10.
The Blackhawks are one of the असली छह एनएचएल टीमों, साथ साथ the डेट्रॉयट रेड विंग्स, मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens, टोरंटो मेपल leafs, Boston Bruins and New York Rangers.
Since the ब्लैकहॉक्स have निभाई उनके घर खेल at the संयुक्त बीच बाद having खर्च 65 years playing at Chicago Stadium.
Lent याजकों carrying आउट a गली बारात during Holy Week.
The बैंगनी रंग is प्रायः संबद्ध साथ penance and detachment.
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in अन्य कैथोलिक देशों, sometimes संबद्ध साथ mortification of the flesh.
granada, निकारागुआ.
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical साल of अनेक ईसाई denominations, स्थायी लिये a काल of लगभग छह सप्ताह leading up to Easter Sunday.
In the general Latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent is taken to run from Ash बुधवार to maundy गुरुवार ( पावन गुरुवार ) morning or to ईस्टर Eve.
In the Catholic Church, Lent lasts जबतक पावन गुरुवार, जबकि अन्य denominations run until Easter Eve.
The परंपरागत purpose of lent is the तैयारी of the आस्तिक through दुआ, penance, repentance, almsgiving, and self-denial.
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of पावन सप्ताह, अंकन the मौत, दफ़न और क़यामत of यीशु, जिससे recalls the कार्यक्रम of the बाइबल जब यीशु is crucified on शुभ शुक्रवार, जिससे तब culminates in the जश्न on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.
During Lent, many of the वफादार कमिट to उपवास or giving up निश्चित प्रकार of luxuries as a form of penitence.
The Stations of the क्रॉस, a devotional commemoration of मसीह 's carrying the क्रॉस और of उसके execution, are often observed.
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove flowers from their altars, जबकि crucifixes, धार्मिक मूर्तियाँ, और अन्य विस्तृत धार्मिक प्रतीकों हैं प्रायः रहमत in बैंगनी fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain pious Catholic countries, some adherents चिह्नित the ऋतु साथ the परंपरागत abstention इससे the consumption of meat.
In some देशों, ग्रैंड धार्मिक जुलूसों और सांस्कृतिक कस्टम हैं observed, और the वफादार attempt to विज़िट seven churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary.
Lent is traditionally described as स्थायी लिये चालीस दिनों, in commemoration of the चालीस दिनों जिससे, according to the gospels of मैथ्यू, चिह्नित और ल्यूक, यीशु खर्च उपवास in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry, where he endured temptation by the Devil.
However, अलग ईसाई denominations गणना the forty days of Lent differently.
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of Lent ; यूँ the काल इससे राख बुधवार जबतक ईस्टर consists of 40 दिनों जब the sundays हैं excluded.
however in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर lent is अभी लिया to समाप्त on पावन गुरुवार बल्कि than ईस्टर Eve, and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays, or 44 days in total.
This event, along with its pious customs हैं observed by catholics, lutherans, methodists, Presbyterians, and Anglicans.
Location of chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति plant
The abandoned city of pripyat साथ chernobyl संयंत्र in the अलहदा
abandoned आवास ब्लॉक in pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ), जिससे थी अंतर्गत the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into the माहौल, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the western USSR and Europe.
The chernobyl विपत्ति is widely माना to have महरूम the worst नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र दुर्घटना in इतिहास, और is एक of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination और avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The आधिकारिक सोवियत casualty गिनती of 31 मौतों रै महरूम विवादित, और long-term प्रभाव such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for.
In व्याकरण, a विषय पूरक is a predicative अभिव्यक्ति कि फ़ॉलो a linking क्रिया ( copula ) और कि complements ( completes ) the subject of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
In the former case, a renaming noun phrase such as a संज्ञा or सर्वनाम is पुकारा a predicative नाममात्र.
An क्रियाशील following the copula और describing the subject is called a predicative adjective.
in either मामला the predicative complement in effect mirrors the subject.
Subject complements are used with a small class of क्रियाएँ पुकारा linking क्रियाएँ or copula, of जिससे be is the सबसे आम.
Since copula हैं stative क्रियाएँ, विषय complements हैं नहीं प्रभावित by any action of the verb.
Subject complements हैं typically नहीं clause वितर्क, nor हैं वे clause adjuncts.
Throughout the fifty-five year इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have महरूम set.
This page only शामिल the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार जीती by विभिन्न artists.
This does not include the various special awards कि हैं प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन उपलब्धि Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however does include other non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( ज्ञात as the शिल्प & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) कि may have महरूम प्रस्तुत to the artist ( s ).
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17, 1972 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम एमिनेम ( stylized as eminǝm ) और by उसके alter अहंकार पतला छायादार, is an अमरीकी rapper, record producer, songwriter and actor.
Eminem, along with his सोलो करियर, is a सदस्य of उसके समूह d12, और भी एक हाफ of the हिप हॉप duo ख़राब meets Evil, with Royce da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is one of the best-selling artists in the संसार और is the best-selling कलाकार of the 2000s.
He has been listed and ranked as one of the greatest artists of all time by many मैगज़ीन, सहित रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका जिससे क्रमित उसे 82nd on इसके सूची of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
The same magazine घोषित उसे the किंग of हिप हॉप.
Including his work with D12 and ख़राब meets दुष्ट, एमिनेम रै हासिल टेन number-one एल्बम on the Billboard 200.
He has बेची अधिक than 100 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, सहित 42 लाख ट्रैक्स और 49.1 लाख एल्बम in the United States.
As an भूमिगत rapper एमिनेम released उसके डेब्यू solo album, Infinite in 1996.
The album was a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक विफलता.
He gained मुख्यधारा लोकप्रियता in 1999 बाद the रिलीज of his major-label debut album The Slim Shady LP.
The LP also earned Eminem उसके पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Rap Album.
His next two records The Marshall mathers lp, और the एमिनेम दिखाएँ, भी जीती बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, बनाना एमिनेम the पहला कलाकार to जीत बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम for three consecutive LPs.
This was followed by another स्टुडियो रिलीज in 2004 titled Encore.
Eminem then went on अंतराल बाद touring in 2005.
He released उसके पहला एल्बम in पाँच सालो titled पतन, on May 15, 2009.
In 2010, एमिनेम released उसके सातवाँ studio album Recovery.
Recovery was an international कामयाबी और थी नामित the बेहतरीन selling एल्बम of 2010 विश्वव्यापी, joining the एमिनेम Show, which was the best seller of 2002.
एमिनेम जीती ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये दोनो पतन और रिकवरी, giving him a total of 13 Grammys in his career.
Eminem has opened other ventures, सहित उसके अपना रिकार्ड लेबल छायादार रिकॉर्ड साथ उसके मैनेजर Paul Rosenberg.
He भी रै उसके अपना रेडियो चैनल, Shade 45 on Sirius XM Radio.
Eminem began an acting career in 2002, जब he स्ट्रक्चर in the हिप हॉप नाटक फिल्मी 8 Mile.
he जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन असली सोंग, बनने the first rap artist ever to win the award.
He has also made कैमियो दिखावे in the धो ( 2001 ), मजेदार लोगों ( 2009 ) और the टेलीविज़न series Entourage.
The acre is a ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the इम्पीरियल and U.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – थोड़ा छोटी than an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल field.
The acre is no longer commonly प्रयुक्त, हालांकि a few notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, बर्मा और the संयुक्त Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still प्रयुक्त, to कुछ extent, in कनाडा.
The international प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac, और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a square mile.
The सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ आज is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre.
In the संयुक्त राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the थोड़ा अलग US survey acre are in use.
the सबसे आम उपयोग of the एकड़ is to measure tracts of land.
One अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 square metres.
दौरान the मध्य आयु, an एकड़ थी the राशि of जमीन कि could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of द्रव्यमान led to अनेक नई निष्कर्षों in the 19th सदी.
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions and जॉन डाल्टन 's परमाणु सिद्धान्त branched इससे the discoveries of एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये.
Lavoisier 's quantitative प्रयोग नाज़िल कि दहन शामिल ऑक्सीजन बल्कि than कया थी previously विचार to be phlogiston.
The law of conservation of mass, or principle of mass conservation, states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy ( both of जिससे have द्रव्यमान ), the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली जरूर remain निरंतर over समय, as प्रणाली द्रव्यमान can नहीं बदलें मात्रा if it is नहीं added or removed.
Hence, the मात्रा of द्रव्यमान is `` conserved '' over time.
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed, although it may be rearranged in स्पेस, or the entities संबद्ध साथ it may be बदला in रूप, as लिये उदाहरण जब लाइट or शारीरिक कार्य is रूपांतरित into अणु कि योगदान the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed.
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical प्रतिक्रिया, नाभिकीय प्रतिक्रिया, or रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय in an पृथक प्रणाली, the द्रव्यमान of the reactants or starting सामग्री जरूर बराबर the mass of the products.
The concept of mass conservation is widely प्रयुक्त in अनेक फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रसायन, यांत्रिकी, और fluid dynamics.
Historically, mass संरक्षण थी खोजा in रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये in the लेट 18th सदी, और थी of निर्णायक importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry.
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high सन्निकटन कि it विफल तभी लिये the ऊँची energies treated by the बाद refinements of आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त, लकिन वरना remains उपयोगी और fear सटीक लिये सबसे रासायनिक calculations, even in modern practice.
In special relativity, needed लिये सटीकता जब विशाल उर्जा हस्तांतरण between प्रणालियों is शामिल, the अंतर between thermodynamically बंद और पृथक प्रणालियों becomes महत्वपूर्ण, चूंकि संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान is सख्ती और perfectly upheld तभी लिये so-called पृथक systems, i.e. those completely isolated from all exchanges with the environment.
In this circumstance, the mass-energy equivalence प्रमेय राज्य कि द्रव्यमान संरक्षण is समतुल्य to कुल उर्जा संरक्षण, जिससे is the पहला विधि of thermodynamics.
By contrast, for a thermodynamically closed प्रणाली ( i.e., एक जिससे is बंद to exchanges of पदार्थ, लकिन खोलें to exchanges of non-material उर्जा, ऐसे as ऊष्मा और कार्य, साथ the surroundings ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved.
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory, although the change is usually small, चूंकि अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of ऐसे उर्जा ( by तुलना साथ ordinary अनुभव ) carry तभी a छोटी राशि of द्रव्यमान ( again by ordinary मानकों of measurement ).
In special relativity, mass is not converted to energy, since energy in all of इसके फ़ॉर्म सदा retains इसके समतुल्य राशि of द्रव्यमान throughout कोई परिवर्तन or translocation into, or out of, a system.
However, certain types of matter ( a अलग अवधारणा ) may be परिवर्तित to उर्जा, so long as the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली is अपरिवर्तित in the process.
However, if such energy is removed इससे प्रणालियों, वे जरूर खोना the द्रव्यमान कि is संबद्ध with it.
In general relativity, द्रव्यमान ( और उर्जा ) संरक्षण in expanding आयतन of स्पेस is a जटिल अवधारणा, विषय to अलग परिभाषाएं, and neither mass nor energy is as strictly and simply conserved as is the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space.
For a discussion, see mass in सामान्य आपेक्षिकता.
A pig is any of the पशु in the genus सस, भीतर the suidae परिवार of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the घरेलू सुअर, इसके पूर्वज the जंगली boar, और अनेक अन्य जंगली रिश्तेदारों.
Young और छोटी सूअर हैं ज्ञात as piglets.
सूअर हैं omnivores और are highly social and intelligent animals.
8-inch, -inch, और -inch फ्लॉपी डिस्क
8-inch, -inch ( पूरा ऊँचाई ), और -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' चुम्बकीय सामग्री, removed इससे इसके आवास
A floppy disk, or diskette, is a डिस्क भंडार मीडियम रचित of a डिस्क of पतला और लचीली चुम्बकीय भंडार मीडियम, sealed in a rectangular plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles.
They are read and लिखा by a फ्लॉपी डिस्क ड्राइव ( FDD ).
Floppy disks, initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes, were a सर्वव्यापी रूप of आंकड़ा भंडार और एक्सचेंज इससे the mid-1970s खूब into the पहला दशक of the 21st सदी.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy ड्राइव support ; `` floppies could be प्रयुक्त as an बाह्य usb ड्राइव, लकिन ``, 8 ``, और non-standard drives could only be handled by old equipment.
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses, especially with legacy industrial computer equipment, they have been superseded by आंकड़ा भंडार विधि साथ much वृहद क्षमता, ऐसे as usb फ्लैश ड्राइव, पोर्टेबल बाह्य मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव, ऑप्टिकल discs, memory cards, and computer networks.
An एनिमेटेड आरेख of a cutter
In baseball, a cutter, or cut fastball, is a type of fastball जिससे ब्रेक थोड़ा toward the पिचर 's दस्ताने पक्ष as it पहुँच घर plate.
This pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball, as it is प्रायः thrown तेज़ than a स्लाइडर लकिन साथ अधिक गति than a typical fastball.
Some pitchers उपयोग a कटर as a रास्ता to prevent hitters इससे expecting their regular fastballs.
a आम तकनीक प्रयुक्त to throw a कटर is to उपयोग a four-seam fastball grip with the baseball set slightly off center in the hand.
When a batter is able to hit a कटर पिच, it प्रायः परिणाम in नरम सम्पर्क और an आसान आउट, due to the pitch 's movement keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot.
The cutter is typically 2–5 किमी धीमा than a पिचर 's four-seam fastball.
In 2010, the औसत पिच वर्गीकृत as a कटर by pitchf/x thrown by a right-handed पिचर थी 88.6 किमी ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph.
`` What It takes '' is a शक्ति ballad by अमरीकी hard rock band Aerosmith.
It was written by स्टीवन टायलर, जो पेरी, और डेसमंड चाइल्ड.
It was released in 1990 as the तीसरा सिंगल इससे एरोस्मिथ 's critically और commercially successful 1989 album Pump.
In the वीडियो the बनाना of पंप, a & r man जॉन Kalodner described the song as `` a masterpiece ''.
During live performances, Tyler sings the first verse a cappella and belts out एक of उसके हस्ताक्षर चिल्लाती सही पहले the कोरस.
The album version of the सोंग is followed by an बेनाम छुपा track.
सिर of odysseus इससे a यूनानी 2nd सदी bc संगमरमर समूह representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus, found at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an प्राचीन रोमन मोज़ेक of ulysses in ट्यूनीशिया
Odysseus ( or ; Greek :, ), also known by the Roman नाम ulysses ( ; ), थी a legendary यूनानी किंग of ithaca और a नायिका of होमर 's एपिक कविता the ओडिसी.
Odysseus also plays a कुंजी भूमिका in होमर 's इलियड और अन्य works in that same Epic Cycle.
Husband of Penelope, father of Telemachus, and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea, Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance, छल, और versatility ( polytropos ), और is hence ज्ञात by the epithet odysseus the cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning प्रज्ञा `` ).
He is most famous for the ten eventful सालो he took to वापसी घर बाद the decade-long trojan युद्ध और उसके प्रसिद्ध Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy.
Erie is a statutory कस्बा in बोल्डर और वेल्ड काउंटी in the U.S. state of Colorado.
The जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135 और थी अंकित as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25 लिये आसान अभिगम to i-70, डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र और कोलोराडो 's संपूर्ण Front Range.
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles, extending from the north side of राज्य राजमार्ग 52 दक्षिण to राज्य राजमार्ग 7, और between us 287 on the वेस्ट and Interstate 25 to the east.
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from Denver अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, 25 मिनट्स to डेनवर और 20 मिनट्स इससे Boulder.
the फलक of trustees serves as the विधान और शासी देह of the कस्बा of erie और is जिम्मेदार for establishing Town policies and goals.
The Board has the authority to adopt laws, ordinances and रिज़ॉल्यूशन as needed to conduct the कारोबार of the कस्बा, और by अध्यादेश may डालें into अनुबंध or intergovernmental समझौतों to furnish, प्राप्त सेवाएं or to provide लिये सहकारी सेवा डिलीवरी.
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, the Town Administrator is the chief operating and प्रशासनिक अधिकारी of the कस्बा और is जिम्मेदार लिये providing पेशेवर नेतृत्व in the प्रशासन और निष्पादन of नीतियों और उद्देश्य formulated by the Board.
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to communicate और कार्य साथ the जातियाँ to maintain a सुरक्षित पर्यावरण, prevent अपराधों और enforce the विधि, while protecting the rights of all.
Erie Municipal Airport ( eik ) is स्वामित्व और संचालित by the कस्बा of erie और is रणनीतिक स्तिथ in the denver-boulder महानगर क्षेत्रफल on Colorado Highway 7, a little over three miles west of Interstate 25.
The main रनवे is कंक्रीट प्रशस्त और 4,700 feet long.
The is a home video game console उत्पादित by सोनी कंप्यूटर entertainment.
It is the successor to the प्लेस्टेशन 2, as भाग of the PlayStation series.
The PlayStation 3 competes साथ microsoft 's एक्सबॉक्स 360 और निन्टेंडो 's वी as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
It was first released on नवम्बर 11, 2006, in जापानी, साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय बाज़ार following shortly thereafter.
The console was पहला officially घोषित at E3 2005.
Originally set for a spring 2006 रिलीज तिथि, it थी विलम्बित अनेक टाइम्स जबतक आखिरकार hitting स्टोर्स at the end of the year.
It was the पहला और फिलहाल तभी console to use Blu-ray Disc as its primary storage medium.
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service, the PlayStation संजाल, और इसके कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल और प्लेस्टेशन वीटा, in सितंबर 2009 the अद्यतनीकृत प्लेस्टेशन 3 Slim, was released.
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the असली संस्करण, हालांकि it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 पीछे संगतता ( removed on बाद असली मॉडल ), लकिन notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design.
As of November 4, 2012, 70 लाख प्लेस्टेशन 3s have महरूम sold worldwide.
Its successor, प्लेस्टेशन 4, is नियत लिये a q4 2013 release.
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto dalí i domènech, 1st marqués de dalí de pubol ( may 11, 1904january 23, 1989 ), ज्ञात as साल्वाडोर dalí ( ), was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres, Spain.
Dalí was a skilled draftsman, बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the striking और विचित्र images in his surrealist work.
His painterly skills हैं प्रायः attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters.
His best-known work, The हठ of मेमोरी, थी समाप्त in 1931.
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film, मूर्तिकला, और छायाचित्र, in सहयोग साथ a दायरा of कलाकारों in a variety of media.
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my passion for luxury and my प्रेम of प्राच्य कपडे '' to a self-styled `` अरब lineage '', claiming कि उसके पूर्वजो were descended from the Moors.
Dalí was highly imaginative, और भी enjoyed indulging in असामान्य और वैभवशाली बर्ताव.
His eccentric manner और attention-grabbing पब्लिक क्रियाएँ sometimes खींचा अधिक ध्यान than उसके कलाकृति, to the dismay of those जो आयोजित उसके कार्य in high esteem, and to the irritation of his critics.
पारस प्लेटो by silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that पढ़ाई इंसान संस्कृति, using विधि कि हैं primarily विश्लेषणात्मक, नाजुक, or सट्टे, और having a significant ऐतिहासिक element, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.
The humanities शामिल प्राचीन और आधुनिक भाषाएं, साहित्य, दर्शनशास्त्र, धर्म, and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre.
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences शामिल इतिहास, मानवशास्त्र, क्षेत्रफल अध्ययन, संचार अध्ययन, सांस्कृतिक अध्ययन, विधि, अर्थशास्त्र and linguistics.
विद्वानों working in the मानवता हैं sometimes described as `` humanists ''.
However, that term also describes the philosophical position of मानवतावाद, जिससे कुछ `` antihumanist `` विद्वानों in the humanities reject.
Some secondary schools offer मानवता वर्ग, प्रायः consisting of अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य, वैश्विक studies, and art.
Human disciplines like history, cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject matters to which the प्रायोगिक विधि करता नहीं लागू, और वे have अभिगम बजाय to the तुलनात्मक विधि और तुलनात्मक शोध.
the 2005 ब्लू रूम Christmas Tree
The White House Christmas Tree, also known as the Blue रूम क्रिसमस पेड़, is the आधिकारिक अंदर क्रिसमस पेड़ at the निवास of the अध्यक्ष of the United States, the White House.
The first indoor Christmas tree थी संस्थापित in the श्वेत हाउस sometime in the 19th सदी ( वहीँ हैं varying दावा as to the सटीक साल ) और चूंकि 1961 the पेड़ रै था a प्रसंग motif at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States.
The अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ( potus ) is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of government of the United States.
The अध्यक्ष लीड the कार्यपालिका शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी और is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the निष्पादन of संघीय विधि, alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका, राजनयिक, नियामक, और न्यायिक अधिकारियों, और concluding treaties साथ विदेशी शक्तियां, साथ the सलाह और सहमति of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, और to convene और adjourn either or दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत असाधारण हालातों.
Since the founding of the संयुक्त राज्य, the शक्ति of the अध्यक्ष और the संघीय सरकारी have grown substantially और प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no औपचारिक विधान powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is अक्सर वर्णित as the सबसे शक्तिशाली व्यक्ति in the world.
The president is indirectly निर्वाचित by the लोगों through the चुनावी कॉलेज to a four-year पद, और is एक of तभी दो nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the United States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने निर्वाचित to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if कि व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष, or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, बराक ओबामा became the 44th और current president.
On November 6, 2012, he थी re-elected और is अनुसूचित to serve जबतक जनवरी 20, 2017.
Senses हैं physiological capacities of जीवों that provide data for perception.
The senses and their operation, classification, और सिद्धान्त हैं अतिव्यापी विषय पढ़ाई by a किस्में of फ़ील्ड, सबसे notably neuroscience, संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान ( or संज्ञानात्मक विज्ञान ), और philosophy of perception.
The nervous प्रणाली रै a विशिष्ट संवेदी प्रणाली or organ, dedicated to each sense.
इंसानो have a multitude of senses.
sight ( ophthalmoception ), सुनना ( audioception ), स्वाद ( gustaoception ), महकते ( olfacoception or olfacception ), and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized.
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists, including temperature ( thermoception ), kinesthetic भाव ( proprioception ), पीड़ा ( nociception ), संतुलन ( equilibrioception ), त्वरण ( kinesthesioception ), और विभिन्न आतंरिक stimuli ( e.g. the अलग chemoreceptors लिये detecting नमक और carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood ), only a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves.
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some बहस, अग्रणी to कठिनाइयों in धमक कया exactly a sense is.
Animals also have receptors to भाव the संसार around उन्हें, साथ डिग्री of काबिलियत varying greatly between species.
Humans have a comparatively कमजोर भाव of महकते, जबकि कुछ पशु may कमी एक or more of the traditional five senses.
Some animals may also intake और interpret संवेदी stimuli in बहुत अलग तरीके.
Some species of पशु हैं समर्थ to भाव the संसार in a रास्ता कि इंसानो can नहीं, साथ कुछ प्रजाति समर्थ to भाव विद्युत और चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड, and detect water pressure and currents.
Spiders ( order araneae ) हैं air-breathing arthropods कि have आठ टाँगे और chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest अनुक्रम of arachnids और रैंक सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति विविधता among all other groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on प्रत्येक महाद्वीप मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक, और have become स्थापित in nearly प्रत्येक आवास साथ the एक्सेप्शन of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 मकड़ी प्रजाति, और 109 परिवारों have महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however, वहीँ रै महरूम भ्रम भीतर the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as to कैसा सब ये परिवारों चाहिए be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 अलग classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
anatomically, मकड़ियों differ इससे अन्य arthropods in कि the usual देह segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, मकड़ियों do नहीं have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the mesothelae, मकड़ियों have the सबसे centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of सब arthropods, as सब उनके ganglia हैं fused into एक द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs और बजाय extend उन्हें by हाइड्रोलिक दबाव.
Their abdomens भालू appendages कि have महरूम परिवर्धित into spinnerets कि extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
मकड़ी webs vary widely in आकार, आकार और the amount of sticky thread used.
It अभी appears कि the सर्पिल orb वेब may be एक of the earliest फ़ॉर्म, और spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल परिचय, लकिन ये पशु जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in carboniferous रॉक्स इससे, और हैं बहुत समान to the सबसे आदिम surviving order, the Mesothelae.
the प्रमुख समूह of आधुनिक मकड़ियों, mygalomorphae और araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी, ज़्यादातर preying on कीट और on अन्य मकड़ियों, हालांकि a few विशाल प्रजाति भी लो birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture शिकार : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing कंपन, लकिन the क्रियाशील hunters have अधि दृष्टि, और hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts हैं too सीमित to लो solids, और वे liquidize उनके खाना by बाढ़ it साथ digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male मकड़ियों पहचानो themselves by a किस्में of जटिल प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid being eaten by the females.
Males of most species जीवित a few matings, सीमित मुख्यतः by their short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, each of जिससे may contain सैंकड़ों of eggs.
महिलाओं of अनेक प्रजाति परवाह लिये उनके यंग, लिये उदाहरण by carrying them around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of species are social, building communal webs that may हाउस anywhere इससे a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the विधवा मकड़ियों, to co-operative शिकार और food-sharing.
Although most spiders सजीव लिये at सबसे दो सालो, tarantulas और अन्य mygalomorph मकड़ियों can live up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, scientists are now researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to कि of सिंथेटिक सामग्री, और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have महरूम inserted into स्तनधारियों और पौधे to देखिए if ये can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their चौड़ी दायरा of व्यवहार, मकड़ियों have become आम प्रतीकों in आर्ट और mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Grey 's Anatomy is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न चिकित्सा नाटक कि premiered on the अमरीकी प्रसारण कम्पनी ( एबीसी ), as a mid-season बदलना on March 27, 2005.
The श्रेणी रै aired नौ सीज़न, और focuses on the fictional जीवनदान of सर्जिकल interns और निवासियों as वे gradually evolve into seasoned doctors, while trying to maintain personal lives.
The show 's premise originated with Shonda rhimes, जो serves as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता, साथ साथ बेट्सी beers, Mark Gordon, Krista Vernoff, Rob Corn, Mark Wilding, and Allan Heinberg.
The श्रेणी थी निर्मित to be racially diverse, utilizing a color-blind casting technique.
It is primarily फिल्माया in लॉस एंजिल्स, California.
The श्रेणी ' समर्थक is dr. मेरेडिथ धूसर ( एलेन pompeo ), जो originally is स्वीकृत into the रेसिडेंसी program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital.
Meredith is आबंटित to कार्य अंतर्गत dr. मिरांडा बेली ( चन्द्रा विल्सन ), साथ साथ dr. क्रिस्टीना यांग ( सैंड्रा oh ), dr. George O'Malley ( T. R. Knight ), Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ), and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following O'Malley 's death और स्टीवंस ' प्रस्थान, the हॉस्पिटल 's विलय साथ रहमत वेस्ट brings in dr. जैक्सन एवेरी ( जेसी विलियम्स ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ), in the sixth season.
The surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James pickens, jr. ), जो is आखिरकार replaced by dr. डेरेक गड़रिये ( पैट्रिक डेम्पसे ), और later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ).
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season, and is replaced by dr. एरिका hahn ( ब्रुक स्मिथ ), जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ दौरान the पांचवां ऋतु, और बाद dr. टेडी altman ( किम raver ), जो प्रस्थान at the end of the eighth season.
Introduced in the second season is Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ), who पत्ते the दिखाएँ at the समाप्त of the तीसरा ऋतु, in अनुक्रम to लॉन्च उसके अपना spin-off medical drama Private Practice.
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the show in the दूसरी ऋतु, जबकि the latter मरता in the प्रीमियर of the नवीं season.
Meredith 's half-sister, dr. lexie धूसर ( chyler leigh ), appears इससे ऋतु तीन और मरता at the end of season eight.
Dr. Arizona रॉबिन्स ( जेसिका capshaw ) is दिए श्रेणी नियमित औकात at the beginning of the sixth season.
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated नाटक in the कुंजी 18–49 जनसांख्यिकी.
Previously among the overall top-ten रेटेड shows in the संयुक्त राज्य, धूसर 's anatomy रै महरूम खूब प्राप्त by critics.
Considered an impact on संस्कृति, the श्रेणी रै प्राप्त numerous पुरस्कार, और रै also been included in various critics ' top ten lists.
The show has produced several specials, as खूब as वितरित सब सीज़न to dvd, और released a संग्रहण of merchandise.
In 2012, Grey 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest आय कमाई दिखाएँ, in शर्तें of विज्ञापन per half-hour.
On May 11, 2012, the series was नवीनीकृत लिये a नवीं ऋतु, जिससे premiered on सितंबर 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a दिमागी विकार characterized by a विश्लेषण of विचार प्रक्रियाओं और by a deficit of typical emotional responses.
Common symptoms शामिल auditory मति, paranoid or विचित्र delusions, or disorganized वाक और thinking, and it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in यंग adulthood, साथ a वैश्विक आजीवन व्यापकता of परिचय 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is आधारित on observed बर्ताव और the रोगी 's reported अनुभवों.
Genetics, early environment, neurobiology, and psychological and social प्रक्रियाओं appear to be महत्वपूर्ण contributory कारकों ; कुछ recreational और नुस्खा दवाएँ appear to कारण or worsen symptoms.
वर्तमान शोध is केन्द्रित on the भूमिका of neurobiology, हालांकि no single isolated organic cause has been found.
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the निदान represents a सिंगल विकार or a क्रमांक of अलहदा syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek जड़ें skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to विभाजित '' ) और phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` दिमाग '' ), schizophrenia करता नहीं imply a `` विभाजित व्यक्तित्व '', or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception.
Rather, the term means a `` splitting of दिमागी कृत्यों '', क्युकी of the symptomatic प्रस्तुतीकरण of the illness.
The mainstay of उपचार is antipsychotic दवा, जिससे primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
Psychotherapy and vocational and social पुनर्वास हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण in treatment.
In more गंभीर cases—where वहीँ is रिस्क to स्वः और others— involuntary hospitalization may be जरुरी, हालांकि हॉस्पिटल stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were.
The disorder is thought mainly to affect संज्ञान, लकिन it भी प्रायः contributes to दीर्घकालिक problems with behavior and emotion.
People with schizophrenia हैं संभावित to have अतिरिक्त ( comorbid ) शर्तें, सहित प्रमुख अवसाद और चिंता विकार ; the आजीवन occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 %.
Social problems, such as long-term बेरोजगारी, गरीबी, और homelessness हैं आम.
The औसत जीवन प्रत्याशा of लोगों साथ the विकार is 12 to 15 सालो कम than those बगैर, the result of increased physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ).
Paul Leslie snider ( अप्रैल 15, 1951–august 14, 1980 ) थी the estranged husband और मैनेजर of प्लेबॉय मॉडल डोरोथी stratten, जिसको he murdered पहले killing himself the same day.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of साहित्य.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian लिये gilgamesh ), किंग of Uruk.
Four of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री for a combined epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` बूढ़ा babylonian '' संस्करण, तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled बाद इसके incipit, shūtur एली sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have बच.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
fragments of लगभग दो तिहाई of इस longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
Some of the best copies were discovered in the पुस्तकालयों तबाह of the 7th-century bc assyrian किंग ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a दोस्ती between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the देवताओं as gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract उसे इससे oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they यात्रा to the देवदार पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba, इसके monstrous guardian.
Later they मार the सांड of स्वर्ग, जिससे the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these क्रियाएँ, the देवताओं वाक्य enkidu to death.
The दूसरी हाफ of the एपिक focuses on gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to सीख the रहस्य of अनन्त जीवन, gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey.
he learns कि `` the जीवन कि तुम are seeking you will never find.
When the देवताओं निर्मित man वे आवंटित to उसे मौत, लकिन जीवन they retained in their own keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to siduri in the बूढ़ा babylonian संस्करण of the एपिक, और तब attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's कीर्ति जिया on बाद उसके मौत, क्युकी of उसके ग्रेट भवन प्रोजेक्ट, और उसके खाता of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has been अनूदित into अनेक अलग भाषाएं, और gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A सुकेन्द्रिक ( or ) is an सजीव जिनकी कोशिकाएं contain complex structures enclosed within membranes.
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the टैक्सोन eukarya or Eukaryota.
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic कोशिकाएं अलावा इससे prokaryotic कोशिकाएं is the केंद्रक, or नाभिकीय लिफाफा, भीतर जिससे the जेनेटिक सामग्री is carried.
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which आता इससे the यूनानी ( eu, `` शुभ '' ) और ( karyon, `` नट '' or `` कर्नेल '' ).
Most eukaryotic कोशिकाएं भी contain अन्य membrane-bound organelles ऐसे as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus.
All large जटिल जीवों हैं eukaryotes, सहित animals, plants and fungi.
the समूह भी शामिल अनेक unicellular organisms.
Cell division in eukaryotes is अलग इससे कि in जीवों बगैर a केंद्रक ( prokaryote ).
It involves separating the duplicated गुणसूत्रों, through आंदोलनों निर्देशित by microtubules.
There हैं दो प्रकार of प्रभाग processes.
In mitosis, one कोशिका divides to उपज दो genetically एकसमान cells.
In meiosis, which is जरूरी in यौन जनन, एक द्विगुणित कोशिका ( having दो उदाहरण of प्रत्येक chromosome, एक इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) undergoes recombination of each pair of parental chromosomes, and then two stages of cell division, resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ).
Each gamete has just one complement of गुणसूत्रों, प्रत्येक a अद्वितीय मिक्सर of the सम्बन्धित जोड़ी of parental chromosomes.
Eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, और so makes up एक of the तीन डोमेन of life.
The two other domains, Bacteria और आर्किया, हैं prokaryotes और have none of the above features.
eukaryotes represent a छोटा अल्पसंख्यक of सब जीना बाते ; भी in a इंसान देह there are 10 times more microbes than human cells.
however, due to उनके much larger आकार उनके सामूहिक worldwide biomass is estimated at about equal to that of prokaryotes.
They are माना to have पहला विकसित लगभग 1.6–2.1 अरब years ago.
The use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise take लाभ of उन्हें, लिये उदाहरण by चोरी निजी सूचना, जिससे can भी सीसे to identity theft.
A very आम रूप of अंतरजाल धोखाधड़ी is the वितरण of rogue security software.
Internet services can be used to उपस्थित बेईमान solicitations to prospective पीड़ितों, to conduct बेईमान ट्रांजेक्शन, or to संचारण the proceeds of धोखाधड़ी to वित्तीय संस्थानों or to others connected with the scheme.
Internet धोखाधड़ी can occur in गपशप कक्ष, ईमेल, संदेश boards, or on websites.
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a नाटो -led सुरक्षा मिशन in अफगानिस्तान कि थी स्थापित by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद in December 2001 by Resolution 1386, as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement.
Its main purpose is to train the Afghan National सुरक्षा शक्तियां ( ansf ) और assist अफगानिस्तान in पुनर्निर्माण कुंजी सरकारी संस्थानों लकिन is भी engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups.
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul और surrounding क्षेत्रों इससे the तालिबान, al qaeda और factional warlords, so as to allow लिये the स्थापना of the अफगान transitional प्रशासन headed by Hamid Karzai.
In October 2003, the UN Security Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF मिशन throughout अफगानिस्तान, और isaf subsequently विस्तारित the मिशन in चार प्रमुख चरण over the whole of the country.
From 2006 to 2011, ISAF had been involved in increasingly अधिक intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन in दक्षिणी और पूर्वी Afghanistan.
Troop योगदानकर्ता शामिल इससे the संयुक्त राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, नाटो member states and a number of other countries.
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly, with the United States, संयुक्त किंगडम, और कनाडा sustaining the बहुमत of हताहत in intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन, साथ अन्य योगदानकर्ता sustaining significantly कम.
As of early 2010, there यहूद at तनिक 700 सैन्य bases अंदर अफगानिस्तान लकिन अधिक यहूद अपेक्षित to be निर्मित in the coming सालो.
परिचय 400 of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त by american‐led नाटो forces and 300 by ANSF.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane एल्कलॉएड कि is प्राप्त इससे the पत्ते of the कोका plant.
The name comes from `` कोका '' और the एल्कलॉएड प्रत्यय -ine, forming कोका.
It is a stimulant, an appetite suppressant, और a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, cocaine acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, भी known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ).
It is addictive because of its effect on the mesolimbic बदला pathway.
Unlike most molecules, cocaine has pockets with दोनो ऊँची hydrophilic और lipophilic दक्षता, violating the नियम of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
This causes it to क्रॉस the blood–brain अवरोध दूर बेहतर than अन्य psychoactive रसायन and may even induce blood-brain barrier breakdown.
It is illegal to possess, उपज, or वितरित cocaine for non-medicinal and non-government-sanctioned purposes in almost every country.
Whole बीफ tri-tip rump, roasted medium rare
The tri-tip is a cut of बीफ इससे the नीचे sirloin primal काटें.
It is a small triangular muscle, प्रायः 1.5 to 2.5 पाउंड. ( 675 to 1,150g ) प्रति पक्ष of बीफ.
The scientific name of this muscle is प्रदिश fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the संयोजी ऊतक covering the quadriceps femoris, also called quadriceps extensor, a group of four muscles which in turn insert in the patella, or knee cap of the animal.
Willmar is a city in, and the county seat of, kandiyohi काउंटी, मिनेसोटा, संयुक्त States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 19,610 at the 2010 census.
willmar रै महरूम आबंटित zip कोड 56201 by the United States Postal Service.
u.s. रूट 12 और 71 और मिनेसोटा राज्य राजमार्गों 23 और 40 are four of the main routes in the city.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives ( or स्पीकर of the हाउस ) is the पीठासीन अधिकारी of the कक्ष.
The office was established in 1789 by Article I, Section 2 of the United States Constitution, जिससे राज्य in भाग, `` the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि shall chuse उनके स्पीकर... ''
The वर्तमान स्पीकर is जॉन boehner, a रिपब्लिकन who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district.
The संविधान करता नहीं आवश्यकता कि the स्पीकर be a सदस्य of कॉंग्रेस, but no non-member has ever been elected to the office.
The Speaker is दूसरी in the संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय लकीर of उत्तराधिकार, बाद the वाइस अध्यक्ष और ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate.
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments, in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan, in the संयुक्त राज्य the स्पीकर of the हाउस is a नेतृत्व स्थिति और the office-holder actively works to नियत the majority party 's legislative agenda.
The Speaker usually does not personally preside over debates, बजाय delegating the ड्यूटी to members of the House from the majority party.
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party, the स्पीकर भी performs प्रशासनिक और प्रक्रियात्मक कृत्यों, और represents his or her Congressional district.
A bicycle frame is the प्रमुख घटक of a सायकिल, on to जिससे पहियों और अन्य components are fitted.
The modern and most common frame design for an upright bicycle is आधारित on the सुरक्षा सायकिल, और consists of दो त्रिकोण, a प्रमुख triangle and a paired rear triangle.
This is known as the डायमंड फ़्रेम.
फ्रेम्स हैं जरूरी to be दमदार, stiff और लाइट, जिससे वे do by combining अलग सामग्री and shapes.
`` सरल गम्भीरता लोलक '' मॉडल assumes no friction or air resistance.
An exemplar animation of a लोलक प्रर्दशित the गति और त्वरण vectors
A pendulum is a weight निलंबित इससे a so कि it can झूले freely.
जब a लोलक is विस्थापित बगलों इससे इसके resting संतुलन स्थिति, it is विषय to a restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position.
When released, the restoring फ़ोर्स संयुक्त साथ the लोलक 's द्रव्यमान कल्याणकारी it to oscillate about the equilibrium position, swinging back and forth.
the समय लिये एक पूरा साईकिल, a बाएँ झूले और a right swing, is called the period.
A pendulum swings साथ a विशिष्ट काल जिससे depends ( mainly ) on its length.
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the नियमित गति of pendulums थी प्रयुक्त लिये timekeeping, और थी the संसार 's सबसे सटीक timekeeping technology until the 1930s.
pendulums हैं प्रयुक्त to विनियमित लोलक घड़ियाँ, और हैं प्रयुक्त in scientific instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers.
Historically they were प्रयुक्त as gravimeters to माप the त्वरण of गम्भीरता in geophysical सर्वेक्षण, and even as a standard of length.
The शब्द 'pendulum ' is नई लैटिन, इससे the लैटिन pendulus, meaning 'hanging '.
The simple gravity pendulum is an idealized गणितीय मॉडल of a लोलक.
This is a वज़न ( or bob ) on the समाप्त of a massless cord निलंबित from a, without friction.
जब दिए an आरंभिक धक्का, it होगा झूले वापस and forth at a constant amplitude.
Real pendulums are subject to friction and air drag, so the आयाम of उनके swings गिरावट.
The First Battle of Bull Run, also known as First Manassas ( the नाम प्रयुक्त by confederate शक्तियां ), थी लड़ा on जुलाई 21, 1861, in प्रिंस विलियम काउंटी, वर्जिनिया, निकट the city of Manassas.
It was the पहला प्रमुख जमीन बैटल of the अमरीकी सिविल War.
Just months after the प्रारंभ of the युद्ध at फोर्ट sumter, the उत्तरी पब्लिक clamored लिये a कूच विरूद्ध the confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia, which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion.
Yielding to political pressure, Brig. Gen. Irvin McDowell led his unseasoned संघ फौज आरपार सांड चलाएं विरूद्ध the बराबर अनुभवहीन confederate फौज of ब्रिगेडियर. gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction.
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a आश्चर्य पार्श्व आक्रमण on the confederate बाएँ थी poorly चलाया by उसके अधिकारियों और मेन ; nevertheless, the confederates, जो था महरूम नियोजन to आक्रमण the संघ left flank, found themselves at an initial disadvantage.
Confederate reinforcements under ब्रिगेडियर. gen. जोसेफ E. johnston arrived इससे the shenandoah घाटी by रेलरोड और the course of the battle quickly changed.
A brigade of virginians अंतर्गत a अपेक्षाकृत अनजान कर्नल इससे the वर्जिनिया सैन्य संस्थान, थामस J. जैक्सन, stood their ground and Jackson received his famous nickname, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack, and as the संघ सैनिकों began withdrawing अंतर्गत आग, अनेक panicked और it turned into a rout as mcdowell 's मेन frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington, D.C.
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and many casualties, and realized the युद्ध थी going to be much longer और bloodier than either था anticipated.
अंधड़ निकट garajau, Madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere, to the degree कि it is hot or ठंडा, गीला or शुष्क, शांत or stormy, clear or cloudy.
Most weather phenomena occur in the क्षोभमण्डल, बस नीचे the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and वर्षण कार्यकलाप, whereas जलवायु is the पद लिये the औसत वायुमंडलीय शर्तें over longer periods of time.
When used बगैर योग्यता, `` मौसम '' is समझा to be the weather of Earth.
Weather is driven by air pressure ( temperature और नमी ) मतभेद between एक place and another.
These pressure और तापमान मतभेद can occur due to the सूर्य कोण at कोई particular spot, which varies by latitude from the tropics.
the दमदार तापमान कंट्रास्ट between ध्रुवीय और तीव्र air gives rise to the jet stream.
मौसम प्रणालियों in the mid-latitudes, ऐसे as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow.
क्युकी the धरती 's अक्ष is tilted सापेक्ष to इसके कक्षीय प्लेन, धूप is घटना at different angles at different times of the year.
On Earth 's सतह, temperatures प्रायः दायरा ±40 °c ( −40 °f to 100 °F ) annually.
Over thousands of years, changes in Earth 's orbit affect the amount and distribution of solar energy प्राप्त by the धरती और influence long-term जलवायु और वैश्विक जलवायु बदलें.
सतह तापमान मतभेद in फेरे cause pressure differences.
उच्चतर altitudes हैं कूलर than निम्नतर altitudes due to differences in compressional heating.
Weather forecasting is the application of विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी to भविष्यवाणी the राज्य of the माहौल लिये a भविष्य समय and a given location.
The atmosphere is a chaotic system, so small परिवर्तन to एक भाग of the प्रणाली can grow to have विशाल प्रभाव on the प्रणाली as a whole.
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human history, and वहीँ is प्रमाण कि इंसान कार्यकलाप ऐसे as कृषि और उद्योग has inadvertently modified weather patterns.
Studying how the मौसम works on अन्य ग्रह रै महरूम सहायक in समझना कैसा मौसम works on Earth.
A famous लैंडमार्क in the सौर प्रणाली, बृहस्पति 's ग्रेट रेड स्पॉट, is an anticyclonic तूफ़ान ज्ञात to have existed for at least 300 years.
However, weather is नहीं सीमित to ग्रहीय bodies.
A स्टार 's किरीट is constantly होने खोया to स्पेस, बनाना कया is essentially a बहुत पतला atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
The गति of द्रव्यमान ejected इससे the सूर्य is ज्ञात as the solar wind.
Katy Perry is an American singer-songwriter इससे सांता बारबरा, California.
वो हस्ताक्षरित साथ Capitol Records.
Perry has released three studio albums, including उसके डेब्यू ईसाई प्रयत्न कैटी हडसन, एक of the लड़कों, और teenage Dream.
पेरी 's मुख्यधारा करियर थी kicked बंद साथ the विशाल चार्ट कामयाबी of her debut single `` I Kissed a Girl ``.
दौरान उसके करियर, पेरी रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये numerous प्रमुख म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, primarily for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys.
The following is a list of sovereign राज्य और territories जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is an आधिकारिक भाषा or भाषा of government.
In 2012, there were 88 states in कुल ( 60 sovereign राज्य और 28 non-sovereign राज्य ).
In many देशों अंग्रेज़ी is the प्रबल भाषा, लकिन करता नहीं have official status.
In Australia, English is spoken by the vast बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी और is the तभी भाषा प्रयुक्त in सरकारी संस्थानों, लकिन Australia does not have an official language.
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States, हालांकि अनेक राज्य और regions भीतर the u.S. do have अंग्रेज़ी as an official language.
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official भाषा of कनाडा ( साथ साथ फ्रेंच ), इण्डिया ( साथ साथ हिंदी और अनेक अन्य भाषाएं ), आयरलैंड ( साथ साथ आयरिश ), और the फिलीपीन ( along with Tagalog ).
English is the एकमात्र आधिकारिक भाषा of the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र and the Commonwealth Games.
English is one of the आधिकारिक भाषाएं of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the यूरोपीय संघ और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Olympic Committee.
Many of these countries are current or former colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see भी अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य ), or of the संयुक्त राज्य, itself a former colony of the UK.
Notable exceptions शामिल रवांडा, जिससे थी a पूर्व belgian उपनिवेश और इरित्रिया, जिससे थी an इतालवी उपनिवेश जहाँ the British Empire spanned its control only in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's linguistic चित्र is जटिल.
According to the Constitution of India, `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the official language of the संघ ; और अंग्रेज़ी the 'subsidiary आधिकारिक भाषा ' ; however, अंग्रेज़ी is mandated लिये the authoritative ग्रन्थ of सब संघीय कानून और परम् अदालत निर्णय और ( साथ साथ हिंदी ) is एक of the two languages of the Indian Parliament.
English is प्रयुक्त लगभग exclusively लिये उच्चतर education, business and science.
Courses in बहुमत of the स्कूलों हैं taught exclusively in English.
English is extensively प्रयुक्त लिये प्रशासनिक purposes in India.
India is the second-largest English-speaking country in the संसार by क्रमांक of अध्यक्षों, after the United States.
As such, many consider अंग्रेज़ी to be the de facto आधिकारिक language of India.
देखिए आधिकारिक भाषाएं of India.
The linguistic makeup of पाकिस्तानी is similarly जटिल.
While the नेशनल भाषा is उर्दू, अंग्रेज़ी is an आधिकारिक भाषा और प्रयुक्त in business, government and law.
अंग्रेज़ी is a अनिवार्य भाषा in schools.
All स्कूल पाठ्यक्रम हैं सिखाया in English.
पाकिस्तानी is the 9th largest english-speaking देश in the world by population.
दक्षिणी कोन (, ) is a भौगोलिक प्रदेश रचित of the southernmost areas of South America, south of the Tropic of Capricorn.
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil, in terms of राजनैतिक भूगोल the दक्षिणी कोन रै traditionally comprised अर्जेंटीना, चिली, पैराग्वे, और उरुग्वे.
In the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina, Chile and उरुग्वे, bounded on the उत्तर by the राज्य of ब्राज़ील, पैराग्वे, बोलीविया और पेरू, on the वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर, और दक्षिण to the जंक्शन between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High life expectancy, the उच्चतम इंसान विकास अनुक्रमणिका of लैटिन अमेरिका, ऊँची मानक of जीना, significant भागीदारी in the वैश्विक बाज़ार और the emerging economy of its members make the Southern Cone the most prosperous macro-region in South America.
For multi-event एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं देखिए track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं, section `` Meetings ''.
Meetings हैं sometimes आयोजित around सम्मेलन tables.
In a meeting, two or more people come together to discuss एक or अधिक विषय, प्रायः in a औपचारिक सेटिंग.
An official game in baseball, also sometimes पुकारा a विनियमन खेल, is a खेल कि रै progressed परे the पाइंट at जिससे it can be considered complete if necessary.
This is लगभग the halfway पाइंट of the game.
In the case of inclement weather, any game which has reached इस पाइंट may be रोका और shortened as needed, साथ the परिणाम होने फाइनल, और सब रिकॉर्ड और आंकडे गिने.
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped is either माना a निलंबित खेल ( to be जारी at a बाद तिथि इससे the पाइंट of stoppage ), or is simply canceled and replayed from the start.
( This depends on the नियम of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत league. )
In either case, no आंकडे हैं गिने जबतक the खेल becomes आधिकारिक.
Since most पेशेवर बेसबॉल खेल हैं नौ पारी long, the fifth inning is used as the threshold for an official game.
If the visiting team is अग्रणी, or the खेल is tied, the समाप्त of the पांचवां inning marks इस point.
If the home team ( जिससे bats पिछला ) is already ahead in the स्कोर, और theoretically होता नहीं need इसके हाफ of the पांचवां inning, then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e., the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game.
The game is also considered official if the घर टोली स्कोर to लो the सीसे in the नीचे of the पांचवां inning, चूंकि the खेल होता समाप्त तत्काल if the same thing happened in the ninth.
In nearly all cases, the `` official game '' औकात is प्रयुक्त to determine whether a बरसात जाँच will be honored for fans holding tickets.
If a game is started but करता नहीं पहुँचें the पाइंट of बनने आधिकारिक, प्रशंसक हैं हकदार to a नई टिकट लिये the make-up खेल or ( in सबसे मामले ) any other available game of their choice.
If a game is halted after it becomes official, the खेल is बस shortened और no बरसात जाँच is given.
The `` official game '' statistic received some attention during the 1995 ऋतु, जब कैलोरी ripken, jr. थी approaching the रिकार्ड लिये लगातार खेल निभाई, previously held by Lou Gehrig.
Large संख्याएँ यहूद लटका on the पक्ष of the b & o गोदाम at Oriole Park at Camden Yards to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak.
Each day, a नई क्रमांक थी unfurled दौरान the पांचवां inning बाद प्रत्येक खेल था become आधिकारिक ( चूंकि the statistic होता not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ).
A similar practice has been used to गिनती bas toward the demolition of अनेक स्टेडियम ( सहित दिग्गजों स्टेडियम in फिलाडेल्फिया in 2003, बुच मेमोरियल स्टेडियम in St. Louis in 2005, and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became official, the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium.
A telephone number or phone number is a अनुक्रम of अंक प्रयुक्त to कॉल इससे एक टेलीफोन लकीर to another in a पब्लिक switched टेलीफोन network.
When telephone numbers यहूद invented, वे यहूद छोटी — as few as एक, two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard operator.
As phone प्रणालियों have grown और interconnected to encompass the संसार, टेलीफोन numbers have become longer.
In addition to telephones, वे अभी अभिगम अन्य डिवाइस, ऐसे as कंप्यूटर and fax machines.
The number contains the information necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint लिये the टेलीफोन कॉल.
Each such endpoint जरूर have a अद्वितीय क्रमांक भीतर the पब्लिक switched telephone network.
Most countries use fixed length numbers ( for normal लाइनों at तनिक ) और इसलिए the क्रमांक of endpoints determines the जरुरी length of the telephone number.
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a नियत of shorter संख्याएँ लिये the endpoints सबसे प्रायः used.
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers हैं automatically अनूदित to अद्वितीय टेलीफोन संख्याएँ पहले the call can be connected.
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the संयुक्त किंगडम, आयरलैंड, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, कैंडल, सऊदी अरब, the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात, मोरक्को, मकाओ, बहरीन, क़तर, बांग्लादेश, बोत्सवाना, घाना, कीनिया, हांग काँग, मलेशिया, Mauritius, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union, respectively. )
Many systems also allow calls within a local area to be बना बगैर डायलिंग the लोकल क्षेत्रफल code.
For example, a phone number in North America will प्रारंभ साथ तीन संख्याएँ ( ऐसे as 661 ), जिससे is the क्षेत्रफल कोड, followed by सात अंक विभाजित into भाग of तीन and four ( such as 550-1212 ), which is the local number.
Some areas now have अनिवार्य ten-digit डायलिंग in प्लेस, भी लिये लोकल calls.
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and secure फोन संजाल ) हैं interconnected in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन संजाल, जहाँ the स्वरूप of टेलीफोन संख्याएँ is मानकीकृत by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies that the संपूर्ण क्रमांक चाहिए be 15 अंक or shorter, और begin with a country prefix.
For most countries, this is followed by an क्षेत्रफल कोड or नगर कोड और the सदस्य क्रमांक, जिससे might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन क्रमांक in लिखने or छपाई, starting साथ a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country code.
When calling an international number from a fixed line phone, the + जरूर be replaced साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय कॉल उपसर्ग चुनी by the देश the कॉल is होने बना इससे.
Some mobile phones allow the + to be डाला सीधे.
The format and आवंटन of लोकल फोन संख्याएँ हैं नियंत्रित by प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's respective government, either directly or by sponsored organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ).
Before a टेलीफोन कॉल is कनेक्ट, the टेलीफोन क्रमांक जरूर be dialed by the calling party or Caller.
The पुकारा पार्टी might have उपकरण कि presents कॉलर ID before the call is answered.
A collection agency is a business that pursues भुगतान of debts owed by individuals or व्यवसायों.
Most collection agencies operate as एजेंटों of लेनदारों और collect debts लिये a शुल्क or प्रतिशत of the कुल amount owed.
There are many types of संग्रहण एजेंसियों.
First-party एजेंसियों हैं oftentimes subsidiaries of the असली company the debt is owed to.
third-party एजेंसियों हैं पृथक कंपनियाँ contracted by a company to collect debts on their behalf for a fee.
Debt buyers purchase the कर्ज़ at a प्रतिशत of इसके मान, तब attempt to collect it.
Each country has its own नियम और regulations regarding them.
Cannabis पुष्प साथ दृश्य trichomes
Cannabis, also ज्ञात as मारिजुआना ( इससे the मैक्सिकन स्पेनी marihuana ), और by अन्य names, is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
Pharmacologically, the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one of 483 known compounds in the संयंत्र, सहित at तनिक 84 अन्य cannabinoids, ऐसे as cannabidiol ( सीबीडी ), cannabinol ( cbn ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
and cannabigerol ( cbg ).
This is a सूची of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल quarterbacks जो have प्रारंभ लिये the वॉशिंगटन redskins, as खूब as इसके पूर्ववर्तियों the बोस्टन braves ( 1932 ) और बोस्टन redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the National Football League ( NFL ).
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally संस्थापित in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स as the बोस्टन braves, नामित बाद the लोकल बेसबॉल franchise.
The नाम थी बदला the following साल to the Redskins.
In 1937, the मताधिकार स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
Of the 49 redskins starting quarterbacks, दो have महरूम inducted into the प्रो Football Hall of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen.
रॉबर्ट griffin iii 2012-present
Jason कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
Mark burnell 2004-2007
चिह्नित rypien 1986-1993
Joe theismann 1974-1985
सैमी baugh 1937-1952
1st खास शक्तियां operational detachment-delta ( 1st sfod-d ), popularly ज्ञात as डेल्टा फ़ोर्स, is एक of the संयुक्त राज्य ' चार secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units.
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by the विभाग of रक्षा लकिन रै चूंकि महरूम officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ).
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively समर्थित by usasoc, it जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command.
Delta Force and its Navy बंटवारा, the नवल खास warfare विकास समूह, हैं the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य 's primary counter-terrorism units.
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism, direct action, और नेशनल हस्तक्षेप परिचालन, हालांकि it is an अत्यधिक बहुमुखी समूह सक्षम of conducting अनेक प्रकार of गुप्त मिशन, सहित, लकिन नहीं सीमित to, hostage rescues and raids.
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly गुपचुप खास क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह ( sog ) प्रायः works साथ – और रंगरूटों – ऑपरेटर from Delta Force.
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha कण, और thereby परिणत ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into an अणु साथ a द्रव्यमान क्रमांक 4 कम और परमाणु क्रमांक 2 less.
अनेक अन्य प्रकार of decays are possible.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the प्रक्रम by जिससे a केंद्रक of an अस्थिर अणु loses उर्जा by emitting अणु of आयनकारी विकिरण.
A material that spontaneously emits इस दयालु of विकिरण — जिससे शामिल the उत्सर्जन of ऊर्जावान अल्फा अणु, बीटा अणु, और गामा किरणें — is माना radioactive.
There are many different प्रकार of रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय ( देखिए तालिका नीचे ).
A decay, or loss of energy, results when an atom with one type of nucleus, called the parent radionuclide, परिणत to an अणु साथ a केंद्रक in a अलग राज्य, or to a अलग केंद्रक containing अलग numbers of protons and neutrons.
Either of ये उत्पाद is नामित the daughter nuclide.
In some decays the parent and daughter are different रासायनिक तत्व, और यूँ the क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation ( सृष्टि of an अणु of a new element ).
The first decay प्रक्रियाओं to be खोजा यहूद अल्फा decay, beta decay, and gamma decay.
Alpha decay occurs when the nucleus ejects an अल्फा कण ( हीलियम केंद्रक ).
This is the most common process of emitting nucleons, लकिन in rarer प्रकार of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or विशिष्ट nuclei of अन्य तत्व ( in the प्रक्रम called cluster decay ).
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron and a प्रकार of न्यूट्रिनो, in a प्रक्रम कि परिवर्तन a प्रोटॉन to a neutron or the other way around.
The nucleus may capture an orbiting इलेक्ट्रॉन, converting a प्रोटॉन into a न्यूट्रॉन ( electron capture ).
All of these processes परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation.
By contrast, there मौजूद रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय प्रक्रियाओं कि do नहीं परिणाम in transmutation.
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in गामा क्षय, or प्रयुक्त to eject an कक्षीय इलेक्ट्रॉन by बातचीत साथ the उत्साहित nucleus in a process called internal conversion.
radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, और इस परिणाम in a बदलें in an element from one isotope to another.
One type of radioactive decay results in उत्पाद जिससे हैं नहीं पारिभाषित, लकिन appear in a दायरा of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus.
This decay is called spontaneous परिवर्द्धन.
This decay happens जब a विशाल अस्थिर केंद्रक अनायास splits into दो ( और occasionally तीन ) छोटी बेटी nuclei, और प्रायः emits gamma rays, neutrons, or other particles as a consequence.
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) process at the level of सिंगल अणु, in कि, according to क्वांटम सिद्धान्त, it is नामुमकिन to भविष्यवाणी जब a particular अणु will decay.
However, the मौका कि a दिए अणु होगा decay is constant over time.
For a विशाल क्रमांक of अणु, the क्षय रेट लिये the संग्रहण is computable इससे the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ).
Waxing is a form of semi-permanent बाल हटाना जिससे removes the बाल इससे the root.
New hair will not grow back in the previously waxed क्षेत्रफल लिये दो to आठ सप्ताह, हालांकि कुछ लोगों होगा प्रारंभ to see regrowth in only a week.
Almost any area of the body can be waxed, सहित eyebrows, फेस, बिकिनी क्षेत्रफल, टाँगे, बाहें, वापस, उदर और feet.
There are many प्रकार of वैक्सिंग उपयुक्त लिये निकालना अनावश्यक hair.
Strip वैक्सिंग is संपन्नता by spreading a मोम thinly over the skin.
A cloth or पेपर स्ट्रिप is तब दबाया on the शीर्ष और ripped बंद the direction of hair growth.
This removes the मोम साथ with the hair.
Strip wax can also be made at home using नीबू रस, जल, शुगर और मधु.
Hot waxing utilizes hot मोम ( as opposed to strip wax ).
In this case, the मोम is लागू somewhat thickly और with no cloth or paper strips.
The wax then hardens when it cools, thus allowing the आसान हटाना by a चिकित्सक बगैर the सहायता of cloths.
This waxing method is very फायदेमंद to लोगों जो have संवेदनशील स्किन.
Wall painting ( 1st century AD ) from pompeii depicting a multigenerational भोज
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year इतिहास of the सभ्यता of Ancient Rome.
The term refers to the संस्कृति of the रोमन गणतंत्र, बाद the रोमन साम्राज्य, जिससे, at इसके शिखर, covered an क्षेत्रफल from Lowland Scotland and Morocco to the Euphrates.
Life in ancient रोम revolved around the नगर of रोम, इसके famed सात पहाड़ियाँ, और इसके स्मारकीय structures ऐसे as the flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ), the Forum of Trajan, and the Pantheon.
The नगर भी था अनेक थिएटर, gymnasiums, और many taverns, baths, and brothels.
Throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control, residential architecture ranged from very modest houses to country villas, and in the पूंजी नगर of रोम, वहीँ यहूद इम्पीरियल निवास on the सुरुचिपूर्ण palatine हिल, इससे जिससे the word palace is derived.
The vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी जिया in the नगर बीच, packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ).
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of that time, with a जनसांख्यिकी कि may खूब have exceeded एक लाख लोगों, साथ a ऊँची समाप्त अनुमान of 3.6 लाख और a low end estimate of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the नगर 's क्षेत्राधिकार जिया in innumerable शहरी centers, साथ जनसांख्यिकी of at तनिक 10,000 और अनेक सैन्य settlements, a बहुत ऊँची rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
the सबसे urbanized भाग of the साम्राज्य थी इटली, जिससे था an अनुमानित rate of urbanization of 32 %, the same rate of urbanization of England in 1800.
Most Roman towns and cities had a forum, temples और the वही प्रकार of इमारतें, on a छोटी स्केल, as मिला in रोम.
The large urban population required an अंतहीन सप्लाई of खाना जिससे थी a जटिल logistical कार्य, सहित acquiring, transporting, storing और वितरण of food for Rome and other urban centers.
Italian farms supplied सब्जियां और फल, लकिन मछली और मांस यहूद luxuries.
aqueducts यहूद निर्मित to लाओ जल to शहरी centers and wine and oil were imported from Hispania, Gaul and Africa.
वहीँ थी a बहुत विशाल राशि of कॉमर्स between the प्रांतों of the रोमन साम्राज्य, चूंकि इसके परिवहन technology was very efficient.
The average लागत of हस्तांतरण और the प्रौद्योगिकी यहूद comparable साथ 18th-century Europe.
The later city of Rome किया नहीं भरण the स्पेस भीतर इसके प्राचीन aurelian दीवारें जबतक बाद 1870.
Eighty percent of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of प्राचीन रोम lived in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in शहरों और उनके estates यहूद left in the care of farm managers.
The plight of rural slaves was generally बदतर than उनके counterparts working in शहरी वैभवशाली households.
To stimulate a higher labor productivity most जमींदार freed a विशाल क्रमांक of स्लेव और अनेक प्राप्त wages.
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 लोगों जिया in एक छोटी फार्म हट in मिश्र, जबकि छह परिवारों owned a single olive tree. ''.
Such a rural environment continued to induce माइग्रेशन of जनसांख्यिकी to शहरी centers जबतक the जल्दी 2nd सदी, जब the शहरी जनसांख्यिकी रोका growing और started to decline.
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC, private Greek culture was increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades विरूद्ध the `` softening '' प्रभाव of hellenized संस्कृति इससे the रूढ़िवादी moralists.
By the time of Augustus, संस्कारी यूनानी household स्लेव सिखाया the रोमन यंग ( sometimes even the girls ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East.
Greek sculptures adorned hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the palatine or in the विला, or यहूद imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves.
The Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery किताबे ascribed to apicius is essentially Greek.
Roman writers disdained लैटिन लिये a संस्कारी यूनानी स्टाइल.
Only in law और शासन थी the तिरछा प्रकृति of रोम 's accretive culture supreme.
Against this इंसान पृष्ठभूमि, दोनो the शहरी और ग्रामीण सेटिंग, एक of इतिहास 's सबसे influential सभ्यताओं took shape, leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today.
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf, Jr. ( born अगस्त 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर golfer.
Glass बोतलों ( लिये खीरा स्लाइस ) on shipping pallets
A सोवियत मेयोनेज़ jar
A modern `` फ्रेंच kilner '' jar
Glass उत्पादन involves दो प्रमुख विधि – the फ्लैश कांच प्रक्रम, जिससे produces चादर कांच, और glassblowing which produces bottles and other containers.
A season is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in मौसम, पारिस्थितिकी, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the सूर्य और the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष relative to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the सीज़न हैं चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of धूप कि पहुँच the धरती 's सतह, विसंगतियाँ of जिससे may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and जुलाई, the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is उजागर to अधिक direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun.
The same is सच्चा of the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in November, December and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth that कल्याणकारी the सूर्य to be उच्चतर in the आसमान दौरान the गर्मियाँ months which increases the solar flux.
however, due to मौसमी lag, जून, जुलाई और अगस्त हैं the hottest महीने in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर, January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ), गर्मियाँ ( estival ), पतझड़ ( autumnal ) और शीत ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) और लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal ) as पृथक सीज़न साथ साथ the परंपरागत चार.
Hot regions have दो or तीन सीज़न ; the बरसात ( or गीला, or मानसून ) ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some parts of the world, खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम ऐसे as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The छह ecological seasons
the चार पंचांग सीज़न, चित्रित in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14, 1861 ) was the बमबारी और आत्मसमर्पण of फोर्ट sumter, निकट चार्ल्सटन, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, कि प्रारंभ the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध.
Following declarations of secession by seven Southern states, South Carolina मांगे कि the u.S. फौज लापरवाही इसके सुविधाएं in चार्ल्सटन Harbor.
On December 26, 1860, U.S. Major Robert Anderson surreptitiously स्थानांतरित उसके छोटी कमांड इससे the indefensible फोर्ट moultrie on सुलीवान 's द्वीप to फोर्ट sumter, a substantial किला controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor.
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson, using the unarmed merchant जलयान स्टार of the वेस्ट, विफल जब it थी fired upon by shore बैटरी on January 9, 1861.
South कैरोलिना अधिकारियों तब जब्त सब संघीय प्रॉपर्टी in the चार्ल्सटन area, except for Fort Sumter.
During the जल्दी महीने of 1861, the हालात around फोर्ट sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
In March, Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the first सामान्य अधिकारी of the newly formed confederate राज्य of अमेरिका, थी लगाई in command of Confederate forces in Charleston.
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of बैटरी around चार्ल्सटन हार्बर aimed at Fort Sumter.
Conditions in the फोर्ट grew dire as the संघ सैनिको rushed to पूरा the installation of additional guns.
Anderson was short of मेन, खाना, और आपूर्तियाँ.
The resupply of Fort Sumter became the पहला संकट of the प्रशासन of अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln.
He notified the Governor of South Carolina, Francis W. Pickens, कि he थी sending सप्लाई जहाजों, जिससे resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately.
प्रमुख एंडरसन refused to surrender.
शुरूआत at 4:30 a.m. on अप्रैल 12, the confederates bombarded the फोर्ट इससे artillery batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the संघ गैरीसन लौटे आग, वे यहूद significantly outgunned और, बाद 34 घंटों, प्रमुख Anderson agreed to evacuate.
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of इस सगाई, हालांकि a गन विस्फोट दौरान the आत्मसमर्पण ceremonies on अप्रैल 14 caused दो संघ मौतों.
Following the battle, there was फैली support इससे दोनो उत्तर और दक्षिण लिये further सैन्य action.
Lincoln 's तात्कालिक कॉल लिये 75,000 स्वयंसेवक to दबाने the विद्रोह resulted in an अतिरिक्त चार दक्षिणी slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy.
The सिविल युद्ध था begun.
3G, short for third Generation, is the तीसरा पीढी of मोबाईल दूरसंचार प्रौद्योगिकी.
3G telecommunication networks support services कि provide an सूचना ट्रांसफ़र रेट of at तनिक 200 kbit/s.
However, many सेवाएं advertised as 3g provide उच्चतर गति than the न्यूनतम technical requirements for a 3G service.
Recent 3G releases, often denoted 3.5G and 3.75G, also provide मोबाईल ब्रॉडबैंड अभिगम of अनेक mbit/s to स्मार्टफ़ोन और मोबाईल modems in लैपटॉप कंप्यूटर.
3G finds application in बेतार आवाज़ telephony, मोबाईल अंतरजाल अभिगम, फिक्स्ड बेतार Internet access, video calls and mobile TV.
`` Mazel Tov ! '' लिखा on a wine glass tag
traditionally, बाद the दूल्हे ब्रेक the कांच, the अतिथि चिल्लाओ `` Mazel Tov ! ``.
A birthday cake, iced with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is प्रायः किया in Israel.
Here the phrase is लिखा in यहूदी कर्सिव.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : `` מזל טוב '', यहूदी : `` mazal tov '' ; यहूदी : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` good luck '' ) is a phrase used to एक्स्प्रेस बधाई लिये a प्रसन्न और significant अवसर or event.
Hepatitis C is an infectious बीमारी affecting primarily the जिगर, caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ).
The infection is often asymptomatic, but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver और ultimately to cirrhosis, जिससे is generally apparent बाद अनेक सालो.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis होगा go on to develop जिगर विफलता, जिगर कर्कट or life-threatening esophageal और gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood सम्पर्क संबद्ध साथ intravenous ड्रग उपयोग, poorly sterilized चिकित्सा उपकरण and transfusions.
An estimated 130–200 लाख लोगों विश्वव्यापी हैं संक्रमित with.
The existence of ( originally `` non- A non- B hepatitis '' ) थी postulated in the 1970s और सिद्ध in 1989.
तभी infects इंसानो and chimpanzees.
The virus persists in the जिगर in परिचय 85 % of those infected.
This persistent संक्रमण can be treated साथ दवा : the मानक चिकित्सा is a संयोजन of peginterferon और ribavirin, साथ either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of लोगों treated are cured.
Those who develop cirrhosis or जिगर कर्कट may require a liver transplant.
is the अग्रणी कारण of जिगर प्रत्यारोपण, हालांकि the वायरस प्रायः बारंबार after transplantation.
No vaccine विरूद्ध is उपलब्धियाँ.
A flexible spending account ( FSA ), also known as a flexible spending व्यवस्था, is एक of a क्रमांक of tax-advantaged वित्तीय खाते कि can be नियत up through a कैफेटेरिया योजना of an नियोक्ता in the United States.
An FSA allows an employee to नियत aside a portion of आय to अदा लिये योग्य खर्च as स्थापित in the कैफेटेरिया योजना, सबसे commonly लिये चिकित्सा खर्च but often for dependent care or other expenses.
Money deducted from an employee 's अदा into an fsa is नहीं विषय to payroll कर, resulting in substantial payroll tax savings.
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is कि निधि नहीं प्रयुक्त by the समाप्त of the योजना साल हैं खोया to the कर्मचारी, ज्ञात as the `` उपयोग it or lose it '' rule.
The most common type of लचीली बिता खाता, the चिकित्सा व्यय fsa ( भी चिकित्सा fsa or स्वास्थ्य fsa ), is समान to a health savings account ( HSA ) or a health reimbursement account ( HRA ).
However, while HSAs and HRAs are almost exclusively used as components of a consumer driven health care योजना, चिकित्सा fsas हैं commonly offered साथ अधिक परंपरागत स्वास्थ्य योजनाएँ as well.
In addition, funds in a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता हैं नहीं खोया when the plan year is over, unlike funds in an FSA.
Paper फ़ॉर्म or an fsa डेबिट कार्ड, भी ज्ञात as a flexcard, may be used to access the account funds.
टेनेसी ( ) ( ) is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the southeastern United States.
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive और the 17th सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
टेनेसी is bordered by केंटकी और वर्जिनिया to the उत्तर, उत्तर कैरोलिना to the ईस्ट, जॉर्जिया, अलबामा, और मिसिसिपी to the south, and Arkansas and Missouri to the west.
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern part of the state, और the मिसिसिपी नदी फ़ॉर्म the राज्य 's western border.
Tennessee 's capital and second largest नगर is नैशविले, जिससे रै a जनसांख्यिकी of 609,644.
Memphis is the state 's largest नगर, साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of 652,050.
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga संघ, a 1772 frontier अनुबंध generally regarded as the पहला संवैधानिक government west of the Appalachians.
What is अभी टेनेसी थी initially भाग of उत्तर कैरोलिना, और बाद भाग of the Southwest Territory.
Tennessee थी admitted to the संघ as the 16th राज्य on June 1, 1796.
Tennessee was the पिछला राज्य to छोड़ the संघ और जुड़ें the confederacy at the outbreak of the u.S. सिविल युद्ध in 1861, और the पहला राज्य to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the war.
Tennessee furnished more soldiers लिये the confederate फौज than कोई अन्य राज्य, और अधिक सैनिको लिये the संघ फौज than any other Southern state.
In the 20th century, Tennessee transitioned from an agrarian अर्थव्यवस्था to a अधिक diversified अर्थव्यवस्था, aided at टाइम्स by संघीय entities ऐसे as the टेनेसी घाटी प्राधिकार.
In the early 1940s, the city of Oak Ridge थी स्थापित to हाउस the मैनहटन प्रोजेक्ट 's यूरेनियम संवर्धन सुविधाएं, helping to निर्माण the संसार 's first atomic bomb.
Tennessee has played a नाजुक भूमिका in the विकास of अनेक फ़ॉर्म of अमरीकी लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक, including rock and roll, blues, country, and rockabilly.
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be the जन्मस्थान of the ब्लूज़, साथ संगीतकारों ऐसे as w.c. सुलभ performing in इसके क्लब as जल्दी as 1909.
Memphis was also home to Sun Records, where musicians such as Elvis Presley, Isaac Hayes, जॉनी नकदी, कार्ल perkins, जेरी ली लुईस, रॉय orbison, और चार्ली समृद्ध began उनके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर, and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s.
The 1927 Victor recording सत्र in ब्रिस्टल generally चिह्नित the शुरूआत of the देश म्यूज़िक विधा और the वृद्धि of the ग्रैंड ओले opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the country music recording industry.
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक : the मेम्फिस चट्टान n ' आत्मा संग्रहालय, the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय in नैशविले, और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय rock-a-billy Museum in Jackson.
In addition, the Rockabilly Hall of Fame, an online साईट recognizing the विकास of rockabilly in जिससे टेनेसी निभाई a निर्णायक भूमिका, is आधारित in नैशविले.
टेनेसी 's प्रमुख उद्योग शामिल agriculture, manufacturing, and tourism.
Poultry, soybeans, and cattle are the state 's primary agricultural products, and major निर्माण निर्यात शामिल रसायन, परिवहन उपकरण, और विद्युत उपकरण.
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the स्वदेश 's सबसे visited नेशनल पार्क, is headquartered in the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य, और a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border.
Other major tourist आकर्षण शामिल the टेनेसी एक्वेरियम in चट्टानूगा, the sunsphere in knoxville, dollywood in कबूतर forge, the पार्थेनन, the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय, और ryman ऑडिटोरियम in नैशविले, and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis.
One डिज़ाइन रूपांतर of a मुर्गा ring.
A cock रिंग is a रिंग कि can be लगाई around a man 's शिश्न, प्रायः at the आधार, primarily to slow the प्रवाह of blood from the erect penile tissue, thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time.
Cock rings can be worn around बस the शिश्न or दोनो the शिश्न और scrotum, or बस the scrotum अलोन, हालांकि इस is प्रायः पुकारा a testicle cuff.
Rings can be made of a किस्में of अलग सामग्री, सबसे commonly चमड़े, रबर, or silicone, हालांकि नायलॉन और मेटल हैं also used either as the main component or part of the closure.
the पद मुर्गा रिंग is sometimes प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये a प्रिंस अल्बर्ट piercing, a piercing of the शिश्न कि is usually, though not always, a metal ring.
जब प्रयुक्त in मामले of erectile dysfunction वे हैं ज्ञात by विभिन्न names such as `` erection ring '' and `` tension ring ''.
The मुख्यालय of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल at 245 पार्क एवेन्यू, Midtown Manhattan, New York City, USA.
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a पेशेवर बेसबॉल लीग, consisting of टीमों कि खेल in the नेशनल लीग and the American League.
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a सिंगल संगठन led by the कमिश्नर of बेसबॉल, बाद 100 years as separate legal entities.
MLB constitutes one of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग of the संयुक्त States and Canada.
It is composed of 30 टीमों — 29 in the संयुक्त राज्य और one in Canada.
Teams in MLB play 162 games प्रत्येक ऋतु over छह महीने ( अप्रैल through September ).
Five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason टूर्नामेंट कि culminates in the संसार श्रेणी, a best-of-seven-games championship series between the two league champions which dates to 1903.
The organization oversees अनेक minor-league बेसबॉल लीग जिससे operate परिचय 240 टीमों संबद्ध साथ the major-league clubs.
With the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बेसबॉल संघ, the लीग भी manages the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संसार बेसबॉल Classic tournament.
MLB has the highest season उपस्थिति of कोई खेल लीग in the संसार साथ nearly 75 million spectators in 2012.
Delaware ( ) is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ on the अटलांटिक coast in the mid-atlantic प्रदेश of the United States.
It is bordered to the south और वेस्ट by मेरीलैंड, to the पूर्वोत्तर by नई जर्सी, और to the उत्तर by Pennsylvania.
the राज्य takes इसके नाम इससे थामस वेस्ट, 3rd सामन्त de la warr, an अंग्रेज़ी nobleman और वर्जिनिया 's पहला औपनिवेशिक राज्यपाल, बाद जिसको कया is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named.
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the दूसरी smallest, the छठे तनिक populous, लकिन the छठे सबसे densely आबादी of the fifty United States.
डेलावेयर is विभाजित into तीन counties.
इससे उत्तर to दक्षिण, ये तीन काउंटी are New Castle, Kent, and Sussex.
While the southern two counties have historically महरूम predominantly agricultural, नई किला काउंटी रै महरूम more industrialized.
Before its coastline was explored by Europeans in the 16th सदी, डेलावेयर थी inhabited by अनेक समूह of देशी अमेरिकी, सहित the lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by डच व्यापारियों at zwaanendael, located near the present town of Lewes, in 1631.
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution and on दिसम्बर 7, 1787, became the पहला राज्य to ratify the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य, thereby बनने ज्ञात as the First State.
Energy परिवर्तन in उर्जा प्रणालियों भाषा
उर्जा परिवर्तन or उर्जा परिवर्तन is the प्रक्रम of बदलना one form of energy to another.
In physics, the term energy describes the capacity to उपज निश्चित परिवर्तन भीतर a प्रणाली, बगैर लिहाज़ to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy.
Changes in total energy of systems can तभी be संपन्नता by adding or subtracting उर्जा इससे उन्हें, as उर्जा is a मात्रा जिससे is conserved, according to the first law of thermodynamics.
According to special relativity, परिवर्तन in the उर्जा of प्रणालियों होगा भी coincide साथ परिवर्तन in the प्रणाली 's द्रव्यमान, और the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy.
उर्जा in a प्रणाली may be रूपांतरित so कि it resides in a अलग राज्य, or a different type of energy.
उर्जा in अनेक राज्य may be प्रयुक्त to do many varieties of physical work.
Energy may be used in प्राकृतिक प्रक्रियाओं or मशीने, or else to provide कुछ सेवा to समाज ( ऐसे as heat, light, or motion ).
For example, an internal combustion engine converts the potential रासायनिक उर्जा in गैसोलीन और ऑक्सीजन into ऊष्मा, जिससे is तब रूपांतरित into the propulsive उर्जा ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ).
A solar cell converts solar radiation into विद्युत उर्जा कि can तब be प्रयुक्त to लाइट a बल्ब or शक्ति a कंप्यूटर.
The generic name for a यंत्र जिससे converts उर्जा इससे एक रूप to another, is a transducer.
In सामान्य, सबसे प्रकार of उर्जा, सहेजें लिये थर्मल उर्जा, may be converted efficiently to any other kind of energy.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, ऐसे as जब संभावित उर्जा is परिवर्तित to गतिज उर्जा as an ऑब्जेक्ट जलप्रपात in vacuum, or when it orbits nearer or farther from another object, in space.
Conversion of other types of energies to ऊष्मा may भी occurs साथ nearly पूर्ण दक्षता ( many types of friction do this ).
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated systems ) occur when उर्जा रै already महरूम partly वितरित among अनेक उपलब्धियाँ क्वांटम राज्य लिये a संग्रहण of अणु, जिससे हैं freely अनुमत to explore कोई राज्य of आवेग and position ( phase space ).
In such circumstances, a measure called Entropy, or evening-out of energy वितरण in ऐसे राज्य, dictates कि भविष्य राज्य of the प्रणाली जरूर be of at तनिक बराबर evenness in energy distribution.
( There is no way, taking the universe as a whole, to collect उर्जा into कम राज्य, एकबार it रै स्प्रेड to उन्हें ).
A consequence of इस आवश्यकता is कि वहीँ हैं सीमाएं to the दक्षता साथ जिससे थर्मल उर्जा can be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of उर्जा, चूंकि थर्मल उर्जा in संतुलन at a दिए तापमान already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states.
ऐसे उर्जा is sometimes माना `` degraded उर्जा, '' because it is not entirely usable.
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that, for this reason, thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of उर्जा साथ efficiencies approaching 100 %, तभी if the एन्ट्रॉपी ( even-ness or विकार ) of the ब्रह्मांड is increased by अन्य अर्थात्, to compensate लिये the घटी in एन्ट्रॉपी संबद्ध with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content.
Otherwise, only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus, useful work ), since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal टंकी at a निम्नतर तापमान, in ऐसे a रास्ता कि the बढ़ाएँ in एन्ट्रॉपी लिये इस प्रक्रम अधिक than compensates लिये the एन्ट्रॉपी घटी संबद्ध साथ परिवर्तन of the rest of the heat into other types of energy.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब, of जिससे सात हैं फिलहाल स्तिथ in कनाडा and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग in the संसार, और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग in the संयुक्त राज्य और Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North अमेरिका, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff चैंपियन at the end of each season.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, क्यूबेक, कनाडा, बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन, the नेशनल हॉकी संघ ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It प्रारंभ साथ चार टीमों और, through a श्रेणी of expansions, contractions, और relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the नाम of the लीग originally referred थी कनाडा, हालांकि the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 जब it विस्तारित into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 ऋतु, the लीग resumed खेल अंतर्गत a नई सामूहिक bargaining अनुबंध कि शामिल a salary cap.
In 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
the एनएचएल draws अनेक अत्यधिक skilled खिलाड़ी इससे सब over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European खिलाड़ी have increased दोनो क्युकी of the एनएचएल 's जारी विस्तार इससे छह to तीस क्लब चूंकि 1967, और the increased उपलब्धता of अत्यधिक skilled यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी.
This is the complete list of the ratified और unratified amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान जिससे प्राप्त the स्वीकृति of the United States Congress.
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the original signing of the Constitution, the first टेन of जिससे हैं ज्ञात collectively as the विधेयक of Rights.
The procedure for amending the United राज्य संविधान is governed by आलेख v of the असली टेक्स्ट.
There have been many other proposals for amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान introduced in कॉंग्रेस, लकिन नहीं submitted to the states.
Before an amendment can लो प्रभाव, it जरूर be प्रस्तावित to the राज्य by a two-thirds vote of दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस or by a सम्मेलन ( ज्ञात as an आलेख v सम्मेलन ) पुकारा by two-thirds of the राज्य, और ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof, the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal.
To date, no convention for proposing amendments रै महरूम पुकारा by the राज्य, और तभी once—in 1933 लिये the अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-first amendment —has the सम्मेलन विधि of ratification been employed.
FMR LLC ( वफ़ादारी प्रबन्धन और शोध ) or वफ़ादारी निवेश is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय financial services corporation.
It is एक of the largest परस्पर निधि और वित्तीय services groups in the world.
It was founded in 1946 और serves उत्तर अमरीकी निवेशकों.
वफ़ादारी ventures is इसके venture capital arm.
Fidelity International सीमित ( फील ), थी an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संबद्ध संस्थापित in 1969, सेवारत most countries in the rest of the world.
In सितंबर 2011, फील थी rebranded as 'fidelity विश्वव्यापी Investment '.
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual निधि, provides निधि वितरण और निवेश सलाह सेवाएं, as खूब as providing छूट brokerage सेवाएं, रिटायरमेंट सेवाएं, माल प्रबन्धन, प्रतिभूति execution and clearance, life insurance and a number of other services.
जून 2006 थी the छठे month of that year.
it began on a गुरुवार और ended बाद 30 दिनों on a शुक्रवार The following events also occurred during the month:
Sociology is the scientific study of इंसान समाज और इसके origins, विकास, संगठन, और संस्थानों.
It is a social science which uses various methods of empirical छानबीन और नाजुक विश्लेषण to develop a देह of ज्ञान परिचय इंसान social activity, structures, and functions.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct शोध जिससे may be लागू सीधे to सोशल नीति और welfare, जबकि अन्य फ़ोकस primarily on शोधन the theoretical understanding of social processes.
Subject matter ranges इससे the सूक्ष्म स्तर of व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी और बातचीत to the मैक्रो level of systems and the social structure.
the परंपरागत focuses of समाजशास्त्र शामिल सोशल स्तरीकरण, सोशल क्लास, संस्कृति, race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, social mobility, religion, secularization, law, and deviance.
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency, sociology has gradually expanded its focus to further विषय, ऐसे as स्वास्थ्य, चिकित्सा, सैन्य और penal संस्थानों, the अंतरजाल, पर्यावरणीय समाजशास्त्र, राजनैतिक अर्थव्यवस्था और the भूमिका of सोशल कार्यकलाप in the विकास of वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान.
The range of सोशल वैज्ञानिक विधि रै भी expanded.
Social researchers draw upon a किस्में of गुणात्मक और quantitative तकनीकों.
The भाषाई और सांस्कृतिक turns of the mid-twentieth सदी led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, और philosophic approaches to the analysis of society.
conversely, हाल दशकों have देखी the वृद्धि of नई analytically, mathematically और computationally rigorous techniques, such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis.
Sociology should not be confused साथ विभिन्न सामान्य सोशल अध्ययन पाठ्यक्रम जिससे भालू छोटी संबंध to समाजशास्त्रीय theory or social science research methodology.
Thunder is the ध्वनि caused by बिजली.
Depending on the nature of the lightning और अलहदा of the श्रोता, थंडर can दायरा इससे a शार्प, लाउड क्रैक to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The sudden increase in दबाव और तापमान इससे बिजली produces रैपिड विस्तार of the एयर surrounding and within a bolt of lightning.
In turn, this expansion of air creates a sonic shock wave, similar to a sonic बूम, जिससे produces the ध्वनि of थंडर, प्रायः referred to as a clap, crack, or peal of thunder.
The distance of the lightning can be calculated by the listener based on the time interval इससे जब the बिजली is देखी to जब the ध्वनि is heard.
Palma (,, ), in full Palma de Mallorca, is the major city and port on the island of majorca ( mallorca ) और पूंजी नगर of the autonomous जातियाँ of the balearic आइलैंड्स in Spain.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of Majorca ) and ciutat ( नगर ) यहूद प्रयुक्त पहले the युद्ध of the स्पेनी उत्तराधिकार और हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त by लोगों in Majorca.
However, the आधिकारिक नाम थी mallorca, the वही as the द्वीप.
It is situated on the दक्षिण coast of the द्वीप on the Bay of Palma.
As of the 2009 census, the population of the city of Palma उचित थी 401,270, और the जनसांख्यिकी of the संपूर्ण शहरी क्षेत्रफल थी 517,285, रैंकिंग as the बारहवीं largest urban area of Spain.
लगभग हाफ of the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of majorca live in Palma.
The Cabrera Archipelago, हालांकि widely अलग इससे पालमा उचित, is administratively माना part of the municipality.
Its airport, Son Sant जोन, serves over 22 लाख यात्री प्रत्येक साल.
The Marivent Palace was offered by the city to the तब प्रिंस जुआन कार्लोस i of स्पेन.
The royals have चूंकि खर्च उनके गर्मियाँ छुट्टियाँ in Palma.
Luthor redirects यहाँ.
लिये अन्य उपयोग, देखिए लूथर ( disambiguation ).
Alexander Joseph `` लेक्स '' luthor is a fictional अक्षर, a supervillain appearing in कॉमिक किताबे प्रकाशित by DC Comics.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, and as a high-status supervillain, has also come into विरोध साथ बैटमैन और अन्य superheroes in the dc ब्रह्मांड.
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, the अक्षर पहला appeared in कार्रवाई कॉमिक्स # 23 ( अप्रैल 1940 ).
Luthor is described as `` a power-mad, दुष्ट वैज्ञानिक '' of ऊँची प्रज्ञा और अविश्वसनीय technological prowess.
Luthor 's goals typically center on killing Superman, the foremost बाधा to achieving the विलेन 's megalomaniacal लक्ष्य.
Despite periodically wearing a powered बहि, luthor रै traditionally lacked superpowers or a डुअल पहचान.
The character थी originally चित्रित as a mad वैज्ञानिक जो, in the रग of pulp novels, wreaks havoc on the world with his futuristic weaponry.
In his earliest दिखावे, luthor is दिखाया साथ a पूरा सिर of red hair.
despite इस, the अक्षर बाद became hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake.
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel विस्तारित upon luthor 's उत्पत्ति और motivations, revealing उसे to be a बाल्यकाल dost of सुपरमैन 's who lost his hair when a fire destroyed his laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge.
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths, the character was re-imagined as a machiavellian उद्योगपति और white-collar दण्ड, भी briefly सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the United States.
in हाल सालो, विभिन्न लेखक have revived luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
The character was ranked as the 8th Greatest विलेन by जादूगर on इसके 100 महानतम खलनायक of All Time list.
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic किताब खलनायक of सब समय क्रमित luthor as # 4.
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by कॉमिक किताब आलोचक पीटर sanderson, एक of a few genre-crossing खलनायक जिनकी adventures लो प्लेस `` in a संसार in जिससे the ordinary कानून of प्रकृति हैं थोड़ा suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty, Count Dracula, Hannibal Lecter, Doctor Doom, and Darth Vader, also fit this description.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय अवकाश अंकन the जन्मदिवस of रेव. dr. मार्टिन लूथर King, Jr.
It is observed on the तीसरा सोमवार of जनवरी प्रत्येक साल, जिससे is around the समय of किंग 's जन्मदिवस, January 15.
The floating अवकाश is समान to छुट्टियाँ नियत अंतर्गत the वर्दी सोमवार अवकाश अधिनियम, हालांकि the act predated the establishment of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by 15 years.
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent सक्रियता in the सिविल अधिकारों गति, जिससे सफलतापूर्वक protested जातिगत पक्षपात in federal and state law.
The campaign for a federal अवकाश in किंग 's सम्मान began जल्द बाद उसके हत्या in 1968.
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983, और it थी पहला observed on जनवरी 20, 1986.
At पहला, कुछ राज्य resisted observing the अवकाश as ऐसे, giving it वैकल्पिक names or combining it with other holidays.
It was officially observed in सब 50 राज्य लिये the पहला समय in 2000.
The camera फोन समाधान allows तत्काल sharing of pictures.
As it 's automatic and तत्काल, the उपयोक्ता करता नहीं have to उपयोग a केबल or removable media to connect to a personal computer.
A camera phone is a mobile phone which is able to कैप्चर स्टिल छायाचित्र ( और प्रायः वीडियो ).
Since early in the 21st century the बहुमत of मोबाईल फोन in उपयोग are camera phones.
Most camera फोन हैं simpler than पृथक डिजिटल cameras.
Their usual fixed focus lenses and smaller sensors limit their प्रदर्शन in ग़रीब lighting.
Lacking a physical shutter, most have a long शटर lag.
फ्लैश, जहाँ उपस्थित, is usually weak.
ऑप्टिकल जूम और तिपाई screws are rare.
Some भी कमी a usb कनेक्शन, removable मेमोरी कार्ड, or अन्य रास्ता of transferring उनके तस्वीरें अधिक जल्दी than by the phone 's inherent communication feature.
Some of the more expensive कैमरा फोन have तभी a few of ये तकनीकी disadvantages, जिससे लागू सबसे acutely in कम लाइट शर्तें और in कोई मामला have not inhibited their widespread use.
Most मॉडल लाइनों improve in ये प्रणाम every year or two.
Some, ऐसे as the droid अविश्वसनीय तभी have a मेनू चुनाव to start an application program to activate the camera.
Others, such as the ब्लैकबेरी तूफ़ान 2, droid x, मोटोरोला v980 और नोकिया 5800 भी have a पृथक कैमरा बटन लिये quickness and convenience.
खिड़कियाँ फोन can be विन्यस्त to operate as a camera even if the phone is asleep.
Some camera phones are designed to resemble पृथक low-end डिजिटल कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे in रूप and to some extent in features and picture quality, and are branded as both mobile phones and cameras, including certain Sony phones.
The principal advantages of कैमरा फोन हैं लागत और compactness ; बेशक लिये a उपयोक्ता जो carries a मोबाईल फोन वैसे, the अतिरिक्त आकार और cost are negligible.
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile अनुप्रयोग to add सामर्थ्य ऐसे as geotagging और चित्र stitching.
A few high end phones can use their टच स्क्रीन to सीधा उनके कैमरा to फ़ोकस on a particular ऑब्जेक्ट in the फ़ील्ड of दृश्य, giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता a उपाधि of फ़ोकस कंट्रोल exceeded तभी by seasoned photographers using manual focus.
`` whatever happened to the man of कल ? '' is a 1986 कॉमिक किताब स्टोरी featuring the dc Comics character of Superman.
Written by एलन मूर साथ सहायता इससे long-time, और जल्द to be retiring, सुपरमैन एडिटर, जूलियस schwartz, the स्टोरी थी प्रकाशित in दो भाग, beginning in Superman # 423 and ending in Action Comics # 583, both published in September 1986.
the स्टोरी थी drawn by long-time कलाकार रूखा swan, in उसके फाइनल प्रमुख योगदान to the सुपरमैन शीर्षक, और was inked by George Pérez in the issue of Superman and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics.
the स्टोरी थी an काल्पनिक टेल जिससे बताई the फाइनल स्टोरी of the चांदी आयु सुपरमैन और उसके long इतिहास, जिससे थी होने rebooted following the events of Crisis on Infinite Earths, before his modern introduction in the John Byrne series, The Man of Steel.
Moore wanted उसके प्लाट to सम्मान the long इतिहास of the अक्षर और to serve as a पूरा conclusion to his mythology.
The story is a frame story set ten years after सुपरमैन थी पिछला देखी, जहाँ लोइस लेन recounts the टेल of the समाप्त of सुपरमैन 's करियर to a रिपोर्टर इससे the Daily Planet.
उसके स्टोरी शामिल numerous हिंसक हमले विरूद्ध सुपरमैन by उसके दुश्मनों, the पब्लिक रहस्योद्घाटन of उसके रहस्य identity of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him.
The story has been cited as one of the best कहानियां of the अक्षर of सुपरमैन, और आलोचकों और ऑडियंस अक्सर choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published.
It is used as an example of how to close the long-time निरंतरता of a कॉमिक किताब अक्षर.
The story 's legacy has endured साथ समान कहानियां लिखा as श्रद्धांजलि to it.
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of सुपरमैन as the man of कल, और थी प्रयुक्त in the शीर्षक of another सुपरमैन.
The bugatti veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car, designed और विकसित by the volkswagen समूह और manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन car in the संसार, साथ a शीर्ष गति of.
The असली संस्करण रै a शीर्ष speed of.
It was named Car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न programme Top Gear.
The मानक veyron जीती शीर्ष गियर्स बेहतरीन car चलित सब साल award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti नियत the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड खेल vitesse, reaching on औसत a शीर्ष गति of.
The Veyron 's मुख्य पंक्तियां थी hartmut warkuss, और the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen, साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special विसंगतियाँ have महरूम उत्पादित.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the veyron 16.4 configurator अनुप्रयोग on the marque 's official website.
The संस्था of the eucharist रै महरूम a कुंजी थीम in the depictions of the पिछला भोजन in ईसाई आर्ट, as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes painting.
`` At the Last Supper, on the night he was गद्दारी, हमारी रक्षक instituted the eucharistic बलिदान of उसके देह and Blood. ''
( catechism of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर 1323 )
eucharist in the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर refers to दोनो the जश्न of the द्रव्यमान, कि is, the eucharist liturgy, और the ब्रैड और वाइन जिससे बाद the प्रतिष्ठापना are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ, Lord and God, a declaration formulated by the Council of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this.
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional पद प्रयुक्त in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर to refer to the eucharistic प्रजाति ( the देह और रक्त of Christ ).
the following is a सूची of कॉलेजों and universities in the U.S. state of Louisiana.
A short story is a brief work of साहित्य, प्रायः लिखा in कथा गद्य.
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short स्टोरी रै grown to encompass a देह of कार्य so विविध as to defy आसान characterization.
At its most prototypical the short story features a small cast of named characters, and focuses on a self-contained घटना साथ the intent of evoking a `` सिंगल प्रभाव '' or मनोदशा.
In so doing, short stories make use of plot, resonance, and other dynamic components to a दूर वृहद उपाधि than is ठेठ of an किस्सा, yet to a दूर lesser degree than a novel.
While the short story is largely distinct from the अनोखा, लेखक of दोनो generally चित्रण इससे a आम पूल of साहित्यिक techniques.
Short stories have no नियत लंबाई.
In शर्तें of शब्द गिनती वहीँ is no आधिकारिक demarcation between an anecdote, a short story, and a novel.
बल्कि, the रूप 's पैरामीटर्स हैं दिए by the rhetorical और व्यावहारिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे a दिए स्टोरी is उत्पादित और माना, so कि कया constitutes a short story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators.
Like the novel, the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication, and the evolution of the रूप seems closely tied to the एवोल्यूशन of the प्रकाशन उद्योग और the सबमिशन दिशानिर्देश of इसके constituent houses.
The short story has been माना दोनो an शिक्षुता रूप preceding अधिक lengthy works, और a crafted रूप in इसके अपना सही, एकत्रित together in books of similar length, price, and distribution as novels.
छोटी स्टोरी लेखक may define उनके works as भाग of the कलाकारी and personal expression of the form.
वे may भी attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form.
Area codes in मिशिगन
Area code 810 is the टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड सेवारत eastern Michigan.
The raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, also known as the common raccoon, उत्तर अमरीकी raccoon, उत्तरी raccoon और colloquially as कून, is a medium-sized स्तनधारी native to North America.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid परिवार, having a देह length of and a body weight of.
Its grayish कोट ज़्यादातर consists of घना underfur जिससे insulates against cold weather.
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive सुविधाएँ हैं इसके अत्यधिक dexterous सामने पंजे और इसके फेशियल मुखौटा, जिससे हैं विषयवस्तु in the mythology of several Native American tribes.
Raccoons are विख्यात लिये उनके प्रज्ञा, साथ अध्ययन प्रर्दशित कि वे हैं समर्थ to याद the समाधान to tasks for up to three years.
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, जिससे is प्रायः nocturnal, consists of परिचय 40 % invertebrates, 33 % plant foods, and 27 % vertebrates.
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed वनों, लकिन due to उनके adaptability वे have विस्तारित उनके दायरा to mountainous क्षेत्रों, तटीय marshes, और शहरी क्षेत्रों, where some homeowners consider them to be pests.
As a परिणाम of escapes और deliberate introductions in the mid-20th सदी, raccoons हैं अभी भी वितरित आरपार the यूरोपीय mainland, the Caucasus region and Japan.
हालांकि previously विचार to be एकान्त, वहीँ is अभी प्रमाण कि raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior.
Related females often share a common area, while unrelated males live together in groups of up to चार पशु to maintain उनके स्थितियाँ विरूद्ध विदेशी males दौरान the समागम ऋतु, और अन्य potential invaders.
Home दायरा आकार vary anywhere इससे 3 हेक्टेयर ( 7 एकड़ ) लिये महिलाओं in शहरों to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies.
After a gestation काल of परिचय 65 दिनों, दो to पाँच यंग, known as `` kits '', are born in spring.
The kits are subsequently raised by उनके माँ जबतक dispersion in लेट पतन.
Although captive raccoons have been known to सजीव over 20 सालो, उनके औसत जीवन प्रत्याशा in the जंगली is only 1.8 to 3.1 years.
In many areas, hunting और vehicular चोट हैं the दो सबसे आम कल्याणकारी of death.
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake, साथ an उपरिकेंद्र निकट the कस्बा of léogâne ( ouest विभाग ), लगभग वेस्ट of port-au-prince, हैती 's पूंजी.
The earthquake occurred at 16:53 लोकल समय ( 21:53 utc ) on मंगलवार, 12 January 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or वृहद था महरूम अंकित.
An estimated three लाख लोगों यहूद प्रभावित by the भूकंप.
The उच्चतम विश्वसनीय मौत गिनती was estimated at 220,000.
haitian सरकारी estimates were higher.
The government of Haiti estimated that 250,000 निवास और 30,000 वाणिज्यिक इमारतें था collapsed or were severely damaged.
the भूकंप caused प्रमुख क्षति in port-au-prince, jacmel and other settlements in the region.
Many notable landmark buildings यहूद significantly क्षतिग्रस्त or नष्ट, सहित the अध्यक्षीय राजमहल, the नेशनल सभा भवन, the port-au-prince Cathedral, and the main jail.
among those मारे यहूद archbishop of port-au-prince जोसेफ Serge Miot, and opposition leader Micha Gaillard.
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ), स्तिथ in the पूंजी, collapsed, हत्या अनेक, सहित the मिशन 's मुख्य, Hédi Annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals लिये humanitarian सहायता, pledging निधि और dispatching बचाव और चिकित्सा टीमों, इंजीनियर्स and support personnel.
Communication systems, air, जमीन, और समुद्र हस्तांतरण सुविधाएं, अस्पताल, और विद्युत संजाल था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त by the भूकंप, जिससे hampered बचाव और सहायता प्रयत्न ; भ्रम over जो थी in चार्ज, एयर ट्रैफ़िक जमघट, और समस्याएं साथ prioritisation of फ़्लाइट further complicated early relief work.
port-au-prince 's morgues यहूद अभिभूत साथ tens of thousands of bodies.
ये था to be दफ्न in mass graves.
As rescues tailed बंद, आपूर्तियाँ, चिकित्सा परवाह और स्वच्छता became priorities.
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals इससे सहायता मजदूर और survivors, और लूटने और विरल हिंसा were observed.
On 22 January the United Nations noted that the आपात phase of the राहत आपरेशन थी आरेखण to a बंद, और on the following दिन the haitian सरकारी officially पुकारा बंद the search for survivors.
मिस्टर ed is a fictional talking घोड़ा, originally appearing in छोटी कहानियां by वाल्टर R. ब्रूक्स, और बाद in an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न हालात कॉमेडी उत्पादित by filmways that first aired in syndication from January 5 to July 2, 1961, and then on CBS from October 1, 1961 to February 6, 1966.
The stars of the show were Mister Ed, a palomino horse who could `` talk '', played by gelding Bamboo Harvester और voiced by पूर्व पश्चिमी स्टार allan लेन ( जो गई uncredited लिये the संपूर्ण लंबाई of the श्रेणी ), और उसके मालिक, an eccentric और enormously klutzy, yet दोस्ताना, वास्तु नामित Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ).
Much of the program 's humor stemmed इससे the फैक्ट मिस्टर ed होता बोलो तभी to wilbur, as खूब as ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other कार्यशील चुटकुले केन्द्रित on wilbur 's अक्षर होने a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or others.
According to the show 's निर्माता, आर्थर lubin, यंग थी चुनी as the सीसे अक्षर क्युकी he `` बस लगा जैसे the sort of guy a horse would talk to ''.
Lubin, a friend of Mae West, scored a तख्तापलट by persuading the स्क्रीन प्रतीक to अतिथि star in one episode.
In the United States, reruns aired on उपनाम at नाइट इससे कूच 3, 1986, to फ़रवरी 1, 1993.
Sister station TV Land भी reran the दिखाएँ इससे 1996–98 और again इससे 2003-06.
the श्रेणी is फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट प्रत्येक morning on इस tv, साथ साथ Highway Patrol, and The Patty Duke Show.
It is भी फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट on Hallmark Movie Channel.
As of January 1, 2011, the पहला दो सीज़न of the दिखाएँ हैं उपलब्धियाँ on hulu.
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology जिससे refers to the `` होने caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17, जब the `` मुर्दे in मसीह '' और `` we जो हैं जिंदा और remain '' होगा be `` caught up in the बादल '' to मिलें `` the रब in the एयर ''.
The term `` rapture '' is प्रयुक्त in at तनिक दो होश.
In the pre-tribulation दृश्य, a समूह of लोगों होगा be बाएँ पीछे on धरती after another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air. ''
This is now the most common use of the पद, विशेषकर among fundamentalist ईसाइयों और in the संयुक्त States.
The other, older use of the पद `` rapture '' is बस as a पर्याय लिये the फाइनल क़यामत generally, बगैर a विश्वास कि a समूह of लोगों is बाएँ पीछे on धरती लिये an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
This distinction is महत्वपूर्ण as कुछ प्रकार of christianity never refer to `` the rapture '' in धार्मिक शिक्षा, but might use the older and more general sense of the word `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the final resurrection.
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return ( including whether it होगा occur in एक इवेंट or दो ), और विभिन्न दृश्य regarding the गंतव्य of the aerial महफ़िल वर्णित in 1 thessalonians 4.
Denominations such as Roman Catholics, Orthodox Christians, Lutheran Christians, and Reformed ईसाइयों मानना in a rapture तभी in the भाव of a सामान्य फाइनल क़यामत, जब मसीह रिटर्न a सिंगल समय.
They do not believe that a group of people is left पीछे on धरती लिये an विस्तारित tribulation काल बाद the कार्यक्रम of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth brethren, और popularized in the संयुक्त राज्य in the जल्दी 20th सदी by the चौड़ी परिसंचरण of the scofield Reference Bible.
Kris नाथन humphries ( born फ़रवरी 6, 1985 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर basketball player with the Brooklyn Nets.
The Philistine शहरों of गाजा, ashdod, ashkelon, ekron, और gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, Plištim ), Pleshet or peleset, यहूद a लोगों जो as भाग of the समुद्र peoples appeared in the दक्षिणी तटीय क्षेत्रफल of canaan at the शुरूआत of the आयरन आयु ( circa 1175 bc ), सबसे probably from the Aegean region.
According to the Bible, they ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, ekron और gath, इससे wadi गाजा in the दक्षिण to the yarqon नदी in the उत्तर, लकिन साथ no फिक्स्ड किनारा to the east.
The Bible paints उन्हें as the किंगडम of इसराईल 's most dangerous enemy.
Originating somewhere in the Aegean, their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC, rising to a शिखर of 30,000 in the 11th सदी bc, of जिससे the ईजियन तत्व थी नहीं अधिक than हाफ the कुल, और शायद much कम.
Nothing is known for certain about the original भाषा or भाषाएं of the philistines, however वे यहूद नहीं भाग of the Semitic Canaanite population.
There is some limited evidence in favour of the assumption कि the philistines यहूद indo-european-speakers either इससे यूनानियों and/or luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor.
philistine-related शब्द मिला in the बाइबल हैं नहीं सामीती, और can in कुछ मामले, साथ रिज़र्वेशन, be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots.
By the beginning of the 1st मिलेनियम bce वे था अपनाया the सामान्य canaanite language of the region.
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple चुनाव परीक्षण, administered by the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य प्रवेश प्रसंस्करण कमांड, प्रयुक्त to determine योग्यता लिये enlistment in the United States armed forces.
It is often offered to American high school students when वे हैं in the 10th, 11th और 12th ग्रेड, हालांकि anyone योग्य लिये enlistment may take it.
Although the परीक्षण is administered by the सैन्य, it is नहीं ( और never रै महरूम ) a आवश्यकता that a test-taker with a qualifying score enlist in the armed forces.
In financial accounting, a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole बंदोबस्त, a कारोबार साझेदारी, a निगम or अन्य कारोबार संगठन, ऐसे as an llc or an LLP.
Assets, liabilities and ownership इक्विटी हैं सूचीबद्ध as of a विशिष्ट तिथि, ऐसे as the समाप्त of इसके वित्तीय year.
A balance sheet is often वर्णित as a `` स्नैपशॉट of a कम्पनी 's वित्तीय condition ''.
Of the four basic वित्तीय कथन, the संतुलन चादर is the तभी बयान जिससे applies to a सिंगल पाइंट in समय of a कारोबार ' calendar year.
A standard company balance sheet रै तीन भाग : एसेट, देनदारी और ownership equity.
The main categories of एसेट हैं प्रायः सूचीबद्ध पहला, और typically in order of liquidity.
Assets हैं followed by the देनदारी.
The difference between the assets and the देनदारी is ज्ञात as इक्विटी or the जाल एसेट or the जाल लायक or पूंजी of the कम्पनी और according to the हिसाब समीकरण, जाल लायक जरूर बराबर एसेट ऋण liabilities.
Another way to look at the same समीकरण is कि एसेट बराबरी देनदारी प्लस owner 's equity.
Looking at the equation in this way shows कैसा एसेट यहूद financed : either by उधार धन ( देयता ) or by using the मालिक 's money ( owner 's equity ).
Balance sheets are usually presented साथ एसेट in एक खण्ड और देनदारी और जाल लायक in the अन्य खण्ड साथ the दो भाग `` balancing. ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing the संपूर्ण बैंको संतुलन at the समाप्त of the काल, प्लस any cash in hand.
However, many businesses are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods और वे acquire इमारतें और उपकरण.
In other words : व्यवसायों have एसेट और so वे can नहीं, भी if वे want to, तत्काल turn these into cash at the end of each period.
Often, ये व्यवसायों owe धन to आपूर्तिकर्ता और to कर अधिकारियों, और the proprietors do नहीं withdraw all their original capital and profits at the end of each period.
In other शब्द व्यवसायों भी have देनदारी.
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly ज्ञात as the.17 hmr, is a rimfire राइफल कार्ट्रिज विकसित by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002.
It descended from the.22 Magnum by necking bas the.22 मैग्नम मामला to लो a.17 कैलिबर ( 4.5 mm ) गोली, और it is अधिक costly to shoot than traditional.22 caliber rimfire cartridges.
Commonly loaded with a 17 अनाज ( 1.1 g ) गोली, it can उद्धार muzzle गतियाँ in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The Schaumburg Flyers were a professional baseball टोली आधारित in schaumburg, इलिनोइस, in the संयुक्त States.
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North अमरीकी लीग, जिससे is नहीं संबद्ध साथ प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल, however, the टोली folded in कूच 2011, पहले वे began खेल in the NAL.
इससे the 1999 ऋतु to the 2010 ऋतु, the flyers निभाई उनके home games at Alexian Field, near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway.
The team formerly played in थंडर खाड़ी, ओंटारियो, जहाँ वे यहूद ज्ञात as the थंडर Bay Whiskey Jacks.
the टोली थी originally a सदस्य of the उत्तरी League from 1993 to 2010.
On July 27, 2009, the Flyers played host to Battle of the Sexes II, जिससे pitted the flyers विरूद्ध the नेशनल प्रो fastpitch सॉफ्टबॉल champions, the शिकागो डाकुओं.
निभाई by आधिकारिक सॉफ्टबॉल नियम, the खेल थी देखी by an overflow record crowd of 8,918, and was won by the Bandits 4-2.
In 1999, the flyers नियुक्त उनके पहला मैनेजर, Ron Kittle.
Kittle is best known for his playing days with the Chicago White Sox, and former Chicago Cubs and श्वेत sox खिलाड़ी ग्रेग hibbard थी the pitching कोच.
During the early years of the franchise, kittle किया a श्रेणी of tv commercials to प्रचार the टोली, using the gimmick `` ma Kittle. '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma. ''
The ads were successful at sparking some initial interest in the टोली as the flyers hoped to चोरी दूर प्रशंसक इससे the nearby Kane County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly successful converse विज्ञापन जहाँ लैरी जॉनसन स्ट्रक्चर as दोनो खुद और `` gramama. ''
At the end of the 2001 season, however, kittle resigned इससे उसके managerial स्थिति, और जिम Boynewicz was hired to replace him.
In 2004, the Flyers made it to the उत्तरी लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी विरूद्ध the st. पॉल संतो.
Despite leading the five-game श्रेणी 2-1, schaumburg आखिरकार lost the series.
In Game 5, Flyers relief pitcher Lyle prempas अनुमत a खेल जीतना ग्रैंड स्लैम by st. पॉल infielder मार्क mirizzi in the ninth inning.
The Flyers appeared in the Northern लीग playoffs चार टाइम्स ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) लकिन never won the championship.
Some famous खिलाड़ी जो निभाई लिये the flyers यहूद पूर्व ओकलैंड a 's outfielder ozzie canseco and former Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
रेचल हन्ना वाइज़ ( / वाइस / ; born 7 कूच 1970 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी फिल्मी और थिएटर actress and former fashion model.
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall, कैम्ब्रिज in the जल्दी 1990s, तब प्रारंभ working in टेलीविज़न, appearing in इंस्पेक्टर मोर्स, the अंग्रेजों mini-series स्कारलेट और ब्लैक, and the television film Advocates II.
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ), but her breakthrough role came in the film कड़ी प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ), अग्रणी to a high-profile भूमिका as एवलिन carnahan-o'connell in the films the मम्मी ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ).
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates, About a Boy, Constantine, The Fountain and The Constant माली, लिये जिससे वो प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार, a सुनहरी ग्लोब और a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं ' गिल्ड पुरस्कार लिये उसके supporting भूमिका as टेसा Quayle.
She has been labelled an `` अंग्रेज़ी रोज़ '' चूंकि उसके नाबालिग भूमिका in चोरी Beauty ( 1996 ).
वाइज़ भी works in थिएटर.
Her stage भेदन थी the 1994 पुनरुद्धार of noël कायर 's खेल डिज़ाइन लिये जीना, which earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse production of Tennessee विलियम्स ' एकाएक, पिछला गर्मियाँ, और उनके 2009 पुनरुद्धार of a स्ट्रीटकार Named Desire.
Her portrayal of blanche dubois in the latter खेल अर्जित उसके the आलोचकों ' वृत्त Theatre Award for Best Actress.
She has recently निभाई evanora in oz the ग्रेट and Powerful.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध.
आठ बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared लिये war.
The Confederates assumed that European देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in South Carolina.
lincoln पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union जल्द नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि crippled the southern economy.
The पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार युद्ध i.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Potato bread is a form of ब्रैड in जिससे आलू replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour.
It is पकाया in a किस्में of विधि, सहित by baking it on a hot griddle or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, और may have a किस्में of अन्य ingredients baked into it.
The ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly इससे रेसिपी to रेसिपी, साथ कुछ व्यंजनों having a बहुमत of आलू, और अन्य having a majority of wheat flour.
Some व्यंजनों कॉल लिये mashed आलू, साथ अन्य calling for dehydrated potato flakes.
it is उपलब्धियाँ as a वाणिज्यिक उत्पाद in many countries, with similar variations in ingredients, cooking method, and other variables.
The प्रशांत समय मण्डल observes मानक समय by subtracting आठ hours from Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
The clock time in this मण्डल is आधारित on the औसत सौर समय of the 120th मध्याह्न वेस्ट of the ग्रीनविच वेधशाला.
During daylight छायांकन समय, इसके समय ऑफसेट is.
in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा, इस समय मण्डल is generically called Pacific Time ( PT ).
Specifically, it is प्रशांत मानक समय ( pst ) जब observing मानक समय ( शीत ), और प्रशांत daylight Time ( PDT ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ).
Most of कनाडा उपयोग daylight छायांकन समय.
In Mexico the utc−8 समय मण्डल is ज्ञात as the उत्तरपश्चिम मण्डल, जिससे is synchronized साथ the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule.
The largest नगर in the प्रशांत समय मण्डल is लॉस एंजिल्स in कैलिफ़ोर्निया इससे यूएसए ; the नगर 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone.
The मण्डल is एक घंटा ahead of the अलास्का समय मण्डल, एक घंटा पीछे the Mountain Time Zone and three hours behind the Eastern Time Zone.
Stereo 8, commonly known as the eight-track cartridge, eight-track टेप, or बस eight-track, is a चुम्बकीय tape sound recording technology.
It was popular in the United राज्य इससे the mid-1960s through to the जल्दी 1980s, लकिन थी अपेक्षाकृत unknown in many European countries.
It was, however, बहुत लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त किंगडम दौरान this period.
स्टीरियो 8 थी निर्मित in 1964 by a consortium led by विधेयक lear of lear जेट निगम, साथ with Ampex, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Motorola, and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ).
It was a further development of the similar stereo-pak four-track कार्ट्रिज निर्मित by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz.
A later quadraphonic संस्करण of the स्वरूप थी घोषित by आरसीए in अप्रैल 1970 और पहला known as Quad-8, then later changed to just Q8.
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or अगस्त 1213 bc ; मिश्र :, alternatively transcribed as rameses और ramses or ), referred to as रामेसेस the Great, was the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty.
He is प्रायः regarded as the महानतम, सबसे मनाये, and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire.
His successors and later उन्होंने पुकारा उसे the `` ग्रेट पूर्वज. ''
Ramesses II led several military रिझाने into the levant, re-asserting मिश्र कंट्रोल over canaan.
He also led रिझाने to the दक्षिण, into नुबिया, commemorated in inscriptions at beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein.
At age fourteen, Ramesses थी नियुक्त प्रिंस रीजेंट by उसके पिता सेती I.
He is believed to have लिया the सिंहासन in उसके लेट किशोर और is ज्ञात to have शासित मिश्र इससे 1279 bc to 1213 bc लिये 66 सालो and 2 months, according to both Manetho and Egypt 's contemporary historical records.
He was once said to have जिया to be 99 सालो बूढ़ा, लकिन it is अधिक संभावित कि he died in his 90th or 91st year.
If he became pharaoh in 1279 bc as सबसे egyptologists आज मानना, he होता have assumed the सिंहासन on may 31, 1279 bc, आधारित on उसके ज्ञात accession date of III Shemu day 27.
Ramesses II मनाये an unprecedented 14 sed त्यौहार ( the पहला आयोजित बाद तीस सालो of a pharaoh 's शासनकाल, और तब प्रत्येक three years ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh.
On his death, he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of the किंग्स ; उसके देह थी बाद स्थानांतरित to a royal संचय जहाँ it थी खोजा in 1881, and is now on display in the Cairo Museum.
The early part of his reign was केन्द्रित on भवन शहरों, मंदिरों और स्मारक.
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses in the nile डेल्टा as उसके नई पूंजी और प्रमुख आधार लिये his campaigns in Syria.
This city was built on the remains of the नगर of avaris, the पूंजी of the हिक्सोस जब वे took over, और थी the स्थान of the main Temple of Set.
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources, from a transliteration into यूनानी of a भाग of रामेसेस 's सिंहासन नाम,, `` ra 's mighty truth, chosen of Ra ''.
the टेक्सास रेंजरों हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल team located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, based in Arlington, Texas.
The Rangers franchise is फिलहाल a सदस्य of the पश्चिमी प्रभाग of Major League Baseball 's American League.
चूंकि, the रेंजरों have निभाई in रेंजरों Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington, Texas.
The team 's name is borrowed from the प्रसिद्ध विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसी of the वही नाम.
The franchise was established in 1961 by the नाम of the वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों, an विस्तार टोली awarded to वॉशिंगटन, d.C., बाद the नगर 's पहला ballclub, the असली वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों, moved to Minnesota and became the Twins.
After the season, the new Senators स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास, और debuted as the रेंजरों the following spring.
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason, सब following प्रभाग championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the Rangers advanced पास्ट the प्रभाग श्रेणी लिये the पहला समय, defeating the tampa Bay Rays.
Texas then brought home their first अमरीकी लीग pennant बाद धड़कन the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ in छह games.
In the 2010 World Series, the मताधिकार 's पहला, the रेंजरों गिरी to the सैन फ्रांसिस्को Giants in five games.
Their lone victory made them the first Texas team to जीत a संसार श्रेणी खेल, the ह्यूस्टन एस्टर्स having महरूम swept in उनके 2005 World Series appearance.
They repeated as American League champions the following साल, तब खोया the 2011 संसार श्रेणी to the st. लुई कार्डिनल्स in seven games.
Gaius Julius Caesar (, July 100 BC – 15 कूच 44 bc ) थी a रोमन सामान्य, statesman, कौंसुल और notable लेखक of Latin prose.
He played a नाजुक भूमिका in the कार्यक्रम कि led to the निधन of the Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman Empire.
In 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus and Pompey formed a राजनैतिक गठबंधन कि थी to dominate रोमन राजनीती लिये अनेक सालो.
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics यहूद opposed by the रूढ़िवादी elite भीतर the रोमन सीनेट, among उन्हें केटो the younger साथ the बारंबार support of Cicero.
Caesar 's conquest of gaul, समाप्त by 51 bc, विस्तारित रोम 's territory to the English Channel and the Rhine.
Caesar became the पहला रोमन सामान्य to क्रॉस दोनो जब he निर्मित a सेतु आरपार the राइन और conducted the first invasion of Britain.
These achievements granted him unmatched military शक्ति और threatened to ग्रहण the खड़ा of pompey, जो था realigned खुद साथ the सीनेट बाद the death of Crassus in 53 BC.
With the Gallic Wars concluded, the Senate ordered सीज़र to lay bas उसके सैन्य कमांड और वापसी to Rome.
Caesar refused, and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing the Rubicon with a लीजन, leaving उसके प्रांत और illegally प्रवेश रोमन territory under arms.
Civil war resulted, इससे जिससे he उभरा as the unrivaled leader of Rome.
After assuming कंट्रोल of सरकारी, सीज़र began a कार्यक्रम of सोशल and governmental reforms, including the creation of the Julian calendar.
He केंद्रीकृत the अफसरशाही of the गणतंत्र और थी आखिरकार proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity ''.
But the underlying political conflicts had not been resolved, and on the ides of कूच ( 15 कूच ) 44 bc, सीज़र थी assassinated by a समूह of सीनेटरों led by मार्कस junius ब्रूटस.
A new series of civil wars broke out, and the संवैधानिक सरकारी of the गणतंत्र थी never restored.
Caesar 's adopted heir octavian, बाद ज्ञात as augustus, रोज़ to एकमात्र शक्ति, and the era of the Roman Empire began.
Much of Caesar 's जीवन is ज्ञात इससे उसके अपना खाते of उसके सैन्य अभियान, और इससे अन्य समकालीन स्त्रोत, मुख्यतः the अक्षर और भाषणों of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust.
The later biographies of सीज़र by suetonius और प्लूटार्क हैं भी प्रमुख स्त्रोत.
Caesar is deemed to be one of the महानतम सैन्य कमांडरों of इतिहास.
Linguistic map of सीरियल, कैमरून, और बेनिन.
Sign in अंग्रेज़ी, बाहर the विश्वविद्यालयों of Lagos
वहीँ हैं सैंकड़ों of भाषाएं spoken in Nigeria.
the प्रमुख भाषाएं हैं योरूबा, हौसा, Igbo, Edo, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The official language of सीरियल, अंग्रेज़ी, the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा, थी चुनी to सुकर the सांस्कृतिक and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an विशेष बचाना of the देश 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely बोला in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं परिवारों : afroasiatic, nilo-saharan, और Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an भी वृहद विविधता prior to the स्प्रेड of the वर्तमान language families.
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot, ( UK ) bird 's nest, bishop 's lace, and महारानी ऐनी 's फीता ( उत्तर अमेरिका ) ) is a flowering संयंत्र in the परिवार apiaceae, देशी to शीतोष्ण regions of Europe, southwest Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia.
domesticated गाजर are cultivars of a subspecies, Daucus carota subsp. sativus.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in आलेख ii of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of कॉंग्रेस to alter, अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13 न्यायालयों of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) साथ appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over अलग regions of the संयुक्त States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the मुख्य इंसाफ और संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत, सर्किट न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों of appeals, और ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त States district courts.
All of these judges वर्णित यूँ दूर हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, judges of the Court of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार कसरत न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट, और their power derives from Article I instead.
See Article I और आलेख iii अधिकरणों.
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born दिसम्बर 2, 1978 ) is a कनाडाई सिंगर, songwriter and actress.
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and अधिक 20 लाख singles, bringing उसके कुल बिक्री to over 40 लाख रिकॉर्ड around the world.
Furtado first gained कीर्ति साथ उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, वाह, Nelly !
, which spawned दो कामयाब singles, `` i 'm जैसे a बर्ड `` और `` Turn Off the Light ``. ``
I 'm जैसे a बर्ड '' जीती a 2001 juno पुरस्कार लिये सिंगल of the साल और a 2002 Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.
In 2003, Furtado released Folklore, which produced three अंतरराष्ट्रीय singles— `` powerless ( कह कया तुम want ) ``, `` कोशिश `` और `` força ``.
Three years later she released ढीला, a विश्वव्यापी वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी.
The album spawned four number-one हिट्स : `` promiscuous ``, `` maneater ``, `` कह it Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) ``.
बाद a three-year ब्रेक, वो released उसके पहला full-length स्पेनी एल्बम, mi योजना, and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album.
In 2012, फ़र्टाडो 's चौथी english-language स्टुडियो album, The Spirit Indestructible was released.
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous awards and accolades, सहित 2 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 10 juno पुरस्कार, 3 muchmusic वीडियो पुरस्कार और a स्टार on कनाडा 's Walk of Fame.
जीव of the रात्रि is the tenth studio album by Kiss.
It is the band 's पिछला एल्बम लिये कासाब्लांका रिकॉर्ड, the तभी लेबल the समूह था कभी अंकित for at that point.
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca founder और जल्दी चुंबन समर्थक neil bogart, जो था died of कर्कट during the recording sessions.
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's Psycho सर्कस ), और इसके पहला एल्बम साथ vinnie विंसेंट as the initially uncredited सीसे guitarist ( विंसेंट होता बाद be credited, लकिन नहीं प्रदर्शित pictorially on the कवर, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
टच is a निर्णायक means of receiving information.
This फ़ोटो shows tactile markings identifying सीढ़ियाँ for visually impaired people.
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system comprising the receptors and processing केंद्रों to उपज the संवेदी modalities ऐसे as टच, तापमान, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
The sensory receptors cover the स्किन और epithelia, skeletal मांसपेशियां, हड्डियों और joints, आतंरिक organs, and the cardiovascular system.
While touch is considered one of the पाँच परंपरागत होश, the छाप of टच is formed from several modalities.
In medicine, the colloquial पद `` टच '' is प्रायः replaced साथ `` दैहिक होश '' to बेहतर reflect the variety of mechanisms involved.
दैहिक होश हैं sometimes referred to as somesthetic होश, साथ the समझना कि somesthesis includes touch, proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception.
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors और chemoreceptors.
Transmission of information from the receptors गुजरता via संवेदी nerves through tracts in the स्पाइनल cord और into the brain.
Processing primarily occurs in the प्राथमिक somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex.
The cortical homunculus थी devised by Wilder Penfield.
At its simplest, the system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as heat ; this signal आखिरकार गुजरता to an क्षेत्रफल in the दिमाग uniquely attributed to कि क्षेत्रफल on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be लगा at the सही स्थान.
The point-to-point मानचित्रण of the देह सतहों in the दिमाग is पुकारा a homunculus और is अनिवार्य in the सृष्टि of a body image.
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) मैप is नहीं अपरिवर्तनीय, however.
Dramatic शिफ्ट can occur in जवाब to स्ट्रोक or injury.
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210 flowering संयंत्र प्रजाति in the subfamily magnolioideae of the परिवार magnoliaceae.
It is named बाद फ्रेंच वनस्पतिशास्त्री पियरे magnol.
magnolia is an प्राचीन genus.
Appearing before bees किया, the पुष्प विकसित to प्रोत्साहित pollination by beetles.
To avoid क्षति इससे pollinating भृंग, the carpels of Magnolia flowers are extremely tough.
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have महरूम मिला डेटिंग to 20 लाख सालो पहले, और of पौधे identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago.
Another aspect of magnolias कि is माना to represent an ancestral राज्य is कि the पुष्प कली is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals.
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic साथ अनेक अन्य flowering पौधे निकट the आधार of the flowering संयंत्र lineage ऐसे as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ).
The natural range of Magnolia species is a disjunct distribution, with a main centre in ईस्ट और southeast एशिया और a द्वितीयक केन्द्र in पूर्वी उत्तर अमेरिका, सेंट्रल अमेरिका, the वेस्ट इंडीज, और some species in South America.
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas '' is an Irving बर्लिन सोंग reminiscing परिचय an old-fashioned Christmas setting.
According to the Guinness Book of संसार रिकॉर्ड, the संस्करण सुंग by bing crosby is the best-selling सिंगल of सब time, with estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide.
खाते vary as to जब और where Berlin wrote the song.
One story is कि he लिखा it in 1940, in गरम la quinta, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, जबकि रहकर at the la quinta होटल, a बारंबार हॉलीवुड रिट्रीट भी favored by writer-producer Frank Capra, although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there.
He often stayed up all रात्रि लिखने — he बताई उसके सचिव, `` पकड़ें अपना कलम and take down this song.
I just wrote the बेहतरीन सोंग i 've कभी लिखा — हेक, i बस लिखा the बेहतरीन सोंग कि anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski touring in which भागीदार propel themselves आरपार snow-covered मैदान using skis and poles.
The activity is popular in अनेक स्थान साथ विशाल snowfields, primarily उत्तरी Europe, Canada, and Alaska.
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing खेल परिवार, जिससे शामिल स्की कूद, nordic संयुक्त ( cross-country स्कीइंग और स्की कूद ), biathlon ( स्कीइंग and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ).
Cross-country skiing is the आधुनिक स्टाइल of स्कीइंग कि सबसे resembles प्रागैतिहासिक स्कीइंग, विशेषकर जब किया in the backcountry.
It is also सम्बन्धित to telemark स्कीइंग.
A use tax in संयुक्त राज्य is पूरक to बिक्री कर जिससे अर्थात्, if you buy a Taxable product/services without paying any Sales tax to vendor, you owe use tax.
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to the राज्य जहाँ the उत्पाद यहूद खपत or सेवाएं यहूद rendered.
Use tax typically is a tax on खपत लकिन if तुम ख़रीदे an मद ( बगैर paying बिक्री कर ) और स्टोर it in your warehouse initially, use tax applies to that location where goods were stored.
Later on when the final consumption takes place at कुछ अन्य स्थान, तुम हैं जरूरी to अदा the अवकल of कर रेट to the क्षेत्राधिकार of परम place of consumption.
This really means that you do n't have to अदा दोनो बिक्री कर as खूब as उपयोग Tax on one transaction.
It is only one or the अन्य कि तुम हैं जरूरी to अदा on खरीदें of taxable products/services.
If vendor does n't charge any Sales tax on its invoice then it is the दायित्व of the खरीदार to स्वः assess उपयोग कर और अदा it to the उचित jurisdication.
Use Tax is generally charged at the same कर रेट of बिक्री कर लकिन in कुछ राज्य the कर रेट is अलग.
Use tax is भी termed as `` खपत कर '' or `` उपभोक्ता उपयोग Tax ''.
a उपयोग कर is a प्रकार of excise कर levied in the United States by numerous state governments.
it is assessed upon ठोस निजी प्रॉपर्टी खरीदा by a निवासी of the assessing राज्य लिये use, storage, or consumption in that state ( not for resale ), regardless of where the purchase took place.
If a निवासी of a राज्य makes a खरीदें भीतर उसके घर राज्य, पूरा बिक्री कर is सशुल्क at the time of the transaction.
The use tax applies जब a निवासी of the assessing राज्य purchases an मद कि is नहीं विषय to his home state 's sales tax.
Usually, this is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering वस्तुएं through the मेल, by फोन, or over the अंतरजाल from other states.
The use tax is typically assessed at the same rate as the बिक्री कर कि होता have महरूम owed ( if कोई ) था the वही goods महरूम खरीदा in the state of residence.
For example, a resident of Massachusetts, साथ a 6.25 % `` बिक्री और उपयोग कर '' on निश्चित goods और सेवाएं, purchases non-exempt goods or सेवाएं in नई हैम्पशायर for use, storage or other consumption in Massachusetts.
अंतर्गत नई हैम्पशायर विधि, the नई हैम्पशायर विक्रेता collects no बिक्री कर on the goods, लकिन the मैसाचुसेट्स purchaser/user must still pay 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax.
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of खरीदें, whatever कर यहूद सशुल्क by the क्रेता to कि राज्य can be deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) इससे the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent उपयोग, भंडार or consumption in Massachusetts.
With few exceptions, no state 's vendors will charge the native state 's sales कर on goods shipped आउट of राज्य, अर्थ सब goods ordered इससे out-of-state हैं essentially free of sales tax.
The purchaser is इसलिए जरूरी to घोषित और अदा the उपयोग कर to his home state on these ordered goods.
The assessing jurisdiction may मेक the उपयोग कर देय annually, लकिन कुछ राज्य आवश्यकता a मासिक भुगतान.
For example, where a वर्मांट निवासी रै नहीं सशुल्क at तनिक 6 % बिक्री कर on प्रॉपर्टी brought in लिये उपयोग in the राज्य, वर्मांट विधि requires दाखिल a कर वापसी ( रूप su-452 और भुगतान ) by the 20th दिन of the माह following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee, a 5 % penalty per month, to a maximum of 25 %, plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties.
Typical exemptions शामिल purchases by charitable non-profit संगठन or सरकारी एजेंसियों, purchases लिये पुनर्विक्रय in कॉमर्स, और purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business.
Also note that there are thousands of tax jurisdictions in the u.S. और अनेक have ever-changing सूचियाँ of विशिष्ट प्रकार of goods और सेवाएं कि हैं नहीं taxable.
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires भुगतान of कर on `` pre-written '' ( नहीं कस्टम ) तन्त्र खरीदा और डाउनलोड over the अंतरजाल लिये संस्थापना और उपयोग in मैसाचुसेट्स, regardless of where it originates.
However, the actual use of the वही तन्त्र डाउनलोड by a मैसाचुसेट्स निवासी to a सर्वर in another राज्य remains a non-taxed `` service ''.
In contrast, Arkansas generally करता नहीं कर anything वितरित over the अंतरजाल ( ऐसे as डाउनलोड तन्त्र or म्यूज़िक ), मगर voip which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered ऑनलाइन, मगर `` कस्टम तन्त्र लिये a particular ग्राहक '' जिससे is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if delivered on a disk.
In most cases, this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the sales tax laws of इसके अपना स्थान, रिमोट विक्रेता have to सौदे साथ the उपयोग कर कानून of अनेक jurisdictions—up to प्रत्येक us राज्य और मोहल्ले कि प्रकृती उन्हें, if the कम्पनी रै a उपस्थिति or `` नेक्सस '' in प्रत्येक राज्य ( as विशाल `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ).
In medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood दबाव in the pulmonary धमनी, pulmonary रग, or pulmonary capillaries, साथ ज्ञात as the फेफड़ों vasculature, अग्रणी to shortness of साँस, dizziness, fainting, और अन्य symptoms, all of which are exacerbated by exertion.
Pulmonary hypertension can be a कठोर बीमारी साथ a markedly decreased कसरत सहिष्णुता और दिल विफलता.
It was पहला पहचाना by dr. अर्नस्ट वोन romberg in 1891.
According to the most recent classification, it can be एक of पाँच अलग प्रकार : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or विविध.
सही
सही
Sanuk, a division of Deckers Outdoor Corporation, is a जूते ब्रांड आधारित in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Sanuk, the Thai word for fun, was founded by Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया देशी जेफ़ kelley जब he प्रारंभ बनाना चप्पल आउट of indoor-outdoor carpet.
The first product created was green carpeted और हकदार the `` फर रियल '' बाद एक दूकान मालिक asked if the novelty sandal was `` For Real. ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through बुटीक स्टोर्स और नहीं the intended लहरे shops.
The novelty अधिनियम थी followed up by a चन्दन लपेटा in तार जाल, a तेंदुआ छपाई संस्करण, and styles made out of a poncho material in a variety of colors.
Sanuk has grown to include style options for men, women and youth and is distributed आरपार the संयुक्त राज्य और in over 50 देशों throughout यूरोपीय, एशिया, दक्षिण अमेरिका और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Sanuk centers itself around a धनात्मक जीवनशैली वकालत the slogan, `` Smile, Pass it on ! ``.
In computer science, array programming languages ( also known as vector or multidimensional भाषाएं ) generalize परिचालन on scalars to लागू transparently to vectors, matrices, and higher dimensional arrays.
Array programming primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस व्यापक विचार परिचय आंकड़ा हेरफेर.
The level of conciseness can be नाटकीय in निश्चित मामले : it is नहीं uncommon to ढूँढें सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code.
apl, designed by केन iverson, थी the पहला प्रोग्रामिंग language to provide array programming capabilities.
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming भाषा '' और नहीं to arrays प्रति se. iverson 's योगदान to rigor और स्पष्टता थी संभवतः अधिक महत्वपूर्ण than the simple extension of dimensions to functions.
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party, usually an व्यक्तिगत, pays a जीवन बीमे कम्पनी a सिंगल प्रीमियम कि होगा बाद be वितरित वापस to the insured party over time.
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a गारंटी वितरण of आय over समय, ऐसे as via फिक्स्ड भुगतान, जबतक the death of the person or persons named in the contract or until a final date, whichever comes first.
However, the majority of modern annuity ग्राहक उपयोग annuities तभी to accumulate निधि फ़्री of आय और पूंजी gains कर और to बाद लो lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature.
अध्यक्ष बराक Obama.
Barack Obama with his first परम् अदालत nominee, सोनिया Sotomayor.
Following is a list of all संयुक्त राज्य संघीय न्यायाधीशों नियुक्त by अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा during his presidency.
As of April 30, 2013, 187 Obama नामांकित to आलेख iii judgeships have महरूम पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट, namely दो justices to the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त States, 35 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts.
25 further nominations हैं फिलहाल प्रतीक्षारत Senate action.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of Appeals, 67 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों और 22 अतिरिक्त संघीय न्यायपालिका vacancies कि हैं anticipated to occur पहले the समाप्त of ओबामा 's second term.
Obama has not made any recess नियुक्ति to the संघीय न्यायालयों.
Obama has made two nominations to the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार, an आलेख iii tribunal.
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United राज्य अदालत of संघीय दावा, an आलेख i अदालत, to be मुख्य Judge of that court.
इस is a सूची of एयरपोर्ट in Mexico, sorted by location.
मैक्सिको रै परिचय 1,834 एयरपोर्ट, रैंकिंग 2nd in क्रमांक of एयरपोर्ट in North America, and 3rd in the world.
Only major नेशनल और अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट are shown.
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a सुरक्षा, प्रायः a बंध, जारी by a u.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these agencies are backed but not गारंटी by the us सरकारी चूंकि the एजेंसियों हैं private entities.
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan विपणन संघ ( sallie mae ), संघीय नेशनल बंधक संघ ( fannie mae ) और संघीय घर ऋण बंधक निगम ( फ्रेडी Mac ).
Agency प्रतिभूति हैं प्रायः exempt इससे state and local taxes, but not federal tax.
Agency debt is भी पुकारा an एजेंसी security.
The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, a खौलते जल रिएक्टर.
The reactors are located inside the आयताकार containment इमारतें towards the सामने of the कूलिंग मीनारें.
Three nuclear-powered American warships, ( शीर्ष to नीचे ) नाभिकीय cruisers uss bainbridge और uss long बीच साथ uss एंटरप्राइज़ the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964.
Crew members हैं स्पेलिंग आउट आइंस्टीन 's mass-energy equivalence formula E = mc2 on the flight deck.
The Russian nuclear-powered हिमभंजक ns yamal on a 1994 संयुक्त expedition with the NSF.
Nuclear power is the use of sustained नाभिकीय परिवर्द्धन to generate ऊष्मा और विद्युत.
Nuclear power पौधे provided परिचय 5.7 % of the संसार 's उर्जा और 13 % of the world 's electricity, in 2012.
In 2013, the IAEA report कि वहीँ हैं 437 operational नाभिकीय शक्ति रिएक्टरों ( हालांकि नहीं all are producing electricity ), in 31 countries.
In जोड, वहीँ हैं लगभग 140 नवल बरतन using नाभिकीय propulsion in operation, powered by some 180 reactors.
There is an जारी बहस परिचय the उपयोग of nuclear energy.
proponents, ऐसे as the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, the iaea और पर्यावरणविद लिये नाभिकीय उर्जा contend कि नाभिकीय शक्ति is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, such as Greenpeace अंतरराष्ट्रीय और nirs, मानना कि नाभिकीय शक्ति मुद्राएँ अनेक खतरे to people and the environment.
नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र दुर्घटनाओं शामिल the chernobyl विपत्ति ( 1986 ), फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति ( 2011 ), and the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ).
वहीँ have भी महरूम कुछ nuclear-powered submarine mishaps.
Research into safety improvements is continuing and नाभिकीय संलयन, believed to be safer, may be used in the future.
As of 2012, according to the iaea, विश्वव्यापी वहीँ यहूद 68 सिविल नाभिकीय शक्ति reactors under construction in 15 countries.
In the US the licenses of almost हाफ इसके रिएक्टरों have महरूम विस्तारित to 60 सालो, और योजनाएँ to निर्माण another दर्जन हैं अंतर्गत serious consideration.
However, Japan 's 2011 Fukushima daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति prompted a पुनर्विचार of नाभिकीय उर्जा नीति in अनेक देशों.
Germany decided to close all its reactors by 2022, और इटली रै बैन नाभिकीय शक्ति.
Following Fukushima, the International Energy Agency halved its अनुमान of अतिरिक्त नाभिकीय generating क्षमता to be निर्मित by 2035.
Photograph of the बर्लिन वॉल लिया इससे the West side.
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent ईस्ट germans इससे fleeing इससे Communism.
It was an iconic symbol of the Cold युद्ध और इसके पतन in 1989 चिह्नित the समाप्त of the War.
The Cold War, often dated from 1947 to 1991, was a sustained state of political and military tension between शक्तियां in the पश्चिमी bloc, वर्चस्व by the संयुक्त राज्य साथ नाटो among इसके allies, और शक्तियां in the पूर्वी bloc, वर्चस्व by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact.
This began after the success of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi जर्मनी, leaving the ussr और the us as दो superpowers साथ profound आर्थिक और राजनैतिक मतभेद.
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned गति संस्थापित by मिश्र, इण्डिया, और यूगोस्लाविया ; इस गुट अस्वीकृत संघ साथ either the US-led West or the Soviet-led East.
The Cold War was so named because the two major powers—each possessing नाभिकीय हथियार और thereby threatened साथ परस्पर assured विनाश —never met in direct military combat.
बजाय, in उनके संघर्ष लिये वैश्विक influence वे सगाई in जारी मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare और in नियमित indirect confrontations through proxy wars.
Cycles of relative calm would be followed by ऊँची टेंशन, जिससे could have led to संसार war.
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ), the स्वेज संकट ( 1956 ), the बर्लिन संकट of 1961, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट ( 1962 ), the वियतनाम युद्ध ( 1959–1975 ), the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ), the Soviet war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ), the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict was expressed through सैन्य coalitions, रणनीतिक conventional फ़ोर्स deployments, extensive सहायता to क्लाएंट राज्य, espionage, विशाल प्रचार अभियान, conventional और नाभिकीय बाहें दौड़, appeals to न्यूट्रल राष्ट्र, फंसने at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ), and technological competitions such as the Space Race.
The US and USSR became involved in political and military विरोध in the तीसरा संसार देशों of लैटिन अमेरिका, अफ़्रीकी, the मध्य ईस्ट, और southeast एशिया.
to alleviate the रिस्क of a संभावित नाभिकीय युद्ध, दोनो पहलू sought relief of political tensions through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the संयुक्त राज्य increased राजनयिक, सैन्य, और आर्थिक pressures on the सोवियत संघ, at a time when the communist state was already suffering from economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the new Soviet President Mikhail गोर्बाचेव introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures for national स्वतंत्रता grew stronger in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, especially Poland.
They reached a breaking point when गोर्बाचेव refused to उपयोग सोवियत सैनिकों to support the faltering सरकारी of East Germany in late 1989.
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from मास्को in a शांतिपूर्ण वेव of revolutions ( वहीँ थी कुछ हिंसा in रोमानिया ).
The pressures escalated inside the सोवियत संघ, जहाँ साम्यवादी गिरी और the ussr was formally dissolved in late 1991.
The United राज्य remained as the संसार 's तभी महाशक्ति.
The Cold War and its events have left a significant विरासत, और it is प्रायः referred to in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, विशेषकर in media featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.
Pikes Peak State Park is a state park of आयोवा, यूएसए, featuring a bluff निहार the अपर मिसिसिपी नदी विपरीत the संगम of the Wisconsin River.
The park is संचालित by the आयोवा विभाग of प्राकृतिक संसाधन.
it is nearly a हजार एकड़ ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
The निकटतम नगर is मैकग्रेगर, Iowa.
Iowa Highway 76 लगभग defines इसके उत्तरी boundary.
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of pikes शिखर, a विशेषकर ऊँची पाइंट निहार the gorge of the अपर मिसिसिपी, और जैसे pikes शिखर in Colorado, is named for Zebulon Pike.
There are चढ़ाई trails, campgrounds और RV facilities.
पहाड़ बाइक हैं permitted in निश्चित portions of the park.
Aside from recreational विकास, the जमीन in the पार्क थी never साफ और to a विशाल extent remains as it was before the advent of white settlement.
It is part of a larger complex of parks, reserves and refuges which include Effigy Mounds National Monument, the various components of the पीला नदी राज्य वन, the विशाल अपर मिसिसिपी नदी नेशनल वन्यजीव और मछली शरण और much छोटी, much कम खूब ज्ञात driftless क्षेत्रफल नेशनल वन्यजीव शरण.
The Northeast Iowa Legacy ट्रेल प्रणाली is undergoing विकास, और होगा कनेक्ट तत्व of these sites.
Zac Brown Band is an अमरीकी country/folk बैंड आधारित in अटलांटा, Georgia.
The लाइनअप consists of zac भूरा ( सीसे vocals, गिटार ), jimmy de मार्टिनी ( चलाऊ, vocals ), जॉन driskell हॉपकिंस ( बास गिटार, vocals ), coy bowles ( गिटार, keyboards ), क्रिस fryar ( ड्रम ), Clay Cook ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ).
The band has toured throughout the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित a स्लॉट on the 2009 और 2010 bonnaroo Music Festival.
They have also recorded five studio albums, और charted नौ क्रमांक एक singles on the बिलबोर्ड देश चार्ट : `` मुर्गा fried ``, `` toes ``, `` राजमार्ग 20 सवारी ``, `` फ़्री ``, `` as वो 's चलना दूर ``, `` colder मौसम ``, `` घुटना गहन ``, `` रखना me in दिमाग ``, and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in addition to the singles `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry ``, which peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
Talk रेडियो is a रेडियो स्वरूप containing चर्चा about topical issues.
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single individual, और प्रायः विशेषता साक्षात्कार साथ a क्रमांक of अलग अतिथि.
Talk radio typically includes an element of listener participation, usually by broadcasting live बातचीत between the मेजबान और श्रोता जो `` कॉल in '' ( प्रायः via टेलीफोन ) to the show.
Listener contributions are usually screened by a दिखाएँ 's निर्माता ( s ) in अनुक्रम to अधिकतम दर्शक ब्याज और, in the मामला of वाणिज्यिक बात radio, attract advertisers.
Generally, the shows are organized into segments, each separated by a pause for विज्ञापन ; however, in पब्लिक or non-commercial रेडियो, म्यूज़िक is sometimes निभाई in प्लेस of commercials to पृथक the program segments.
विसंगतियाँ of बात रेडियो शामिल रूढ़िवादी बात, hot बात, उदार talk and sports talk.
While talk radio has historically been associated with am/fm, starting around 2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी लिये internet-based talk-radio shows became लागत प्रभावी in the form of podcasts.
Now, it is possible for an individual to use a variety of services to मेजबान an internet-based talk-radio दिखाएँ बगैर carriage by a परंपरागत रेडियो station.
In addition TV programming from talk and news आउटलेट ऐसे as बीबीसी, सीएनएन, ब्लूमबर्ग और फॉक्स हैं अभी प्रायः उपलब्धियाँ expanding the world of talk radio further.
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios, but a wide variety of अन्य डिवाइस और सेवाएं सहित pcs using itunes, स्टेशन निर्देशिका ऐसे as tunein, दिखाएँ निर्देशिका स्मार्टफ़ोन साथ apps such as Stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the परिवार hippidae, containing the following species:
Hippa adactyla fabricius, 1787
hippa admirabilis ( thallwitz, 1892 )
Hippa alcimede ( de man, 1902 )
Hippa australis hale, 1927
hippa carcineutes holthuis & मैनिंग, 1970
hippa celaeno ( de Man, 1896 )
hippa granulatus ( borradaile, 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( दाना, 1852 )
hippa इंडिका haig, मुरुगन & बालकृष्णन Nair, 1986
Hippa marmorata ( hombron & jacquinot, 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
Hippa picta ( heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( miers, 1878 )
It is closely related to the genus emerita, और प्रजाति have प्रायः महरूम transferred between the two genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially ज्ञात as the खास पूंजी प्रदेश of जकार्ता ( ), is the capital and largest city of Indonesia.
Located on the उत्तरपश्चिम coast of जावा, जकार्ता is the देश 's आर्थिक, सांस्कृतिक और राजनैतिक केन्द्र, और साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of 10,187,595 as of नवम्बर 2011, it is the सबसे populous नगर in इंडोनेशिया और in southeast एशिया, और is the thirteenth most populated city in the world.
The official metropolitan area, known as Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the आरंभिक syllables of जकार्ता, bogor, depok, tangerang और bekasi ), is the दूसरी largest in the संसार, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it.
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 वैश्वीकरण और संसार शहरों पढ़ाई Group and Network ( GaWC ) research.
और रै an area of.
This area has population of well over 28 लाख, बनाना it एक of the संसार 's largest conurbations in शर्तें of क्रमांक of निवासियों.
In 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the संसार 's 200 largest शहरों, a जम्प इससे its 2007 ranking of 171.
Jakarta has grown अधिक rapidly than kuala lumpur, बीजिंग and Bangkok.
Established in the चौथी सदी, the नगर became an महत्वपूर्ण व्यापार बंदरगाहों लिये the किंगडम of Sunda.
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( जब it थी ज्ञात as batavia ) और रै जारी as the पूंजी of इंडोनेशिया चूंकि the देश 's स्वतंत्रता was declared in 1945.
The city is the सीट of the आसियान सचिवालय.
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, Halim Perdanakusuma International विमानक्षेत्र, और tanjung priok harbour ; it is कनेक्ट by अनेक intercity और commuter रेल, और परोसा by अनेक बस लाइनों कार्यशील on reserved busways.
A typical घर एयर कंडीशनिंग खिड़की unit.
Air conditioning is the process of altering the गुण of एयर ( primarily तापमान और आर्द्रता ) to अधिक favourable conditions.
More generally, एयर कंडीशनिंग can refer to कोई रूप of technological कूलिंग, heating, ventilation, or disinfection that modifies the condition of air.
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con, AC or A/C, और नहीं to be उलझन साथ the संक्षिप्त लिये प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान ) is a प्रमुख or घर appliance, प्रणाली, or यांत्रिकी designed to बदलें the एयर तापमान and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ).
The कूलिंग is typically किया using a सरल प्रशीतन साईकिल, लकिन sometimes वाष्पीकरण is प्रयुक्त, commonly लिये comfort cooling in buildings and motor vehicles.
In construction, a complete प्रणाली of हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन और एयर कंडीशनिंग is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( भी styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a सोंग by अमरीकी rapper लील Wayne featuring label mate, Cory Gunz.
It is taken इससे उसके नवीं स्टुडियो एल्बम, Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on itunes on दिसम्बर 16, 2010.
It was उत्पादित by `` a milli `` निर्माता Bangladesh.
The song samples `` Day-O ( The banana नाव सोंग ) `` by हैरी belafonte.
DC Talk ( styled as dc बात ), is a ग्रैमी -winning ईसाई रैप trio.
The group was formed in Lynchburg, वर्जिनिया in 1987 by टोबी mckeehan, माइकल tait, और केविन अधिकतम स्मिथ.
They have released पाँच प्रमुख स्टुडियो एल्बम साथ : dc बात ( 1989 ), nu थांग ( 1990 ), फ़्री at पिछला ( 1992 ), यीशु Freak ( 1995 ), and Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of Contemporary ईसाई म्यूज़िक पुकारा dc बात `` the सबसे लोकप्रिय overtly ईसाई अधिनियम of all time. ''
In 2000, the group released an EP titled Solo which contained दो सोलो गीतों इससे प्रत्येक सदस्य.
Since that समय, dc बात रै महरूम on an indefinite अंतराल, और the तीन band members have each led solo careers.
They have performed and recorded व्यक्तिगत गीतों साथ अनेक टाइम्स दौरान the 2000s, although the group never officially reunited or disbanded.
The समूह 's musical स्टाइल विकसित significantly throughout their career.
Their first two releases, DC Talk and nu थांग, यहूद of the हिप hop genre.
DC Talk 's तीसरा एल्बम, फ़्री at पिछला, भी मुख्यतः took influence इससे the हिप हॉप स्टाइल, हालांकि उनके म्यूज़िक began taking on a rock sound.
The trio 's last two albums, यीशु freak और अलौकिक, यहूद predominantly pop rock.
The Bible is a संकलन of अनेक shorter किताबे लिखा at अलग टाइम्स और बाद समवेत into the biblical canon.
All but the shortest of these किताबे have महरूम विभाजित into अध्याय, generally a पेज or so in length, since the early 13th century.
Since the mid-16th century, each chapter रै महरूम further विभाजित into `` आयतें '' of a few short lines or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse, as in the मामला of, और sometimes वहीँ is अधिक than एक वाक्य in a सिंगल श्लोक, as in the case of.
As the chapter and verse divisions यहूद नहीं भाग of the असली ग्रन्थ, वे रूप भाग of the paratext of the Bible.
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew टेक्स्ट differ at विभिन्न अंक इससे those प्रयुक्त by ईसाइयों.
For instance, in Jewish परंपरा, the ascriptions to अनेक ज़बूर हैं regarded as स्वतंत्र आयतें, बनाना 116 अधिक आयतें, whereas the स्थापित ईसाई practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions also occur in different places, e.g. in यहूदी bibles is गिने as in ईसाई अनुवाद.
An index ( बहुवचन : indexes ) is a सूची of शब्द or वाक्यांश ( 'headings ' ) और संबद्ध संकेतक ( 'लोकेटरs ' ) to जहाँ उपयोगी सामग्री relating to that heading can be found in a document.
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings will शामिल names of लोगों, स्थान और कार्यक्रम, और अवधारणाओं चयनित by a व्यक्ति as होने प्रासंगिक और of ब्याज to a संभावित रीडर of the book.
The pointers are typically page numbers, अनुच्छेद संख्याएँ or खण्ड numbers.
In a पुस्तकालयों कैटलॉग the शब्द हैं लेखक, शीर्षक, विषय headings, etc., and the pointers are call numbers.
Internet search engines, such as Google, and full text searching help provide access to information लकिन हैं नहीं as चयनात्मक as an अनुक्रमणिका, as वे provide non-relevant कड़ी, और may मिस प्रासंगिक सूचना if it is नहीं phrased in exactly the रास्ता वे expect.
In United States financial regulation, a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a रपट बना by a वित्तीय संस्था to the वित्तीय अपराधों प्रवर्तन संजाल ( fincen ), an एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the राजकोष, regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity.
फेसबुक on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब दिए to विद्यार्थी at the प्रारंभ of the अकादमिक साल by कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों administrations in the संयुक्त States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in फ़रवरी 2004 by चिह्नित zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, लकिन थी विस्तारित to अन्य कॉलेजों in the बोस्टन क्षेत्रफल, the आइवी लीग, and Stanford University.
It धीरे added support लिये विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों before opening to high school students, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता of the site.
Users must register before using the site, बाद जिससे वे may बनाएँ a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल, add अन्य उपयोक्ता as मित्रों, और एक्सचेंज संदेश, सहित स्वचालित notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, स्कूल or कॉलेज, or अन्य विशेषताएँ, और categorize उनके मित्रों into सूचियाँ ऐसे as `` लोगों इससे कार्य '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, फेसबुक रै over one billion active users.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, there हैं 7.5 लाख children अंतर्गत 13 साथ खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10, violating the साईट 's शर्तें of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक, और जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा by विश्वव्यापी मासिक active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the साईट on इसके end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' सूची, saying, `` कैसा on धरती किया we stalk हमारी exes, याद हमारी co-workers ' जन्मदिन, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
आलोचकों, ऐसे as फेसबुक detox, राज्य कि फेसबुक रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 लाख मासिक अद्वितीय u.S. विज़िटर in may 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a फेसबुक खाता.
nevertheless, फेसबुक 's मार्केट विकास प्रारंभ to स्टाल in कुछ regions, with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in मेनलो पार्क, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
फेसबुक inc. began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक और व्यापार on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
सल्फोनेमाइड कार्यात्मक group
Hydrochlorothiazide is a सल्फोनेमाइड और a thiazide.
furosemide is a सल्फोनेमाइड, but not a thiazide.
सल्फोनेमाइड or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of drugs.
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa दवाएँ or sulpha दवाएँ ) हैं सिंथेटिक रोगाणुरोधी एजेंटों कि contain the sulfonamide group.
Some sulfonamides are also विहीन of जीवाणुरोधी कार्यकलाप, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are नए ड्रग समूह आधारित on the जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies are आम, hence medications containing sulfonamides हैं prescribed carefully.
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives, such as sulfates और sulfites, जिससे हैं chemically unrelated to the सल्फोनेमाइड समूह, और do नहीं कारण the वही hypersensitivity प्रतिक्रियाएँ देखी in the sulfonamides.
This is a list of वर्ण इससे जार्ज लोपेज़.
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) हैं domesticated धूसर geese ( either ग्रेलैग geese or swan geese ) रखा as poultry for their meat, eggs, and down feathers since ancient times.
30 Seconds to Mars is an अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड इससे लॉस एंजिल्स, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals, लय गिटार, songwriter ), शैनन leto ( ड्रम, percussion ) और tomo miličević ( lead guitar, keyboards ).
following the प्रस्थान of मैट wachter ( अभी of फ़रिश्ते & airwaves ) in 2007, टिम kelleher became the bassist लिये the समूह, performing सजीव only with both Jared and Miličević recording bass for studio recordings, while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009.
previously, the समूह भी प्रदर्शित guitarists solon bixler ( now of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ).
To date, 30 Seconds to Mars have released तीन स्टुडियो एल्बम – 30 सेकेंड to मंगल ( 2002 ), a Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ), This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ), To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ), and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog, progressive मेटल और post-grunge, लकिन वे have भी शामिल भावनाएं, screamo, स्पेस चट्टान और synthrock into their music.
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who were an influence on their work ) and Tool because of their use of philosophical और आध्यात्मिक गीत, अवधारणा albums and their use of experimental music.
A Christmas Story is a 1983 अमरीकी क्रिसमस कॉमेडी फिल्मी आधारित on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of लेखक और raconteur जां गड़रिये, आधारित on his book In God We Trust, All Others Pay Cash, with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories.
It was निर्देशित by bob क्लार्क.
The film has since become a अवकाश क्लासिक और is दिखाया numerous टाइम्स on टेलीविज़न दौरान the क्रिसमस season on the network TBS, often in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the film was selected for preservation in the National Film रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस लिये होने `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A Joe 's Crab Shack शाखा in सैन डिएगो, ca.
The building was initially a rowing क्लबों और थी बाद परिवर्तित into the restaurant.
Joe 's Crab Shack is an अमरीकी कड़ी of beach-themed seafood कैज़ुअल डाइनिंग रेस्तरां स्वामित्व by ignite रेस्तरां Group.
संस्थापित in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास, the रेस्तरां अभी operates locations all across the United States of America.
It serves seafood और अमरीकी भोजन.
The रेस्तरां भी have a तोहफा दूकान कि बिकता facetious t-shirts featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood choices.
It is आधारित in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास.
नई यॉर्क नगर क्रूज लाइनर टर्मिनल in नरक 's Kitchen at 52nd Street.
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also known as the लक्ज़री लाइनर पंक्ति or मैनहटन क्रूज टर्मिनल or नई यॉर्क क्रूज टर्मिनल ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side.
The terminal consists of उत्तर नदी पियर 88, 90, 92 और 94 on the हडसन नदी between West 46th and West 54th Street.
( As a general rule, pier संख्याएँ in मैनहटन can be संकल्पित by adding 40 to the सम्बन्धित cross-street. )
Ships अभी डॉक at पियर 88, 90 and 92.
बांध 94 on the उत्तर पक्ष is अभी used for exhibition space.
Pier 86, once used by संयुक्त राज्य लाइनों, is अभी घर to the USS Intrepid.
In 2003, the टर्मिनल संभाला 900,000 passengers.
The नगर is forecasting कि 1.5 लाख होगा उपयोग the टर्मिनल by 2017.
the पियर हैं long and apart.
They were first समाप्त in 1935 to बदलें the चेल्सी पियर as the नगर 's लक्ज़री लाइनर terminal.
The new टर्मिनल थी निर्मित to हैंडल बडे जहाजों कि had outgrown the Chelsea Piers.
The piers were renovated in 1970 और हैं फिलहाल undergoing another $ 150 million renovation.
The संवर योजनाएँ कॉल लिये it to हैंडल तीन विशाल ships at a time.
In doing renovations, the नगर is भी considering decommissioning Pier 92.
Logo of the नई यॉर्क क्रूज terminal.for
decades the टर्मिनल थी the तभी ocean-going यात्री terminal in New York harbor.
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to handle comfortably only three large जहाजों at a समय, दो नई terminals have खोली in the हार्बर — the केप स्वतंत्रता क्रूज बंदरगाहों खोली in 2004 in bayonne, नई जर्सी ( प्रयुक्त by royal caribbean क्रूज लकीर, हस्ती क्रूज़ और azamara क्रूज़ ), और the ब्रुकलीन क्रूज टर्मिनल ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn, New York.
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to नीचे वेस्ट 42nd गली क्युकी जब the टर्मिनल थी निर्मित जमीन था to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers.
The US Army Corps of Engineers, जो कंट्रोल the waterfront आयाम, होता नहीं extend the pierhead लकीर दूर into the नदी, so the city extended the pier by cutting away at the land.
The city पहले किया इस लिये the चेल्सी पियर ; however in चेल्सी तभी landfill was taken away.
At the Passenger Terminal वास्तविक मैनहटन schist थी taken away.
From डाउनस्ट्रीम in the नदी
Many major passenger ships have docked there, including the RMS Queen Mary 2 and Freedom of the समंदर, पहले the ब्रुकलीन और bayonne terminals opened.
The SS Normandie caught fire and subsequently capsized at इसके बांध 88 berth दौरान संसार युद्ध II.
The Normandie, renamed uss lafayette, झूठ capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
नॉर्वेजियाई क्रूज लकीर 's जल्द to be नवीनतम जलयान the नॉर्वेजियाई breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal.
The city will spend $ 4 लाख to renovate और उन्नयन the क्रूज टर्मिनल to accommodate the ship.
This is an overview of the नियमित, पुनरावर्ती, और अन्य वर्ण of the TV series NCIS.
Christian right is a term प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त राज्य to describe right-wing ईसाई राजनैतिक समूह कि हैं characterized by उनके दमदार support of socially conservative policies.
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of christianity to राजनीती और पब्लिक नीति by proclaiming the मान of those शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking to उपयोग those शिक्षाओं to influence law and public policy.
In the U.S., the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a कोर of धर्मान्तरण protestants कि draws `` support इससे नीतियां रूढ़िवादी catholics, यहूदियों, mormons, और occasionally secularists '' who share their goals.
The movement has its roots in अमरीकी राजनीती going वापस as दूर the 1940s और रै महरूम विशेषकर influential since the 1970s.
उनके influence draws, in भाग, इससे grassroots सक्रियता as खूब as उनके फ़ोकस on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially रूढ़िवादी स्थितियाँ on मुद्दे सहित स्कूल दुआ, स्टेम कोशिका शोध, समलैंगिकता, निरोधक, गर्भपात, and pornography.
Although the Christian right is usually associated साथ the u.S., the गति रै महरूम a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर in the राजनीती of कनाडा, the नीदरलैंड्स, उत्तरी आयरलैंड और ऑस्ट्रेलिया, among अन्य.
Far East गति ( stylized as far★east गति or abbreviated fm ) is an अमरीकी hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles.
The समूह formed in 2003 और consists of kev nish ( केविन nishimura ), prohgress ( James Roh ), J-Splif ( Jae Choung ), and DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ).
Far East Movement 's first claim to fame was their song `` गोलाकार गोलाकार '' प्रदर्शित in the हॉलीवुड फिल्म, the तेज़ और the क्रोधित : टोकियो बहाव, और इसके subsequent soundtrack, video game and DVD.
Since `` Round Round '', the समूह रै महरूम प्रदर्शित on विभिन्न संजाल shows सहित,, अनुगामी, गपशप लड़की, और finishing the खेल ( a प्रदर्शित फिल्मी at sundance 2007 ).
Their single `` Like a G6 `` hit number one on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट और on itunes as खूब in लेट October 2010.
दूर ईस्ट गति भी रै the भेद of होने the पहला asian-american group to earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States.
LR44 is the IEC designation for an alkaline 1.5 वोल्ट बटन कोशिका, commonly प्रयुक्त in छोटी led flashlights, डिजिटल thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, clocks, toys and laser pointers.
lr44 क्षारीय cell
the बैटरी नामकरण is पारिभाषित by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्युततकनीकी आयोग ( आईईसी ) in इसके 60086-3 मानक ( Primary batteries, part 3 Watch batteries ).
The letter L indicates the electrochemical प्रणाली प्रयुक्त ; a जस्ता ऋणात्मक एलेक्ट्रोड, मैंगनीज डाइऑक्साइड depolarizer और धनात्मक एलेक्ट्रोड, and an alkaline electrolyte.
R44 indicates a गोलाकार कोशिका 11.4±0.2 mm व्यास और 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086.
Manufacturers have their अपना भाग संख्याएँ लिये आईईसी प्रकार lr44 बैटरी including:
lr44, lr44g, lr44gd, LR44H
LR1154, L1154, l1154c, l1154f, l1154g, L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 ( nsn )
1166a
AG13, a613, ag14, ag-14, G13A, G13-A
157, 303, 357
A76, GDA76, gp76a, gpa7, gpa75, gpa76, GPS76A,
1128mp, 208-904, a-76, ca18, ca19, cr44, d76a, ka, ka76, MS76H, PX76A, PX675A, RPX675, RW82, SB-F9, V13GA
4.5-volt, D, c, aa, aaa, aaaa, a23, 9-volt, cr2032 and LR44 batteries
Other प्रकार of बैटरी हैं or यहूद बना in the R44 size.
Formerly, mercury batteries were made as बटन कोशिकाएं ( प्रकार mr44 और nr44 ).
zinc-air बैटरी प्रकार pr44 आवश्यकता air to work.
Silver-oxide batteries type SR44 may provide extra capacity compared to lr44 प्रकार लकिन have थोड़ा अलग वोल्टेज characteristics.
प्रदर्शन of a यंत्र meant to उपयोग a silver-oxide बैटरी may be degraded with substitution of LR44 types.
Manufacturer 's numbers for चांदी ऑक्साइड r44 आकार कोशिकाएं include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( nsn )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 ( energizer )
303/357 ( D357H )
Hurricane Katrina was the deadliest and most destructive अटलांटिक hurricane of the 2005 अटलांटिक hurricane ऋतु.
It was the costliest natural disaster, as खूब as एक of the पाँच deadliest hurricanes, in the इतिहास of the United States.
Among recorded अटलांटिक hurricanes, it थी the छठे strongest overall.
At least 1,833 लोगों died in the hurricane और subsequent floods, बनाना it the deadliest u.S. hurricane चूंकि the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; कुल प्रॉपर्टी क्षति थी अनुमानित at $ 81 अरब ( 2005 usd ), nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on अगस्त 23, 2005 और crossed दक्षिणी फ्लोरिडा as a मॉडरेट श्रेणी 1 hurricane, causing कुछ मौतों और बाढ़ there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico.
The hurricane strengthened to a श्रेणी 5 hurricane over the गरम गल्फ जल, लकिन weakened पहले बनाना इसके दूसरी landfall as a श्रेणी 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, August 29 in southeast Louisiana.
It caused severe विनाश साथ the गल्फ coast इससे सेंट्रल फ्लोरिडा to टेक्सास, much of it due to the storm surge.
The most significant क्रमांक of मौतों occurred in नई ऑरलियन्स, louisiana, जिससे flooded as the तटबन्ध प्रणाली catastrophically failed, in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland.
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, और the floodwaters lingered लिये सप्ताह.
However, the worst property क्षति occurred in तटीय क्षेत्रों, ऐसे as सब मिसिसिपी beachfront कस्बों, जिससे यहूद flooded over 90 % in घंटों, as नौकाएँ और कसीनो barges rammed इमारतें, pushing गाड़ियाँ और घरों inland, with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach.
The hurricane surge सुरक्षा असफलताओं in नई ऑरलियन्स हैं माना the worst सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी विपत्ति in u.S. इतिहास और prompted a मुकदमा विरूद्ध the u.S. फौज corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965.
Responsibility for the असफलताओं और बाढ़ थी रखी squarely on the फौज corps in जनवरी 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood डुवल, u.S. ज़िला अदालत, लकिन the संघीय एजेंसी could नहीं be आयोजित financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928.
There was also an investigation of the प्रतिक्रियाएँ इससे संघीय, राज्य और लोकल सरकारें, resulting in the इस्तीफा of संघीय आपात प्रबन्धन एजेंसी ( fema ) निदेशक माइकल D. Brown, and of New Orleans Police Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass.
Several agencies सहित the संयुक्त राज्य coast गार्ड ( uscg ), नेशनल hurricane बीच ( nhc ), and National Weather Service ( NWS ) were commended for their actions.
They provided सटीक hurricane मौसम ट्रैकिंग forecasts with sufficient lead time.
Even the most insistent appeals from national, राज्य और लोकल पब्लिक officials to निवासियों to evacuate पहले the तूफ़ान किया नहीं warn कि the levees could breach and fail.
U.S. debt इससे 1940 to 2011.
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the पब्लिक '' और ब्लैक लाइनों indicate the कुल नेशनल कर्ज़ or gross public debt.
The अंतर is the `` intragovernmental कर्ज़, '' जिससे शामिल दायित्वों to government programs such as Social Security.
Stated as a formula, नेशनल कर्ज़ = कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक + intragovernmental Debt.
The second panel shows the दो कर्ज़ आंकड़े as a प्रतिशत of u.S. जीडीपी ( डालर मान of u.S. आर्थिक production for that year ).
The top panel is deflated so प्रत्येक साल is in 2010 dollars.
The United States public debt is the money उधार by the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य through the issuing of प्रतिभूति by the राजकोष और other federal government agencies.
US पब्लिक कर्ज़ consists of two components:
Debt आयोजित by the पब्लिक शामिल राजकोष प्रतिभूति आयोजित by निवेशकों बाहर the संघीय सरकारी, सहित that held by individuals, corporations, the Federal Reserve System and foreign, state and local governments.
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury प्रतिभूति आयोजित in खाते administered by the संघीय सरकारी कि हैं owed to कार्यक्रम beneficiaries, ऐसे as the सोशल सुरक्षा Trust Fund.
Debt held by government accounts represents the संचयी surpluses, सहित ब्याज आय, of ये खाते कि have महरूम invested in Treasury securities.
Public debt increases or decreases as a परिणाम of the सालाना एकीकृत बजट deficit or surplus.
The संघीय सरकारी बजट deficit or surplus is the अंतर between सरकारी रसीदें and spending, ignoring intra-governmental transfers.
However, some बिता कि is excluded इससे the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt.
Historically, the US public debt as a share of जीडीपी increased दौरान युद्धों और recessions, और subsequently declined.
For example, debt held by the public as a share of जीडीपी peaked बस बाद संसार युद्ध ii ( 113 % of जीडीपी in 1945 ), लकिन तब गिरी over the following 30 years.
In recent decades, however, large budget deficits and the resulting increases in कर्ज़ have led to चिंता परिचय the long-term स्थिरता of the संघीय government 's fiscal policies.
On 2 April 2013, कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक थी लगभग $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP.
Intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 खरब, giving a संयुक्त कुल public debt of $ 16.805 trillion.
As of January 2013, $ 5.6 trillion or लगभग 47 % of the कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक थी स्वामित्व by विदेशी निवेशकों, the largest of जिससे यहूद the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन और जापानी at बस over $ 1.1 trillion each.
In basketball, an assist is attributed to a player who passes the ball to a teammate in a रास्ता कि लीड to a स्कोर by फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य, अर्थ कि he or वो थी `` assisting '' in the basket.
There is some judgment involved in deciding whether a passer चाहिए be credited साथ an assist.
An assist can be scored लिये the passer भी if the खिलाड़ी जो receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball.
however, the असली परिभाषा of an assist किया नहीं शामिल ऐसे परिस्थितियों, so the comparison of assist statistics across eras is a complex matter.
Only the pass सीधे पहले the स्कोर may be गिने as an assist, so no अधिक than एक assist can be अंकित per field goal ( unlike in other sports, such as ice hockey ).
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does not count as an assist in the एनबीए, लकिन करता in fiba खेल ( तभी एक assist is awarded प्रति नियत of फ़्री throws in जिससे at तनिक एक फ़्री throw is बना ).
Point गार्ड tend to मिलेंगी the सबसे assists प्रति खेल ( apg ), as उनके भूमिका is primarily that of a passer and ballhandler.
Centers tend to get fewer assists, but centers साथ शुभ मंजिल उपस्थिति और अदालत दृष्टि can dominate a टोली by assisting.
Being inside the key, the बीच प्रायः रै the बेहतरीन कोण और the बेहतरीन स्थिति लिये `` dishes '' and other short passes in the scoring area.
Center Wilt चेम्बरलेन led the एनबीए in assists in 1968.
A strong बीच साथ inside-scoring prowess, ऐसे as पूर्व एनबीए बीच hakeem olajuwon, can भी be an प्रभावी assistor क्युकी the रक्षा 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters.
The एनबीए single-game assist रिकार्ड is 30, आयोजित by स्कॉट skiles of the ऑरलैंडो जादू विरूद्ध the Denver Nuggets, on December 30, 1990.
The NBA record for most करियर assists is आयोजित by जॉन Stockton with 15,806.
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the uk, जब discussing प्रॉपर्टी कर in the संयुक्त राज्य, or previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in accounting.
In the United States, it is a notional ईकाई समतुल्य to of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर ( a दसवाँ of a cent ).
in the संयुक्त किंगडम it थी प्रस्तावित दौरान the दशकों of चर्चा on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling.
अनेक अन्य मुद्राएँ प्रयुक्त the मिल, ऐसे as the Maltese lira.
The term comes इससे the लैटिन `` millesimum '', अर्थ `` thousandth part ''.
The Greco-Persian Wars ( भी प्रायः पुकारा the पारसी युद्धों ) यहूद a श्रेणी of विरोध between the हख़ामनी साम्राज्य of फारस और city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC.
The टक्कर between the fractious राजनैतिक संसार of the यूनानियों और the विशाल साम्राज्य of the फारसियों began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC.
struggling to नियम the independent-minded शहरों of ionia, the फारसियों appointed tyrants to rule each of them.
This would prove to be the source of much ट्रबल लिये the यूनानियों और फारसियों alike.
In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to जीतें the द्वीप of naxos, साथ पारसी support ; however, the expedition थी a क़हर और, pre-empting उसके dismissal, aristagoras incited सब of हैलेनिक एशिया नाबालिग into rebellion against the Persians.
This was the शुरूआत of the आयोनियन विद्रोह, जिससे होता पिछला जबतक 493 bc, progressively आरेखण अधिक regions of Asia Minor into the conflict.
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and eretria, और in 498 bc ये शक्तियां helped to कैप्चर और बर्न the पारसी क्षेत्रीय पूंजी of Sardis.
The पारसी किंग दारा the ग्रेट vowed to have बदला on Athens and Eretria for this act.
The revolt continued, with the two पहलू effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
in 494 bc, the फारसियों regrouped, और attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus.
at the बैटल of lade, the ionians suffered a निर्णायक शिकस्त, और the विद्रोह collapsed, साथ the फाइनल सदस्यों होने stamped out the following year.
Seeking to सुरक्षित उसके साम्राज्य इससे further revolts और इससे the हस्तक्षेप of the मेनलैंड यूनानियों, दारा embarked on a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis.
The first Persian आक्रमण of यूनानियों began in 492 bc, साथ the पारसी सामान्य mardonius conquering thrace और Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign.
In 490 BC a second force was sent to Greece, इस समय आरपार the ईजियन समुद्र, अंतर्गत the कमांड of datis and Artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the Cyclades, before besieging, capturing और razing eretria.
however, जबकि en रूट to आक्रमण एथेंस, the पारसी फ़ोर्स थी decisively पराजित by the athenians at the Battle of Marathon, ending Persian efforts for the time being.
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of यूनानियों, लकिन died in 486 bc और जिम्मेदारी लिये the conquest passed to उसके बेटे xerxes I.
In 480 BC, Xerxes personally led the second पारसी आक्रमण of यूनानियों साथ एक of the largest प्राचीन सेना कभी समवेत.
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by स्पार्टा और एथेंस ) at the बैटल of thermopylae अनुमत the फारसियों to torch Athens and overrun most of Greece.
however, जबकि seeking to नष्ट the संयुक्त यूनानी बेड़े, the फारसियों suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis.
The following year, the confederated Greeks went on the offensive, defeating the Persian फौज at the बैटल of plataea, और समाप्ति the आक्रमण of यूनानियों.
The allied यूनानियों followed up उनके कामयाबी by destroying the बाकी of the पारसी बेड़े at the बैटल of mycale, पहले expelling पारसी garrisons इससे sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The actions of the general pausanias at the घेरा of byzantium alienated अनेक of the यूनानी राज्य इससे the spartans, और the anti-persian गठबंधन थी इसलिए reconstituted around Athenian leadership, as the so-called Delian League.
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia for the next तीन दशकों, शुरूआत साथ the expulsion of the बाकी पारसी garrisons इससे Europe.
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC, the लीग जीती a दोगुना विजय कि आखिरकार secured स्वतंत्रता for the cities of Ionia.
However, the League 's involvement in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 bc ) resulted in a विनाशकारी शिकस्त, और further campaigning थी निलंबित.
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 BC, but हासिल छोटी, और जब it withdrew the greco-persian युद्धों खींचा to a quiet end.
Some historical sources suggest the समाप्त of hostilities थी चिह्नित by a सलाम सन्धि between एथेंस और फारस, the so-called सलाम of Callias.
Hooverville निकट पोर्टलैंड, ऑरेगॉन
A `` Hooverville '' is the popular name for shanty कस्बों निर्मित by बेघर लोगों दौरान the ग्रेट अवसाद.
They were named after Herbert Hoover, who was अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान the onset of the अवसाद और widely blamed for it.
The term थी coined by चार्ल्स माइकेल्सन, publicity मुख्य of the Democratic National Committee.
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born सितंबर 25, 1975 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ).
he थी drafted in the छठे गोलाकार of the 1998 NFL Draft by the Green Bay Packers.
बाद a ऋतु on the अभ्यास स्क्वाड and two seasons backing up Brett Favre, he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, and led Seattle to six playoff दिखावे और a सुपर कटोरी रूप ; he थी चयनित to तीन प्रो प्याले और an All-Pro selection.
Following ten seasons with the सीहॉक्स, hasselbeck joined the टेनेसी टाइटन्स in 2011.
Hasselbeck then signed a contract साथ the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस in 2013 कम than 24 घंटों बाद होने released by the Tennessee Titans.
आईसीटी is inevitably सम्बन्धित to the computer network.
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ), is often used as an extended synonym for information technology ( IT ), but is a more विशिष्ट पद कि तनावों the भूमिका of एकीकृत संचार और the संयोजन of दूरसंचार ( टेलीफोन लाइनों और बेतार सिग्नल ), कंप्यूटर as खूब as जरुरी एंटरप्राइज़ तन्त्र, middleware, storage, and audio-visual systems, which enable users to access, store, transmit, and manipulate information.
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s, लकिन it became लोकप्रिय बाद it थी प्रयुक्त in a रपट to the uk सरकारी by डेनिस stevenson in 1997 और in the संशोधित नेशनल curriculum for England, Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000.
The term आईसीटी is अभी भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the अभिसरण of audio-visual और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ कंप्यूटर संजाल through a single cabling or link system.
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual, भवन प्रबन्धन और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ the कंप्यूटर संजाल प्रणाली using a सिंगल एकीकृत प्रणाली of cabling, signal distribution and management.
The term Infocommunications is प्रयुक्त in कुछ मामले as a shorter रूप of सूचना और communication ( s ) technology.
In फैक्ट infocommunications is the विस्तार of दूरसंचार साथ सूचना प्रसंस्करण and content handling functions on a common digital technology base.
For a comparison of ये और अन्य शर्तें, देखिए.
For आईसीटी विकास अनुक्रमणिका around the world, see.
This is a सूची of वर्ण इससे जार्ज Lopez.
a schematic प्रस्तुतीकरण of the प्लम खीर मॉडल of the अणु ; in thomson 's गणितीय मॉडल the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly, in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic ढांचा involves a घना केंद्रक घिरी by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum खीर मॉडल of the अणु by J. J. thomson, जो खोजा the इलेक्ट्रॉन in 1897, थी प्रस्तावित in 1904 पहले the डिस्कवरी of the atomic nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model.
In this model, the अणु is रचित of electrons ( जिससे thomson स्टिल पुकारा `` corpuscles '', हालांकि G. J. stoney था प्रस्तावित कि अणु of विद्युत be पुकारा electrons in 1894 ) घिरी by a सूप of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges, like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding ``.
the electrons ( as we जान उन्हें आज ) यहूद विचार to be positioned throughout the अणु, लकिन साथ अनेक structures संभावित लिये positioning multiple electrons, particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ).
Instead of a soup, the atom was also sometimes कहा to have था a `` बादल '' of धनात्मक चार्ज.
साथ इस मॉडल, thomson abandoned उसके पहले `` nebular अणु '' hypothesis in which the atom was composed of immaterial vortices.
Now, at least part of the अणु थी to be रचित of thomson 's particulate ऋणात्मक corpuscles, हालांकि the बाकी of the positively charged part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 Thomson मॉडल थी disproved by the 1909 सुनहरा foil प्रयोग of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden.
This was interpreted by अर्नेस्ट रदरफोर्ड in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very high धनात्मक चार्ज ( in the मामला of सुनहरा, पर्याप्त to संतुलन परिचय 100 electrons ), thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom.
Although gold has an atomic number of 79, immediately after रदरफोर्ड 's पेपर appeared in 1911 antonius वैन डेन broek बना the सहज सुझाव कि atomic number is nuclear charge.
The पदार्थ जरूरी प्रयोग to decide.
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) कि the प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज थी बहुत बंद to the परमाणु क्रमांक ( moseley मिला तभी एक ईकाई अंतर ), और moseley संदर्भित तभी the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford.
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( लकिन quantum-limited ) bohr मॉडल of the अणु in the वही साल, in जिससे a केंद्रक containing an परमाणु क्रमांक of धनात्मक charge is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells.
bohr था भी प्रेरित moseley 's work.
Thomson 's model was compared ( हालांकि नहीं by thomson ) to a अंग्रेजों मिठाई पुकारा प्लम खीर, hence the name.
Thomson 's paper थी प्रकाशित in the कूच 1904 संस्करण of the philosophical पत्रिका, the अग्रणी British science journal of the day.
In Thomson 's view :... the atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a गोला of वर्दी धनात्मक विद्युतीकरण,...
In इस मॉडल, the electrons यहूद फ़्री to घूर्णन भीतर the blob or cloud of positive substance.
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the फैक्ट कि जब an इलेक्ट्रॉन स्थानांतरित दूर इससे the बीच of the धनात्मक बादल, it लगा a larger जाल धनात्मक inward फ़ोर्स, क्युकी वहीँ थी अधिक सामग्री of विपरीत charge, inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ).
in thomson 's मॉडल, electrons यहूद फ़्री to घूर्णन in बजती जिससे यहूद further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, and spectra were to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits.
Thomson attempted to make उसके मॉडल खाता लिये कुछ of the प्रमुख spectral लाइनों ज्ञात लिये some elements, but was not notably successful at this.
Still, Thomson 's model ( along साथ a समान saturnian रिंग मॉडल लिये परमाणु electrons, भी put आगे in 1904 by nagaoka बाद जेम्स क्लर्क मैक्सवेल 's मॉडल of शनि 's बजती ), यहूद पहले harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom.
ठेठ स्ट्रिप of बेकन.
बेकन is a cured मांस prepared from a pig.
It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a शुष्क पैकिंग ; the परिणाम is भैस bacon ( also known as green bacon ).
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or महीने in ठंडा एयर, or it may be boiled or स्मोक्ड.
Fresh and सूखी बेकन is typically पकाया before eating.
boiled बेकन is तैयार to खा, as is कुछ स्मोक्ड bacon, but may be cooked further before eating.
Bacon is prepared इससे अनेक अलग कटौती of meat.
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork, except in the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ it is लगभग सदा prepared इससे पोर्क पेट ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` वसीय '', or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ).
the पक्ष काटें रै अधिक meat and less fat than the belly.
बेकन may be prepared इससे either of दो पृथक वापस कटौती : fatback, जिससे is almost pure fat, and pork loin, which is very lean.
bacon-cured पोर्क loin is ज्ञात as back bacon.
uncooked पोर्क पेट बेकन स्ट्रिप्स.
Bacon may be eaten स्मोक्ड, boiled, fried, baked, or ग्रील्ड, or प्रयुक्त as a नाबालिग संघटक to flavor dishes.
Bacon is also used लिये barding और larding roasts, विशेषकर game, e.g. venison, pheasant.
The word is derived from the बूढ़ा ऊँची जर्मनी bacho, अर्थ `` buttock '', `` हैम '' or `` पक्ष of बेकन '', and cognate with the Old French bacon.
In continental Europe, this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the United States ; it is प्रयुक्त primarily in घन ( lardons ) as a कुकिंग संघटक, valued दोनो as a सोर्स of मोटे और लिये इसके flavor.
In Italy, इस is पुकारा pancetta और is प्रायः पकाया in छोटी घन or परोसा uncooked और thinly sliced as part of an antipasto.
Meat from other animals, such as beef, lamb, chicken, goat, or turkey, may भी be काटें, cured, or वरना prepared to resemble बेकन, और may भी be referred to as `` bacon ''.
Such उपयोग is आम in क्षेत्रों साथ significant Jewish and Muslim populations.
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass '' ; अन्य कटौती और विशेषताएँ जरूर be separately योग्य ( e.g., `` स्मोक्ड pork loin bacon '' ).
For safety, bacon must be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by Trichinella, a parasitic roundworm जिससे can be नष्ट by हीटिंग, जमने, drying, or smoking.
Bacon is विशिष्ट इससे नमक पोर्क और हैम by differences in the brine ( or dry packing ).
Bacon brine has added curing संघटक, सबसे notably सोडियम नाइट्राइट, और occasionally सोडियम नाइट्रेट or पोटैशियम नाइट्रेट ( साल्टपीटर ) ; सोडियम ascorbate or erythorbate हैं added to accelerate curing and stabilize color.
Flavorings such as भूरा शुगर or मेपल हैं प्रयुक्त लिये some products.
If used, sodium polyphosphates हैं added to improve sliceability और reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried.
Today, a brine for ham, but नहीं बेकन, शामिल a विशाल राशि of sugar.
Historically, `` हैम '' और `` बेकन '' referred to अलग कटौती of मांस कि यहूद brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel.
the कर्मचारी रिटायरमेंट आय सुरक्षा अधिनियम of 1974 ( erisa ) (, संहिताबद्ध in भाग at ) is a संघीय विधि जिससे establishes न्यूनतम मानकों लिये पेंशन योजनाएँ in निजी उद्योग और provides for extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans.
ERISA थी enacted to protect the रूचि of कर्मचारी लाभ योजना भागीदार and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial and other सूचना concerning the योजना to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of conduct लिये योजना fiduciaries ;
Providing for उचित remedies और अभिगम to the संघीय courts.
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full देह of कानून regulating कर्मचारी लाभ योजनाएँ, जिससे हैं मिला मुख्यतः in the आतंरिक Revenue Code and ERISA itself.
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department of Labor, the Department of the राजकोष ( विशेषकर the आतंरिक आय सेवा ), और the पेंशन लाभ guaranty निगम.
Illegal immigration to the संयुक्त राज्य is the अधिनियम of विदेशी नागरिकों प्रवेश the संयुक्त राज्य, बगैर सरकारी अनुमति और in उल्लंघन of संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रीयता विधि, or रहकर परे the termination date of a visa, also in violation of the law.
A warning sign at the international boundary between the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा in पाइंट रॉबर्ट्स, वॉशिंगटन.
A much different approach at the u.s.-mexico किनारा निकट el पासो, Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the बीच लिये आव्रजन अध्ययन to be परिचय 11 लाख लोगों, bas इससे 12.5 लाख people in 2007.
अन्य estimates दायरा इससे 7 to 20 million.
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center report, 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % यहूद इससे अन्य लैटिन अमरीकी देशों ; 13 % यहूद इससे एशिया ; 6 % यहूद इससे यूरोपीय और कनाडा ; और 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent स्कूल ज़िला is a स्कूल ज़िला आधारित in Alvin, Texas ( USA ).
Alvin ISD is a large suburban school district south of Houston in the समुदायों of एल्विन, manvel, pearland, hillcrest, rosharon, आयोवा उपनिवेश, Liverpool, and Amsterdam.
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing पश्चिमी portion of the नगर सहित the नई विशाल master-planned समुदायों of छाया क्रीक ranch, दक्षिण कांटा, and Southern Trails.
Alvin isd कवर of जमीन.
In human anatomy, the ulnar तंत्रिका is a तंत्रिका जिससे रनों निकट the ulna bone.
the ulnar collateral स्नायु of कोहनी joint is in relation with the ulnar nerve.
The nerve is the largest unprotected तंत्रिका in the इंसान देह ( अर्थ unprotected by मांसपेशी or bone ), so injury is common.
This nerve is directly connected to the छोटी उंगली, और the सटा हाफ of the रिंग उंगली, supplying the palmar पक्ष of ये उंगलियाँ, सहित दोनो सामने और वापस of the नुस्ख़े, perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds.
One विधि of injuring the तंत्रिका is to स्ट्राइक the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly, or inferiorly with the elbow flexed.
The ulnar nerve is फंस between the अस्थि और the overlying skin at this point.
This is commonly referred to as bumping एक 's `` funny bone ''.
This name is thought to be a pun, based on the ध्वनि प्रतिरूप between the नाम of the अस्थि of the अपर भुजा, the `` humerus `` और the word `` humorous ``.
Alternatively, according to the Oxford English Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar सनसनी अनुभवी जब it is struck ''.
हॉग्वार्ट्स स्कूल of चुड़ैल और wizardry, shortened हॉग्वार्ट्स, is a fictional अंग्रेजों स्कूल of जादू लिये विद्यार्थी aged ग्यारह to अठारह, and is the primary setting for the first six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
Rowling has suggested that वो may have inadvertently लिया the नाम इससे the hogwort संयंत्र ( croton capitatus ), जिससे वो था देखी at kew gardens कुछ समय पहले लिखने the श्रेणी, हालांकि the names `` the हॉग्वार्ट्स '' और `` hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th बेहतरीन स्कॉटिश शैक्षणिक स्थापना in a 2008 online ranking, outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School.
According to a director of the Independent Schools Network Rankings, it was added to the स्कूलों लिस्टिंग `` लिये मजा '' और थी तब voted on.
The U.S. subprime बंधक संकट थी a नियत of कार्यक्रम और शर्तें कि led to a वित्तीय संकट और subsequent recession that began in 2008.
It was characterized by a rise in subprime बंधक delinquencies और foreclosures, और the resulting मनाही of प्रतिभूति backed by said mortgages.
Several major financial institutions collapsed in सितंबर 2008, साथ significant disruption in the प्रवाह of क्रेडिट to व्यवसायों और consumers and the onset of a severe global recession.
There were many causes of the crisis, with commentators assigning different स्तर of दोष to वित्तीय संस्थानों, regulators, क्रेडिट एजेंसियों, सरकारी आवास नीतियों, और उपभोक्ता, among others.
A proximate कारण थी the वृद्धि in subprime lending.
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated दौरान a दिए साल रोज़ इससे the ऐतिहासिक 8 % or निम्नतर दायरा to लगभग 20 % from 2004 to 2006, with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S.
A high percentage of these subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 लिये उदाहरण, यहूद adjustable-rate mortgages.
These two परिवर्तन यहूद भाग of a broader ट्रेंड of lowered lending मानकों और higher-risk mortgage products.
Further, U.S. households था become increasingly ऋणी, साथ the अनुपात of कर्ज़ to डिस्पोजेबल निजी आय उठती इससे 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When U.S. home कीमतें अस्वीकृत steeply बाद peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' क्षमता to पुनर्वित्त their loans became more difficult.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to रीसेट at उच्चतर ब्याज दरों ( causing उच्चतर मासिक भुगतान ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, सहित subprime mortgages, widely आयोजित by वित्तीय firms globally, खोया most of their value.
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed debt and other securities as भाग of a मनाही in the क्षमता और willingness of the निजी वित्तीय प्रणाली to support lending.
Concerns about the soundness of U.S. credit and financial markets led to tightening क्रेडिट around the संसार और slowing आर्थिक विकास in the U.S. and Europe.
the संकट था कठोर, long-lasting consequences for the U.S. and European economies.
The U.S. entered a deep recession, साथ nearly 9 लाख कार्य खोया दौरान 2008 और 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. housing कीमतें गिरी nearly 30 % on औसत और the u.S. भण्डार मार्केट गिरी लगभग 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the U.S. भण्डार मार्केट था बरामद to इसके pre-crisis शिखर लकिन आवास कीमतें remained निकट उनके कम पाइंट and unemployment remained elevated.
Economic growth remained नीचे pre-crisis स्तर.
Europe also जारी to संघर्ष साथ इसके अपना आर्थिक crisis.
कार्ल जंग in 1910.
Myers and Briggs extrapolated उनके mbti सिद्धान्त इससे जंग 's कृतियाँ in उसके किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक Types.
the myers-briggs प्रकार indicator ( mbti ) मूल्यांकन is a psychometric प्रश्नावली designed to माप मनोवैज्ञानिक preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions.
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by कार्ल गुस्ताव जंग और पहला प्रकाशित in उसके 1921 किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रकार ( अंग्रेज़ी संस्करण, 1923 ).
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological functions by जिससे we अनुभव the संसार : सनसनी, अंतर्ज्ञान, अहसास, और सोच.
One of ये चार कृत्यों is प्रबल सबसे of the time.
The original developers of the व्यक्तित्व inventory यहूद katharine कुक briggs और उसके बेटी, इसाबेल briggs मायर्स ; ये दो, having पढ़ाई extensively the कार्य of जंग, turned their interest of human behavior into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use.
They began creating the indicator दौरान संसार युद्ध ii, believing कि a ज्ञान of व्यक्तित्व वरीयताओं होता सहायता महिलाओं जो यहूद प्रवेश the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective ''.
The initial questionnaire grew into the Myers-Briggs प्रकार indicator, जिससे थी पहला प्रकाशित in 1962.
The MBTI focuses on सामान्य populations और emphasizes the मान of naturally occurring differences.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have विशिष्ट वरीयताओं in the रास्ता we construe हमारी अनुभवों, और ये वरीयताओं underlie हमारी रूचि, needs, मान, और प्रेरणा '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording कलाकार महिला गागा, इससे उसके दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम born इस रास्ता ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope Records on April 15, 2011, चार दिनों ahead of इसके अनुसूचित release.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a नृत्य और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस सोंग परिचय a स्त्री in प्रेम साथ a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted गागा in the पास्ट, और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the ऋणात्मक भाग of उसके जीवन कि वो ca n't escape.
Gaga has further explained that the song was also परिचय honoring एक 's भीतरी अंधेरा in अनुक्रम to लाओ oneself into the लाइट.
the कलाकृति लिये the सिंगल थी designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing प्रभाव on अनेक धार्मिक समूह, the सोंग थी generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों, जो likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous redone-produced ट्रैक्स, सहित `` पोकर फेस ``, `` lovegame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains तीन पृथक hooks और a हाउस -influenced break down.
Gaga समझाया कि the लाइनों बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे मोचन, regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be.
`` यहूदा '' initially था a दमदार बिक्री खोलने, लकिन थी less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the चार्ट in सबसे प्रमुख म्यूज़िक बाज़ार, और भी पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the charts in South Korea.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by गागा और laurieann गिब्सन और co-starring Norman Reedus.
it रै a biblical कथानक जहाँ reedus निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट and Gaga played Mary Magdalene.
The वीडियो portrays उन्हें as आधुनिक day missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It included the biblical स्टोरी of यहूदा betraying यीशु, और ended साथ Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its रिलीज, the कैथोलिक लीग condemned गागा लिये the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery and her role in the video.
However, critics generally praised the वीडियो, नहीं ढूंढना any offensive content.
The video was मनोनीत लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 एमटीवी Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` यहूदा '' on a क्रमांक of टेलीविज़न shows, सहित the ग्राहम नॉर्टन दिखाएँ, शनिवार रात्रि सजीव, शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born मारविन pentz gay, jr., थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम कुएं और tammi terrell, बाद कमाई the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस of motown '' और `` प्रिंस of आत्मा ''.
During the 1970s, gaye अंकित the अवधारणा एल्बम कया 's going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the पहला कलाकारों in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's later recordings बहकावे अनेक r & b subgenres ऐसे as शांत तूफ़ान और neo-soul.
Following a period in Europe अंतर्गत a कर निर्वासन in the जल्दी 1980s, gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has महरूम मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों, सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the अकादमी of गति चित्र कला और sciences ( ampas ) to निर्माता working in the गति चित्र उद्योग और is the तभी category in which every member is eligible to nominate for.
बेहतरीन चित्र is माना the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण of the अकादमी पुरस्कार, as it represents सब the directing, acting, music composing, writing, editing and other efforts put forth into a film.
Consequently, बेहतरीन चित्र is the फाइनल पुरस्कार और the निष्कर्ष of the सालाना Academy Awards ceremony.
The ग्रैंड staircase कालम at the dolby थिएटर in लॉस एंजिल्स, जहाँ the अकादमी पुरस्कार ceremonies have महरूम आयोजित चूंकि 2002, showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago.
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure वीडियो खेल निर्मित by फ्रेंच डेवलपर quantic सपना exclusively लिये the प्लेस्टेशन 3.
The game is written and निर्देशित by quantic सपना 's संस्थापक and CEO David Cage.
Heavy Rains story is a नाटकीय थ्रिलर modelled बाद फिल्मी noir, featuring चार protagonists शामिल साथ the रहस्य of the origami कातिल, a सीरियल killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims.
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next शिकार, जबकि investigative पत्रकार मैडिसन paige, एफबीआई profiler नॉर्मन jayden, और निजी detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity.
The player interacts साथ the खेल by performing क्रियाएँ highlighted on स्क्रीन सम्बन्धित to motions on the controller, and in some cases, performing a series of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences.
The player 's निर्णय और क्रियाएँ दौरान the खेल will affect the narrative.
The main characters can be मारे, और निश्चित क्रियाएँ may सीसे to अलग दृश्यों और endings.
A playable demo थी released on 11 फ़रवरी 2010.
The demo was released prior to this तिथि लिये लोगों जो took भाग in a चार दिन चुनौती on 5 February 2010.
A patch to allow use of the प्लेस्टेशन मूव नियंत्रक to खेल the खेल थी released in September 2010.
Heavy Rain was critically acclaimed और रै बेची over दो लाख नक़ल.
It won 2010 's Game of the साल इससे सीएनएन और गेमिंग संघ, और बेहतरीन ps3 खेल of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN.
A modified version of the game was released titled भारी बरसात संस्करण modifiée exclusively in फ़्रांस, aimed towards a younger audience.
in 2010, the खेल थी शामिल in the किताब 1001 वीडियो Games You Must Play Before You Die.
Total superannuation उद्योग देनदारी : सदस्यों निधि and reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988.
सालाना कुल superannuation उद्योग एसेट growth 1996-2005.
Superannuation in Australia refers to the इंतजाम जिससे लोगों मेक in ऑस्ट्रेलिया to have निधि उपलब्धियाँ for them in retirement.
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया, superannuation इंतजाम हैं government-supported and encouraged, and minimum provisions are compulsory for employees.
For example, employers are required to pay a proportion of an कर्मचारी 's salaries और मजदूरी ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation निधि, लकिन लोगों are encouraged to put aside additional funds into superannuation.
The minimum obligation जरूरी by नियोक्ता is नियत to बढ़ाएँ to 12 % धीरे stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the शर्तें of रिलीज contained in अनुसूची 1 of the superannuation उद्योग ( पर्यवेक्षण ) regulations 1994.
This is a list of the वर्ण इससे the अमरीकी comedy-drama टेलीविज़न series The Game.
Electoral College map showing the results of the 2012 u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the popular vote in 26 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया ( denoted in ब्लू ) to कैप्चर 332 चुनावी votes.
Former Governor Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) जीती the लोकप्रिय vote in 24 राज्य ( denoted in रेड ) to कैप्चर 206 चुनावी मत.
Cartogram प्रतिनिधित्व of the चुनावी कॉलेज vote लिये the 2012 चुनाव, साथ प्रत्येक वर्गाकार representing one electoral vote.
The United States Electoral College is the संस्था कि officially elects the अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States every four years.
The President और वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं नहीं निर्वाचित सीधे by the voters.
बजाय, वे हैं निर्वाचित by `` निर्वाचक '' जो हैं chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state basis.
Electors हैं apportioned to प्रत्येक राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, लकिन नहीं to territorial possessions of the United States, such as Puerto Rico and Guam.
The number of electors in प्रत्येक राज्य is बराबर to the क्रमांक of सदस्यों of कॉंग्रेस to जिससे the राज्य is हकदार.
The Twenty-third amendment रै सदा resulted in the ज़िला of Columbia having three electors.
There are 538 निर्वाचक, आधारित on वहीँ होने 435 प्रतिनिधि और 100 senators, plus the three electors from the District of Columbia.
Electors are pledged to particular अध्यक्षीय और वाइस अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार, हालांकि unpledged electors are possible.
In all states, except Maine और नेब्रास्का, निर्वाचक हैं निर्वाचित on a `` winner-take-all '' आधार.
That is, सब निर्वाचक pledged to the अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी जो विन्स the सबसे मत in a state become electors for that state.
maine और नेब्रास्का उपयोग the `` congressional ज़िला विधि '', selecting एक elector भीतर प्रत्येक congressional district by popular vote and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote.
Although no elector is जरूरी by संघीय विधि to सम्मान a प्रतिज्ञा, वहीँ have तभी been very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge.
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice अध्यक्ष हैं निर्वाचित और requires प्रत्येक elector to डाल एक vote लिये अध्यक्ष और another vote for Vice President.
Critics argue that the चुनावी कॉलेज is inherently undemocratic और देता झूले राज्य अनुपातहीन influence in electing the अध्यक्ष and Vice President.
The Electoral कॉलेज देता a न्यूमेरिक लाभ in the चुनाव of the अध्यक्ष to the छोटी राज्य, as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्वाचक लिये the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives.
On the other hand, the winner-take-all विधि of मतदान favors the larger states.
A number of constitutional amendments have been प्रस्तावित seeking to alter the चुनावी कॉलेज or बदलें it साथ a direct popular vote.
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4, 1961 ) is the 44th and वर्तमान अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to थाम the office.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a ग्रैजुएट of कोलंबिया विश्वविद्यालयों और हार्वर्ड विधि स्कूल, जहाँ he थी अध्यक्ष of the Harvard Law Review.
He was a जातियाँ आयोजक in शिकागो पहले कमाई उसके विधि उपाधि.
He worked as a civil rights attorney in शिकागो और सिखाया संवैधानिक विधि at the विश्वविद्यालयों of शिकागो Law School from 1992 to 2004.
He served three terms representing the 13th ज़िला in the इलिनोइस सीनेट इससे 1997 to 2004, कार्यशील unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives in 2000.
In 2004, Obama received national ध्यान दौरान उसके अभियान to represent इलिनोइस in the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट साथ उसके विजय in the कूच लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी प्राथमिक, उसके keynote पता at the Democratic National Convention in July, and his election to the Senate in November.
He began his presidential campaign in 2007, and in 2008, बाद a बंद प्राथमिक अभियान विरूद्ध हिलेरी rodham क्लिंटन, he जीती sufficient delegates in the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी primaries to प्राप्त the presidential nomination.
He then पराजित रिपब्लिकन nominee जॉन मैक्केन in the सामान्य चुनाव, और थी inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009.
Nine महीने बाद, ओबामा थी नामित the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected president in November 2012, defeating Republican nominee Mitt romney, और थी sworn in लिये a दूसरी पद on जनवरी 20, 2013.
Early in his first term in office, Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great मंदी in the रूप of the अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 और the कर राहत, बेरोजगारी बीमे reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency शामिल the रोगी सुरक्षा और सस्ती परवाह अधिनियम, प्रायः referred to as `` obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank वॉल गली सुधार और उपभोक्ता Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.
In may 2012, he became the पहला बैठे u.S. अध्यक्ष to सरेआम support same-sex विवाह और in 2013 उसके प्रशासन दायर briefs जिससे urged the परम् अदालत to नियम in एहसान of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases.
In foreign policy, Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop स्तर in अफगानिस्तान, हस्ताक्षरित the नई प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ रूस, ordered u.S. सैन्य भागीदारी in लीबिया, और ordered the सैन्य आपरेशन कि resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.
The Honda CBR1100XX Super Blackbird was a होंडा मोटरसाइकिल बना इससे 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to चुनौती the कावासाकी निंजा zx-11 as the संसार 's तीव्रतम उत्पादन motorcycle, and Honda succeeded with a top speed of.
Two years later the title passed to the suzuki hayabusa, जिससे पहुँचे.
the blackbird is नामित बाद the लॉकहीड SR-71, also a speed record holder.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड आधारित on images
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving अवधारणा पारिभाषित as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य information about individual patients or populations.
It is a record in digital स्वरूप कि is theoretically सक्षम of होने साझा आरपार अलग स्वास्थ्य परवाह settings.
In some मामले इस sharing can occur by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization औकात, प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण परिणाम, radiology बिंब, vital लक्षण, निजी आंकड़े जैसे आयु और वज़न, और बिलिंग सूचना.
The मेरिनर up on the mast in a storm.
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave Doré.
The Rime of the प्राचीन मेरिनर ( originally the rime of the ancyent marinere ) is the longest प्रमुख कविता by the अंग्रेज़ी कवि सैमुएल टेलर कॉलरिज, लिखा in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads.
Modern संस्करण उपयोग a बाद संशोधित संस्करण मुद्रित in 1817 that featured a gloss.
Along with other poems in गीतात्मक ballads, it थी a सिग्नल शिफ़्ट to आधुनिक काव्य और the शुरूआत of अंग्रेजों रोमांटिक literature.
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines how web browsers और अन्य उपयोक्ता एजेंटों can automatically चुनें the उचित proxy server ( access method ) for fetching a given URL.
A PAC file contains a जावास्क्रिप्ट फलन “findproxyforurl ( url, host ) ”.
This function returns a स्ट्रिंग साथ एक or अधिक अभिगम विधि विशेषताएँ.
These विशेषताएँ कारण the उपयोक्ता एजेंट to उपयोग a particular proxy server or to connect directly.
Multiple विशेषताएँ provide a fall-back जब a proxy fails to respond.
The ब्राउजर fetches इस pac संचिका before requesting other URLs.
The URL of the PAC file is either configured manually or संकल्पित automatically by the वेब प्रॉक्सी autodiscovery प्रोटोकॉल.
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as zendaya, is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, सिंगर and dancer.
she stars on the Disney Channel sitcom शेक it Up as Rocky Blue.
She has starred in दो films और निभाई एक of the सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the film Frenemies as Halley Brandon.
She voiced फर्न in the pixie खोखला Games.
She appeared in Good Luck Charlie as रॉकी ब्लू और in a शुभ लक चार्ली और शेक it up क्रॉसओवर शीर्षक चार्ली शेक It Up.
She appeared on prankstars as herself in the एपीसोड `` चलना the शरारत '' और on a.n.t. फार्म as sequoia जोन्स in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT. ''
zendaya is भी a musician.
She signed a deal with Hollywood Records on August 8, 2012 और प्रारंभ रिकॉर्डिंग गीतों लिये उसके डेब्यू album on August 12, 2012.
She released a single from an independent label called `` Swag It Out `` and another सिंगल साथ बेला thorne पुकारा `` देखें me, '' जिससे is प्रदर्शित on the ब्रेक it bas album.
On March 20, 2012, Zendaya and Bella thorne released an एल्बम साथ पुकारा शेक it up : सजीव 2 नृत्य, प्रत्येक have उनके अपना सोंग on it, साथ साथ a mash-up of both songs together as one.
On August 21, 2012, Zendaya and बेला thorne released an ep पुकारा शेक it up : बना In Japan.
zendaya रै a क्रिसमस सोंग पुकारा `` शेक सांता शेक, '' जिससे is on the डिज़्नी चैनल अवकाश Playlist CD, which was released on October 2, 2012.
On March 5, 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was released, entitled i < 3 नृत्य ; on it, zendaya रै दो गीतों साथ बेला - `` संक्रामक प्रेम '' और `` इस is my नृत्य मंजिल '' - as खूब as एक सोलो सोंग, `` ताल of my Drum. ''
This is a list of airports in पेन्सिलवेनिया ( a u.S. राज्य ), grouped by प्रकार और sorted by location.
It contains सब public-use और सैन्य airports in the state.
Some private-use and former airports may be शामिल जहाँ notable, ऐसे as एयरपोर्ट कि यहूद previously public-use, those साथ वाणिज्यिक enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code.
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and वितरित by ठहराना inc. originally released in 2007 लिये the iphone और ipod टच प्लेटफ़ॉर्म, it रै महरूम विस्तारित to support अन्य ठहराना डिवाइस such as the iPad and Apple TV.
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows Phone और google 's एंड्रॉइड, ठहराना करता नहीं अनुज्ञा आईओएस लिये संस्थापना on non-apple hardware.
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000 iOS अनुप्रयोग, जिससे have collectively महरूम डाउनलोड अधिक than 30 billion times.
It had a 21 % share of the स्मार्टफोन मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली इकाई shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012, behind only Google 's Android.
In June 2012, it accounted लिये 65 % of मोबाईल वेब आंकड़ा खपत ( सहित उपयोग on both the iPod Touch and the iPad ).
At the हाफ of 2012, वहीँ यहूद 410 लाख devices activated.
According to the special media event held by Apple on सितंबर 12, 2012, 400 लाख डिवाइस have महरूम बेची through June 2012.
The user interface of iOS is based on the अवधारणा of सीधा हेरफेर, using multi-touch gestures.
Interface control तत्व consist of sliders, switches, और बटन.
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe, tap, pinch, and reverse पिंच, सब of जिससे have विशिष्ट परिभाषाएं भीतर the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली और इसके multi-touch interface.
Internal accelerometers हैं प्रयुक्त by कुछ अनुप्रयोग to respond to shaking the यंत्र ( एक आम परिणाम is the undo कमांड ) or घूर्णन it in तीन आयाम ( एक common result is switching from portrait to landscape mode ).
iOS is निकला इससे os x, साथ जिससे it साझा the डार्विन foundation.
आईओएस is ठहराना 's मोबाईल संस्करण of the os x ऑपरेटिंग system used on Apple computers.
In iOS, there are four abstraction layers : the कोर os परत, the कोर सेवाएं परत, the मीडिया परत, and the Cocoa Touch layer.
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 gb of the यंत्र 's फ्लैश मेमोरी लिये the प्रणाली partition, using roughly 800 MB of that partition ( varying by model ) for iOS itself.
iOS currently रनों on iphone, ipad, iPod touch and Apple TV.
The plymouth superbird is प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके अत्यधिक high rear wing.
1987 Audi Sport quattros1 साथ इसके विशाल विंग्स at pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic device whose intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air गति आरपार a देह of a गाडी in गति, प्रायः वर्णित as turbulence or drag.
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams, because in addition to directing air flow they also reduce the राशि of एयर बहती underneath the गाडी जिससे generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag.
Spoilers are प्रायः fitted to रेस और high-performance खेल गाड़ियाँ, हालांकि वे have become common on passenger vehicles as well.
Some spoilers are added to गाड़ियाँ primarily लिये स्टाइलिंग उद्देश्य और have either छोटी aerodynamic लाभ or भी make the aerodynamics worse.
Spoilers लिये गाड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः incorrectly उलझन साथ, or the term used interchangeably with, wings.
Automotive wings are डिवाइस जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन is to generate downforce as एयर गुजरता around उन्हें, नहीं बस disrupt existing airflow patterns.
Mario, who serves as निन्टेंडो 's शुभंकर, is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित by खेल designer Shigeru Miyamoto and voiced by Charles Martinet.
This is a list of video games where the अक्षर मारियो plays a भाग, either as the समर्थक, विपक्षी, supporting अक्षर, as भाग of an ensemble डाल, as a कैमियो, or in a game within a game.
It does not include सरल सन्दर्भ to the अक्षर, ऐसे as the portraits of मारियो मिला in The Legend of Zelda : A Link to the Past.
The year indicated is the year the game was first released, सबसे commonly in जापानी ; खेल यहूद sometimes released सालो later in other regions of the world.
The list includes पोर्ट, remakes और compilations.
It does n't शामिल कोई आभासी कंसोल re-releases.
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` i am a man of निरंतर विषाद '' ) is a परंपरागत अमरीकी लोक सोंग पहला अंकित by लंड burnett, a partially अँधा fiddler from Kentucky.
The song was originally recorded by burnett as `` विदाई सोंग '' मुद्रित in a रिचर्ड burnett songbook, circa 1913.
An जल्दी संस्करण थी अंकित by emry आर्थर in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public interest in the सोंग थी नवीनीकृत बाद the रिलीज of the 2000 फिल्मी o bhai, Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a सेंट्रल भूमिका in the फिल्मी 's plot.
The song was also शामिल in the फिल्मी 's अत्यधिक कामयाब, multiple-platinum selling साउंडट्रैक.
Josephson जंक्शन सरणी चिप विकसित by the नेशनल Bureau of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI निकला ईकाई लिये इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित ( वोल्टेज ), इलेक्ट्रिक potential difference, and electromotive force.
The volt is नामित in सम्मान of the इतालवी physicist alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ), who invented the voltaic pile, possibly the first chemical battery.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo हत्या और कदम of gavrilo princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987, पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992 और प्लैक बदला इससे cyrillic to लैटिन script )
A plaque commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो हत्या ( चित्र लिया in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of hohenberg, यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by gavrilo princip, एक of a समूह of छह बोस्नियाई serb हत्यारे समन्वित by डेनियल Ilić.
The political objective of the हत्या थी to ब्रेक बंद austria-hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the गति कि बाद became ज्ञात as यंग Bosnia.
Serbian सैन्य अधिकारियों stood पीछे the attack.
At the top of ये सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों थी मुख्य of सर्बियाई सैन्य प्रज्ञा dragutin dimitrijević, उसके righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the assassins साथ बम और pistols और प्रशिक्षित उन्हें.
The assassins were given access to the वही clandestine टनल of safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ of हथियार और operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the कुंजी सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों जो यहूद स्टिल जिंदा यहूद गिरफ्तार, आजमाया, convicted and punished.
Those जो यहूद गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914.
The अन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों यहूद गिरफ्तार और आजमाया पहले a सर्बियाई कंगारू अदालत on the french-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations आता इससे these two trials and related records.
कार्यभार of जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing और हत्याएं of 28 जून is अत्यधिक विवादास्पद क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of World War I one month later.
मिशन सैन जुआन capistrano थी a स्पेनी मिशन in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, स्तिथ in present-day San Juan Capistrano.
it थी संस्थापित on सब संतो ' दिन नवम्बर 1, 1776, by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order.
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano, a 15th century theologian और `` योद्धा पुजारी '' जो resided in the abruzzo प्रदेश of इटली, सैन जुआन capistrano रै the भेद of होने घर to the oldest भवन in कैलिफ़ोर्निया स्टिल in उपयोग, a चैपल built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` सेरा 's चैपल '' और `` पिता सेरा 's गिरिजाघर, '' it is the तभी extant ढांचा जहाँ it रै महरूम documented that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass.
One of the best known of the Alta California missions ( and one of the few missions to have दरअसल महरूम संस्थापित twice—others होने मिशन सैन जिबरील arcángel और मिशन la purísima concepción ).
The साईट थी originally consecrated on अक्तूबर 30, 1775, by पिता fermín Lasuén, but was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego.
The success of the settlement is evident in इसके ऐतिहासिक रिकॉर्ड.
Prior to the आगमन of the प्रचारकों, कुछ 550 natives यहूद बिखरे throughout the local area.
By 1790, the क्रमांक of परिवर्तित ईसाइयों था grown to 700, और बस छह सालो बाद nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( हाल converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted कि साल अलोन, आउट of the कुल 4,639 souls परिवर्तित between 1776 and 1847.
More than 2,000 पूर्व निवासियों ( ज़्यादातर juaneño इंडियंस ) हैं दफ्न in unmarked क़ब्रों in the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ).
The remains of पिता ( बाद monsignor ) st. जॉन o'sullivan, जो पहचाना the प्रॉपर्टी 's ऐतिहासिक मान और working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures, are buried at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property, and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt.
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the मिशन : fathers जोस barona, विसेंट fustér, और विसेंट पास्कुआल oliva हैं सब entombed beneath the sanctuary floor.
The Criolla or `` मिशन अंगूर, '' थी पहला planted at सैन जुआन capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the first wine produced in Alta California emerged from the Mission 's winery.
The Mission डाला a long काल of क्रमिक मनाही बाद secularization in 1833.
Numerous efforts यहूद बना over the सालो to restore the मिशन to इसके पूर्व glory, but none met with great success until the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910.
Restoration efforts continue, and `` सेरा 's चैपल '' is स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये धार्मिक सेवाएं.
About half-a-million विज़िटर, सहित 80,000 स्कूल children, आइये to the Mission each year.
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a renowned architectural wonder, the Mission is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the सालाना `` वापसी of the दात '' जिससे is traditionally observed प्रत्येक कूच 19 ( संत जोसेफ 's Day ).
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite subject लिये अनेक notable कलाकारों, और रै महरूम immortalized in साहित्य और on फिल्मी numerous टाइम्स, शायद अधिक than any other mission.
In 1984, a modern church complex was constructed बस उत्तर और वेस्ट of the मिशन यौगिक और is अभी ज्ञात as मिशन basilica सैन Juan Capistrano.
Today, the mission compound serves as a संग्रहालय, साथ the सेरा चैपल भीतर the यौगिक सेवारत as a chapel for the mission parish.
Better Off Dead is a 1985 अमरीकी टीन रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी अभिनीत जॉन Cusack and written and directed by Savage Steve Holland.
It tells the story of ऊँची स्कूल छात्र लेन myer जो is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him.
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome and commonly The Superdome ) is a खेल और प्रदर्शनी स्टेडियम, स्तिथ in the सेंट्रल कारोबार ज़िला of नई ऑरलियन्स, louisiana, USA.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the नई ऑरलियन्स modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis.
Its steel फ़्रेम कवर a expanse.
Its dome is बना of a lamella multi-ringed फ़्रेम और रै a व्यास of, बनाना it the largest fixed domed structure in the world.
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints, the NCAA 's Division I-A Tulane Green Wave football team ( the largest फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम in सम्मेलन यूएसए ), the राज्य फार्म bayou क्लासिक, the r+l वाहक नई ऑरलियन्स कटोरी, the allstate Sugar Bowl and, every fourth year, the BCS National Championship Game.
Because of the size and location in one of the major tourist destinations in the United States, the superdome routinely makes the `` छोटी सूची '' of उम्मीदवार होने माना लिये प्रमुख sporting कार्यक्रम, ऐसे as the Super Bowl and the Final Four.
In 2005, the Superdome gained international ध्यान of a अलग प्रकार जब it housed हज़ारों of लोगों seeking आश्रय इससे hurricane कैटरीना.
The भवन suffered extensive क्षति as a परिणाम of the तूफ़ान, और was closed for many months afterward.
On October 3, 2011, it थी घोषित कि जर्मनी automaker mercedes-benz purchased naming rights to the stadium.
The new नाम took प्रभाव on अक्तूबर 23, 2011.
It is the third stadium that has naming rights from Mercedes-Benz ( and first in the United राज्य ), बाद the mercedes-benz एरिना, the स्टेडियम of bundesliga क्लबों vfb stuttgart, in stuttgart, जर्मनी और the mercedes-benz एरिना in शंघाई, China.
लॉबी of जम्बो House
जिराफ़ on the savannah at Jambo House
Disney 's Animal किंगडम आवास is an african-themed डीलक्स resort at the Walt Disney World Resort.
It खोली on अप्रैल 16, 2001.
The resort is स्वामित्व और संचालित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Parks and Resorts.
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the Animal किंगडम रिज़ॉर्ट क्षेत्रफल, सटा to डिज़्नी 's एनिमल किंगडम.
It gives guests the opportunity to view grazing wildlife outside their rooms and public क्षेत्रों in the रिज़ॉर्ट भीतर निकटता of the पशु, conveying the अहसास of होने in an African savanna.
The People 's Party, also known as the `` populists '', थी a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त राज्य स्थापित in 1891 दौरान the populist गति ( United States, 19th Century ).
It was most important in 1892-96, और तब rapidly धुंधली away.
Based among poor, white cotton farmers in the South ( especially North कैरोलिना, अलबामा, और टेक्सास ) और hard-pressed गेहूं किसानो in the मैदान राज्य ( विशेषकर कान्सास और नेब्रास्का ), it represented a कट्टरपंथी crusading रूप of agrarianism और hostility to banks, railroads, and elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions, and in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed उनके अध्यक्षीय nominee, विलियम Jennings Bryan.
The terms `` populist '' और `` populism `` हैं commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in opposition to established interests and mainstream parties.
Linguistic map of सीरियल, कैमरून, and Benin.
चिह्न in अंग्रेज़ी, बाहर the University of Lagos
There are hundreds of भाषाएं बोला in सीरियल.
The major languages are Yoruba, हौसा, इग्बो, ईदो, fulfulde, कनूरी, और ibb.
The आधिकारिक भाषा of सीरियल, अंग्रेज़ी, the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा, थी चुनी to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an विशेष बचाना of the देश 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely spoken in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing three प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं परिवारों : afroasiatic, nilo-saharan, और niger–congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an भी वृहद विविधता prior to the स्प्रेड of the वर्तमान भाषा families.
A श्रेणी of कार्यक्रम led to the आक्रमण on Pearl Harbor.
War between Japan and the संयुक्त राज्य था महरूम a सम्भावना कि प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's सैन्य शक्तियां नियोजित लिये चूंकि the 1920s, though real tension did not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan.
Over the next decade, Japan विस्तारित धीरे into चीन, अग्रणी to सब out war between the two in 1937.
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an प्रयत्न to embargo सब imports into चीन, सहित युद्ध आपूर्तियाँ purchased from the U.S.
This move prompted the United States to embargo सब आयल निर्यात, अग्रणी the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी to अनुमान कि it था कम than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans to seize oil resources in the Dutch East Indies.
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` Southern Resource क्षेत्रफल '' to add it to the वृहद ईस्ट एशिया co-prosperity गोला कि जापानी envisioned in the प्रशांत.
The Philippine आइलैंड्स, at कि समय an अमरीकी territory, यहूद भी a Japanese target.
The Japanese military concluded that an आक्रमण of the फिलीपीन होता provoke an अमरीकी military response.
Rather than seize and fortify the islands, and wait लिये the अपरिहार्य us counterattack, जापानी 's सैन्य नेताओ बजाय decided on the pre-emptive पर्ल हार्बर आक्रमण, जिससे वे assumed होता negate the अमरीकी शक्तियां needed लिये the मुक्ति और reconquest of the islands.
Planning for the attack had begun in बहुत जल्दी 1941, by admiral isoroku Yamamoto.
He finally won assent from the Naval High कमांड by, among अन्य बाते, threatening to इस्तीफा.
The आक्रमण थी स्वीकृत in the गर्मियाँ at an इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन और again at a दूसरी सम्मेलन in the fall.
Simultaneously over the year, पायलटों यहूद प्रशिक्षित, और जहाजों prepared लिये इसके निष्पादन.
प्राधिकार लिये the आक्रमण थी granted at the दूसरी इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन if a राजनयिक परिणाम संतोषजनक to Japan was not reached.
After final approval by Emperor Hirohito the अनुक्रम to आक्रमण थी जारी at the शुरूआत of दिसम्बर.
A आम दफ्तर stapler
A common स्कूल stapler
A stapler is a mechanical यंत्र कि joins चादरें of पेपर or समान सामग्री by ड्राइविंग a पतला मेटल staple through the sheets and folding the ends.
Staplers are widely used in government, कारोबार, कार्यालयों, घरों और स्कूलों.
The word `` stapler '' can दरअसल refer to a number of different devices of varying uses.
In addition to joining पेपर चादरें साथ, staplers can भी be प्रयुक्त in a सर्जिकल सेटिंग to जुड़ें ऊतक साथ साथ सर्जिकल staples to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ).
Typically, सबसे staplers हैं प्रयुक्त to join multiple sheets of paper.
Paper staplers come in two पृथक प्रकार : हस्तचालित और इलेक्ट्रिक.
Manual staplers are normally hand-held, हालांकि मॉडल कि हैं प्रयुक्त जबकि नियत on a डेस्क or अन्य सतह are not uncommon.
Electric staplers exist in a variety of अलग डिजाइन और मॉडल.
उनके प्राथमिक ऑपरेटिंग फलन is to जुड़ें विशाल संख्याएँ of paper sheets together in rapid succession.
Some इलेक्ट्रिक staplers can जुड़ें up to 20 sheets at a time.
swallowing, ज्ञात scientifically as deglutition, is the प्रक्रम in the human or animal body that makes something pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, and into the esophagus, while shutting the epiglottis.
If this fails and the object goes through the श्वासनली, तब choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the human body it is नियंत्रित by the swallowing reflex.
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – अगस्त 11, 1868 ), of पेन्सिलवेनिया, थी a नेता of the कट्टरपंथी रिपब्लिकन गुट of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और a fierce प्रतिद्वन्दी of slavery.
He was one of the most influential सदस्यों in the इतिहास of Congress.
As chairman of the शक्तिशाली हाउस तरीके और अर्थात् कमेटी, स्टीवंस, a witty, व्यंग्यात्मक स्पीकर and flamboyant party leader, dominated the House from 1861 until his death.
He लिखा much of the वित्तीय विधान कि paid for the American Civil War.
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the प्रधान नेताओ of the कट्टरपंथी republicans दौरान the युद्ध और पुनर्निर्माण era.
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply चूंकि उसके मौत as interpretations of पुनर्निर्माण have बदला.
Historians of the dunning स्कूल ( 1890s–1940s ) आयोजित स्टीवंस जिम्मेदार लिये demanding हर्ष उपचार of the श्वेत दक्षिण और violating अमरीकी traditions of republicanism, depicting Stevens as a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
This highly ऋणात्मक characterization आयोजित sway into the 1950s.
The rise of the neo-abolitionist स्कूल in the 1950s led to a दमदार positive appreciation of Stevens ' work on civil rights for Freedmen.
A recent biographer characterizes him as, `` The Great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican नेता in the struggles विरूद्ध गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य और intrepid mainstay of the attempt to सुरक्षित जातिगत इंसाफ लिये the freedmen दौरान पुनर्निर्माण, the तभी सदस्य of the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि कभी to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
अवलोकन of the अनुवाद of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA और the संश्लेषण of प्रोटीन by a राइबोसोम
In molecular biology and आनुवंशिकी, अनुवाद is the प्रक्रम through जिससे सेल्यूलर ribosomes manufacture proteins.
It is part of the प्रक्रम of जीन अभिव्यक्ति.
In translation, messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by ट्रांसक्रिप्शन is decoded by the राइबोसोम to उपज a विशिष्ट अमीनो एसिड कड़ी, or polypeptide, कि होगा बाद मोड़ें into an active protein.
In bacteria, अनुवाद occurs in the कोशिका 's कोशिकाद्रव्य, जहाँ the विशाल और छोटी subunits of the ribosome are located, and bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, translation occurs आरपार the झिल्ली of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis.
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of tRNAs with पूरक anticodon sequences to कि of the mrna.
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are chained together into a polypeptide as the mrna गुजरता through और is `` पढ़ा '' by the राइबोसोम in a फ़ैशन reminiscent to कि of a stock ticker and ticker tape.
In many instances, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer झिल्ली of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और रिलीज the nascent प्रोटीन polypeptide अंदर लिये बाद vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell.
Many types of transcribed RNA, ऐसे as ट्रांसफ़र rna, ribosomal rna, और छोटी नाभिकीय rna, do not undergo translation into proteins.
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation, elongation, translocation and termination ( सब describing the विकास of the अमीनो एसिड कड़ी, or polypeptide कि is the उत्पाद of अनुवाद ).
अमीनो acids हैं brought to ribosomes और समवेत into proteins.
In सक्रियण, the सही अमीनो एसिड is covalently बंधुआ to the सही transfer RNA ( tRNA ).
The amino एसिड is joined by इसके carboxyl समूह to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond.
जब the trna रै an अमीनो acid linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
Initiation involves the small subunit of the राइबोसोम बाइंडिंग to the 5 ' समाप्त of mrna साथ the सहायता of दीक्षा factors ( IF ).
Termination of the polypeptide happens when the A साईट of the राइबोसोम चेहरों a रोकें codon ( uaa, uag, or UGA ).
No tRNA can recognize or bind to इस codon.
Instead, the stop codon induces the बाइंडिंग of a रिलीज फ़ैक्टर प्रोटीन कि prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex.
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, और puromycin, among others.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure इससे कि of eukaryotic ribosomes, और यूँ एंटीबायोटिक can specifically निशाना बैक्टीरियल infections बगैर कोई detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells.
a मल्टीमीडिया संदेश on a mobile phone.
Multimedia Messaging सेवा ( mms ) is a मानक रास्ता to भेजें संदेश कि शामिल मल्टीमीडिया सामग्री to और इससे mobile phones.
It extends the core SMS ( छोटी संदेश सेवा ) काबिलियत कि अनुमत एक्सचेंज of टेक्स्ट संदेश तभी up to 160 characters in length.
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets, हालांकि it is भी लोकप्रिय as a method of delivering news and entertainment content including videos, pictures, text pages and ringtones.
The standard is विकसित by the खोलें मोबाईल गठबंधन ( ओमो ), हालांकि दौरान विकास it थी भाग of the 3GPP and WAP groups.
Smallpox was an infectious disease unique to इंसानो, caused by either of दो वायरस विसंगतियाँ, variola प्रमुख and Variola minor.
the बीमारी is भी ज्ञात by the लैटिन names variola or variola वीरा, निकला इससे varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ).
The disease was originally ज्ञात in अंग्रेज़ी as the `` चेचक '' or `` रेड प्लेग '' ; the पद `` smallpox '' थी पहला प्रयुक्त in Britain in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox '' ( syphilis ).
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( variola नाबालिग ) थी diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
Smallpox स्थानीयकृत in छोटी रक्त बरतन of the स्किन और in the mouth and throat.
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular खाज और, बाद, उठाया fluid-filled blisters.
V. major produces a more गंभीर बीमारी और रै an overall मृत्यु rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor causes a milder form of बीमारी ( भी ज्ञात as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, and Cuban itch ) which kills about 1 % of its victims.
Long-term complications of V. major infection include characteristic scars, commonly on the फेस, जिससे occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring, and limb deformities due to गठिया और osteomyelitis हैं कम common complications, seen in about 2–5 % of cases.
smallpox is believed to have उभरा in human populations about 10,000 BC.
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the pustular खाज on the mummified देह of pharaoh ramses v of Egypt.
The disease killed an estimated 400,000 europeans annually दौरान the closing सालो of the 18th सदी ( सहित पाँच reigning monarchs ), और थी जिम्मेदार for a third of all blindness.
Of all those संक्रमित, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died from the disease.
Smallpox was जिम्मेदार लिये an अनुमानित 300–500 लाख मौतों दौरान the 20th century.
As recently as 1967, the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ) अनुमानित कि 15 लाख लोगों contracted the बीमारी and that two million died in that year.
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the जो certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated, the अन्य होने rinderpest, जिससे थी घोषित eradicated in 2011.
`` I Want to थाम अपना हाथ '' is a सोंग by the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड the Beatles.
Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney, and recorded in अक्तूबर 1963, it थी the पहला बीटल्स रिकार्ड to be बना using four-track उपकरण.
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would साधारणतया have गए सीधा to the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों रिकार्ड चार्ट on इसके दिन of रिलीज ( 29 नवम्बर 1963 ) था it नहीं महरूम अवरोधित by the समूह 's पहला लाख विक्रेता `` वो loves तुम ``, the बीटल्स ' पिछला uk सिंगल, जिससे थी having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the group.
Taking two weeks to dislodge its predecessor, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये पाँच सप्ताह और remained in the uk शीर्ष पचास लिये twenty-one सप्ताह in total.
It was also the group 's first American number one, entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at क्रमांक forty-five और starting the अंग्रेजों आक्रमण of the अमरीकी म्यूज़िक उद्योग.
By 1 फ़रवरी it आयोजित the क्रमांक एक स्पॉट — लिये सात सप्ताह — पहले होने replaced by `` वो loves तुम '', a रिवर्स परिदृश्य of कया had occurred in Britain, and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks.
`` I Want to थाम अपना हाथ '' became the बीटल्स ' best-selling single worldwide.
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the संयुक्त राज्य in the लेट 1950s और जारी जबतक the early 1970s.
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s, which have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide बेहतर वज़न वितरण on त्वरण ( बीम axles हैं भी हल्का than an स्वतंत्र सामने बर्खास्तगी ), हालांकि a उठाया भण्डार सामने बर्खास्तगी is आम as खूब.
आम वज़न कटौती तकनीकों शामिल fiberglass देह panels, stripped इंटीरियर्स और plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ).
Because they were primarily built for racing, these cars typically था the इंजन swapped to a larger or अधिक शक्तिशाली एक, the मौजूदा भण्डार इंजन modified ( often heavily ) or both.
It was very common to fit a Roots supercharger and mechanical fuel इंजेक्शन, ऐसे as एक इससे algon, hilborn, or Crower.
With form being लिखवाई by फलन, उनके रूप is प्रायः बहुत शीर्ष भारी और ungainly, largely due to सामने ends होने उठाया उच्चतर than भण्डार, to assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ).
Having their exhaust पाइप निकास through the सामने फेंडर खूब is a आम characteristic of gassers, as is having लाशें चित्रित in flamboyant metalflakes, मोती, और कैंडी finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts.
The name arose because they competed in a gasoline -fueled drag रेसिंग क्लास, बल्कि than एक using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the पूर्ववर्ती of the आधुनिक Funny Car.
Twelve-lead ईकेजी of a 26-year-old male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( आरपार the वक्ष or छाती ) निर्वचन of the विद्युत कार्यकलाप of the दिल over a काल of समय, as detected by electrodes संलग्न to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body.
The recording produced by this noninvasive कार्यविधि is termed an electrocardiogram ( भी ईसीजी or ईकेजी ).
An ECG is प्रयुक्त to माप the रेट और नियमितता of heartbeats, as खूब as the आकार और स्थिति of the कक्षों, the उपस्थिति of कोई क्षति to the दिल, and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart, such as a pacemaker.
Most ECGs are performed for निदान or शोध उद्देश्य on इंसान दिल, लकिन may भी be performed on पशु, प्रायः लिये निदान of दिल abnormalities or research.
Donald John Trump, Sr. ( born June 14, 1946 ) is an अमरीकी कारोबार महारथी, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और लेखक.
He is the chairman and president of The ट्रम्प संगठन और the संस्थापक of ट्रम्प entertainment रिसॉर्ट.
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the NBC reality show The Apprentice have बना उसे a well-known हस्ती जो थी no. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
Trump is the बेटे of फ्रेड ट्रम्प, a धनवान New York City real-estate developer.
He worked for his father 's firm, Elizabeth Trump & Son, while attending the Wharton स्कूल of the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया, और in 1968 officially joined the कम्पनी.
He was given control of the कम्पनी in 1971 और renamed it the ट्रम्प संगठन.
In 2010, ट्रम्प expressed an ब्याज in बनने a प्रत्याशी लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य in the 2012 चुनाव, हालांकि in may 2011, he announced he would not be a candidate.
In December 2011, Trump was suggested as a संभावित वाइस अध्यक्षीय चयन by मिशेल bachmann, if वो यहूद to जीत the रिपब्लिकन नामांकन.
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam cooke, लिखा और पहला अंकित in 1963 और released अंतर्गत the आरसीए विक्टर लेबल shortly बाद his death in late 1964.
Though only a modest hit लिये cooke in तुलना with his previous singles, the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement.
The song has gained in लोकप्रियता और नाजुक acclaim in the दशकों चूंकि इसके release, and is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
भाप उठती इससे the nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति Station in Iceland.
geothermal उर्जा is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न and stored in the Earth.
थर्मल उर्जा is the उर्जा कि determines the temperature of matter.
The geothermal उर्जा of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal अनुपात, जिससे is the अंतर in तापमान between the कोर of the ग्रह and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), meaning धरती, और θερμος ( thermos ), अर्थ hot.
At the core of the धरती, थर्मल उर्जा is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय और temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts इससे the कोर to surrounding cooler rock.
The ऊँची तापमान और दबाव कारण कुछ चट्टान to melt, creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats rock और जल in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
इससे hot स्रोतों, geothermal उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान चूंकि paleolithic टाइम्स और लिये स्पेस heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal शक्ति is online in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला हीटिंग, स्पेस हीटिंग, स्पा, औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं, desalination और agricultural applications.
geothermal शक्ति is लागत प्रभावी, विश्वसनीय, चिरस्थायी, और environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन रै historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
हाल technological अग्रिम have dramatically विस्तारित the दायरा और आकार of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग such as home heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the धरती, लकिन ये emissions हैं much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a परिणाम, geothermal शक्ति रै the संभावित to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The धरती 's geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to supply humanity 's energy needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and खोजी लिये गहन संसाधन is बहुत expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power निर्भर on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी, उर्जा कीमतें, subsidies, और ब्याज rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's ग्राहक ऑप्ट in ग्रीन शक्ति कार्यक्रम दिखाएँ कि ग्राहक होता be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal.
But as a परिणाम of सरकारी assisted शोध और उद्योग अनुभव, the लागत of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal उर्जा लागत between दो और टेन सेंट per kwh.
Ownership of property may be private, सामूहिक, or आम और the प्रॉपर्टी may be वस्तुएँ, land/real एस्टेट, or बौद्धिक property.
Determining ownership in law involves determining जो रै निश्चित अधिकारों और कर्तव्य over the property.
These rights and duties, sometimes पुकारा a 'bundle of अधिकारों ', can be अलग और आयोजित by different parties.
The question of ownership पहुँच वापस to the प्राचीन दार्शनिकों, प्लेटो और अरस्तू, जो आयोजित अलग राय on the subject.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property created divisive inequalities, जबकि अरस्तू ( 384 bc – 322 bc ) विचार निजी प्रॉपर्टी सक्रिय लोगों to प्राप्त the पूरा लाभ of their labor.
Private property can circumvent what is अभी referred to as the “ त्रासदी of the कॉमन्स ” प्रॉब्लम, जहाँ लोगों tend to रुसवा आम प्रॉपर्टी more than they do private property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for उदाहरण, a निजी मालिक of a टुकड़ा of oil-rich प्रॉपर्टी, depending on उसके worldview, might be अधिक दिलचस्पी in short-term वित्तीय लाभ than वृद्धिशील उपयोग साथ an eye toward other 's concerns ( e.g., those of future generations, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
While Aristotle जायज the अस्तित्व of निजी स्वामित्व, he बाएँ खोलें सवाल of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate प्रॉपर्टी between what is private and common and ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society.
Over the millennia, and आरपार संस्कृतियों कया can be प्रॉपर्टी और कैसा it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the आधार लिये अनेक अन्य अवधारणाओं कि रूप the मूलाधार of प्राचीन और आधुनिक समाजों such as money, trade, debt, bankruptcy, the criminality of theft, and private vs. public property.
Ownership is the key building block in the विकास of the पूंजीवादी socio-economic प्रणाली.
Adam स्मिथ stated कि एक of the पवित्र कानून of इंसाफ was to guard a person 's property and possessions.
The process and mechanics of ownership are fairly जटिल : एक can लाभ, ट्रांसफ़र और खोना स्वामित्व of प्रॉपर्टी in a क्रमांक of ways.
To acquire property one can purchase it with धन, व्यापार it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी, प्राप्त it as a तोहफा, चोरी it, ढूँढें it, मेक, it or होमस्टीड it.
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money, exchanging it for other प्रॉपर्टी, giving it as a तोहफा, होने robbed of it, it, or having it stripped from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
Ownership is self-propagating in कि the मालिक of कोई प्रॉपर्टी होगा भी अपना the आर्थिक लाभ of that property.
`` What 's My Name ? '' is a सोंग अंकित by barbadian रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार रिहाना, लिये उसके पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम लाउड ( 2010 ).
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake, the सोंग थी released as the दूसरी सिंगल इससे लाउड on अक्तूबर 29, 2010 through Def Jam Recordings.
The R & B song was produced by the नॉर्वेजियाई उत्पादन duo स्टारगेट, और थी लिखा by the duo साथ साथ ester डीन, Traci Hale, and Drake.
lyrically, it incorporates विषयवस्तु of यौन intercourse and romance.
Music critics दिया the सोंग धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ, citing it कुछ of रिहाना 's बेहतरीन गायन कार्य to तिथि ; there was a praise regarding its romantic nature, as well as its sexual tones.
`` What 's My Name ? '' थी a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी और अव्वल the us बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट, giving रिहाना उसके तीसरा number-one सिंगल in 2010, as well as her eighth overall on the chart.
the सोंग भी अव्वल the चार्ट in हंगेरियाई और the संयुक्त किंगडम और reached the top five in Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway and Slovakia.
The song received a नामांकन at the 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन rap/sung सहयोग.
An accompanying music video, directed by Philip andelman, portrays a रोमांटिक एनकाउंटर between रिहाना और ड्रेक in a किराना स्टोर साथ साथ रोमांटिक दृश्यों between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live performances across both sides of the अटलांटिक, सहित शनिवार रात्रि सजीव in अमेरिका और the श्रेणी सात finale of the x फ़ैक्टर in the United Kingdom.
The latter performance resulted in an investigation from the country 's मीडिया नियामक, ofcom, लिये the raunchy प्रकृति of रिहाना 's outfit.
A mathematical constant is a खास क्रमांक, प्रायः a रियल क्रमांक, कि is `` significantly interesting in some way ''.
Constants arise in many अलग क्षेत्रों of गणित, साथ स्थिरांक ऐसे as e ( गणितीय निरंतर ) | और pi| occurring in ऐसे विविध contexts as geometry, number theory and calculus.
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '', and what makes a constant `` interesting '', is ultimately a matter of स्वाद, और कुछ गणितीय स्थिरांक हैं notable अधिक लिये ऐतिहासिक कारण than लिये उनके मूलभूत गणितीय interest.
The more popular constants have been पढ़ाई throughout the आयु और computed to many decimal places.
All mathematical constants are definable numbers and usually हैं भी computable संख्याएँ ( chaitin 's निरंतर होने a significant exception ).
Elections to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट यहूद आयोजित on नवम्बर 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats.
( A special election on जनवरी 19, 2010 in मैसाचुसेट्स थी आयोजित पहले in the year. )
Thirty-four of the सीटे यहूद लिये six-year शर्तें to the सीनेट 's `` क्लास three '', and three were special elections for shorter terms.
Of the 37 elections, 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of जिसको रिटायर्ड or यहूद पराजित in the प्राथमिक ) और 18 प्रदर्शित लाज़िम Republicans ( eight of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ).
बाद the पिछला चुनावों ( in 2008 ), the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट थी रचित of 58 डेमोक्रेट, 40 Republicans, and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats.
Republicans won four सीटे आयोजित by retiring डेमोक्रेट और republicans पराजित दो लाज़िम Democrats.
This was the largest number of republicans gains चूंकि the 1994 चुनावों और भी the पहला time since that election that Republicans successfully defended all of their own seats.
This was the fourth consecutive election of `` क्लास 3 '' सीनेटरों जहाँ डेमोक्रेट have विफल to लाभ सीटे और the तीसरा लगातार mid-term चुनाव held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats.
Despite these Republican wins, however, the Democrats retained a majority of the Senate with 51 सीटे प्लस 2 independents जो caucus साथ उन्हें, compared to the 47 republicans.
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice प्रत्येक साल as the सूर्य पहुँच इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम excursion सापेक्ष to the celestial equator on the celestial गोला.
As a result, on the day of the संक्रांति, the सूर्य appears to have पहुँचे इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम सालाना ऊँचाई in the आसमान ऊपर the क्षितिज at लोकल सौर noon.
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( सूर्य ) और sistere ( to स्टैंड स्टिल ), क्युकी at the solstices, the सूर्य स्टैंड स्टिल in उतार ; कि is, the मौसमी गति of the Sun 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction.
The solstices, साथ साथ the equinoxes, हैं कनेक्ट साथ the seasons.
In many cultures the solstices चिह्नित either the शुरूआत or the midpoint of शीत and summer.
The term solstice can also be प्रयुक्त in a broader भाव, as the तिथि ( दिन ) जब इस occurs.
The day of the solstice is either the longest दिन of the साल ( in गर्मियाँ ) or the shortest दिन of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics.
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29, 1935 ) is an अमरीकी चट्टान और फेंकें और देश म्यूज़िक singer-songwriter and pianist.
He is known by the उपनाम `` the कातिल '' और is प्रायः viewed as “rock & roll 's first great wild man”.
An जल्दी पायोनियर of चट्टान और फेंकें म्यूज़िक, in 1956 लुईस बना उसके पहला recordings at Sun Records.
`` क्रेजी बाहें `` बेची 300,000 नक़ल in the दक्षिण, लकिन it थी उसके 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide.
Lewis followed this in कि वही साल जब he अंकित गीतों ऐसे as `` ग्रेट गेंदें of आग ``, `` breathless `` and `` High School Confidential ``.
Lewis sold अधिक रिकॉर्ड than एल्विस प्रेस्ली at this time.
However, Lewis ' चट्टान 'n ' फेंकें करियर faltered in the वेक of उसके विवाह to his young cousin.
He had छोटी कामयाबी in the चार्ट following the कांड and his popularity quickly faded.
उसके सजीव प्रदर्शन शुल्क plummeted इससे $ 10,000 per night to $ 250.
in the meantime he थी संकल्पित to लाभ वापस some of his popularity.
During the जल्दी 60’s he किया n't have much चार्ट कामयाबी साथ few अपवाद such as `` What 'd I Say ``.
His live performances at this time were increasingly जंगली और ऊर्जावान.
His album Live at the Star क्लबों, हैम्बर्ग इससे 1964 is प्रायः regarded by अनेक म्यूज़िक पत्रकारों और प्रशंसक as एक of the wildest और greatest rock and roll concert albums ever.
After रिकॉर्डिंग गीतों ऐसे as `` i 'm on आग '' लिये अनेक सालो साथ छोटी कामयाबी, in 1968 लुईस made a transition into country music and had hits with songs such as `` Another Place, Another Time ''.
This reignited उसके करियर और throughout the लेट '60s और '70s he regularly अव्वल the country-western charts.
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make प्रेम मीठी लिये तुम ``, `` वहीँ जरूर be अधिक to प्रेम than इस ``, `` होता तुम लो another मौका on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee ``.
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock 'n ' roll past with गीतों ऐसे as a कवर of the बिग bopper 's `` chantilly फीता `` और `` rockin ' my जीवन दूर ``.
In the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to ऑडियंस around the संसार और स्टिल रिलीज नई एल्बम.
One such album, titled Last man खड़ा, is उसके बेहतरीन selling to तिथि at over a लाख नक़ल sold worldwide.
This was followed by Mean Old Man which रै प्राप्त कुछ of the बेहतरीन बिक्री of lewis’s career.
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both चट्टान और देश, जीती अनेक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, सहित a आजीवन उपलब्धि Award.
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986, and उसके pioneering योगदान to the विधा रै महरूम पहचाना by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.
In 1989, his life was chronicled in the फिल्म ग्रेट गेंदें of आग, अभिनीत डेनिस Quaid.
In 2003, रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका सूचीबद्ध उसके बक्सा नियत सब कातिल, no फिलर : the anthology क्रमांक 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest albums of all time ``.
in 2004, वे क्रमित उसे क्रमांक 24 on उनके सूची of the 100 महानतम कलाकारों of All Time.
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun रिकॉर्ड ' लाख डालर quartet और the क्लास of '55 एल्बम, जिससे भी शामिल जॉनी नकदी, कार्ल perkins, रॉय orbison and Elvis Presley.
Henry Louis Stephens, बेनाम watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man पढना a समाचारपत्र साथ शीर्षक `` अध्यक्षीय Proclamation / Slavery ''.
The emancipation उदघोषणा थी an अनुक्रम जारी to सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ( सहित the फौज और नेवी ) of the संयुक्त राज्य by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the American Civil War.
It was based on the president 's संवैधानिक प्राधिकार as कमांडर in मुख्य of the armed forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress.
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free, और ordered the फौज ( और सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत as फ़्री सब those enslaved in टेन राज्य कि यहूद स्टिल in विद्रोह, यूँ applying to 3.1 लाख of the 4 million slaves in the U.S.
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under rebellion, but as the army took control of confederate regions, the स्लेव in those regions यहूद emancipated बल्कि than लौटे to उनके मास्टर्स.
From 20,000 to 50,000 पूर्व स्लेव in regions जहाँ विद्रोह था already महरूम subdued यहूद तत्काल emancipated, और over 3 लाख अधिक यहूद emancipated as the Union army advanced.
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave राज्य कि यहूद नहीं in विद्रोह, nor to सबसे regions already नियंत्रित by the संघ फौज ; emancipation वहीँ होता आइये बाद पृथक राज्य क्रियाएँ and/or the दिसम्बर 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S.
The Proclamation did not compensate the स्वामी, किया नहीं itself गैरकानूनी गुलामी, और किया नहीं make the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens.
It made the eradication of slavery an सुस्पष्ट युद्ध लक्ष्य, in जोड to the लक्ष्य of reuniting the Union.
On September 22, 1862, lincoln था जारी a प्रारंभिक उदघोषणा कि he होता अनुक्रम the emancipation of सब स्लेव in कोई राज्य of the confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1, 1863.
None returned, and the order, signed और जारी जनवरी 1, 1863, took प्रभाव मगर in स्थितियाँ where the Union had already mostly regained control.
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners जो envisioned a रेस युद्ध, angered कुछ उत्तरी डेमोक्रेट, सक्रिय anti-slavery forces, and weakened forces in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy.
It also lifted the spirits of African Americans both in the Southern and Northern States, and led to many स्लेव escaping उनके मास्टर्स और कार्यशील पीछे संघ लाइनों in अनुक्रम to have उनके emancipation enforced.
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by Zack Snyder and co-written by उसे और स्टीव शिबुया.
It is Snyder 's पहला फिल्मी आधारित on an original script.
The फिल्मी सितारों एमिली ब्राउनिंग, abbie cornish, जेना malone, वैनेसा Hudgens, Jamie Chung, and Carla Gugino.
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young woman who is वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी संस्था, as वो makes a योजना to एस्केप the हॉस्पिटल पहले कष्ट a मस्तिष्कखंडछेदन.
The film was released in both conventional और imax थिएटर in the संयुक्त राज्य at मध्यरात्रि on कूच 25, 2011.
It received generally ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, लकिन थी a मॉडरेट बक्सा दफ्तर success.
Front और वापस of canon powershot a95, a ठेठ pocket-size digital camera
haselblad 503cw साथ ixpress v96c डिजिटल वापस, an उदाहरण of a professional digital camera system
A डिजिटल कैमरा ( or digicam ) is a कैमरा कि takes video or still photographs by recording images on an electronic image sensor.
Most cameras sold today are डिजिटल, और डिजिटल कैमरे हैं incorporated into अनेक डिवाइस ranging इससे गुस्से और मोबाईल phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles.
Digital and film cameras share an optical system, typically using a लेंस साथ a परिवर्तनीय diaphragm to फ़ोकस लाइट onto an image pickup device.
The diaphragm and shutter admit the correct amount of light to the imager, बस as साथ फिल्मी लकिन the चित्र पिकअप यंत्र is इलेक्ट्रॉनिक बल्कि than chemical.
However, unlike film कैमरे, डिजिटल कैमरे can प्रदर्शक बिंब on a स्क्रीन तत्काल बाद होने recorded, and store and delete images from memory.
Many digital cameras can भी रिकार्ड चलती वीडियो साथ ध्वनि.
Some डिजिटल कैमरे can क्रॉप और सिलाई तस्वीरें और perform other elementary image editing.
The inside and front of a Dell PowerEdge web server, a कंप्यूटर designed लिये रैक mounting
Multiple web servers may be used for a high ट्रैफ़िक जालस्थल, यहाँ चार सूर्य आग x4200 सर्वर हैं संस्थापित साथ
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the तन्त्र ( the कंप्यूटर अनुप्रयोग ) कि helps to उद्धार वेब सामग्री कि can be पहुँचा through the अंतरजाल.
The most common use of web servers is to host websites, but there हैं अन्य उपयोग ऐसे as गेमिंग, आंकड़ा भंडार or कार्यशील एंटरप्राइज़ अनुप्रयोग.
The American Red Cross ( ARC ), also known as the American National Red Cross, is a humanitarian संगठन कि provides आपात सहायता, विपत्ति राहत और शिक्षा अंदर the संयुक्त States.
It is the designated u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Today, in addition to domestic disaster relief, the अमरीकी रेड क्रॉस offers सेवाएं in पाँच अन्य क्षेत्रों : जातियाँ सेवाएं कि सहायता the मोहताज ; संचार सेवाएं और सुकून लिये सैन्य सदस्यों और उनके परिवार सदस्यों ; the संग्रहण, प्रसंस्करण और वितरण of रक्त and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness, health, and safety ; and international relief and development programs.
Issued a कॉरपोरेट चार्टर by the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत शीर्षक 36 of the संयुक्त राज्य कोड, खण्ड 3001, the American National Red Cross is governed by volunteers and supported by community donations, income from health and safety training and products, and income from blood products.
The अमरीकी रेड क्रॉस is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
The अध्यक्ष of the फलक of राज्यपालों, सेवारत उसके दूसरी three-year term, is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The current President and Chief Executive अधिकारी is गेल J. mcgovern.
A मुर्गा in कोसोवो
a मुर्गा, प्रर्दशित wattles, earlobes and comb
a मुर्गा crowing ( with audio )
सही
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or मुर्गा ) is a पुरूष gallinaceous बर्ड.
It प्रायः refers to a पुरूष मुर्गा ( gallus gallus ).
Immature male chickens less than एक साल बूढ़ा हैं पुकारा cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the संयुक्त राज्य, और the पद is widely प्रयुक्त throughout North America, as well as Australia and New Zealand.
In the United किंगडम और आयरलैंड the पुरानी पद `` cockerel '' is more commonly used.
`` Cock '' is in general उपयोग as the नाम लिये a पुरूष of अन्य species of bird, for example `` Cock sparrow ''.
`` Roosting '' is the कार्रवाई of perching aloft to नींद at रात्रि, और is किया by both sexes.
The मुर्गा is polygamous, लकिन can नहीं गार्ड अनेक nests of eggs at once.
He guards the general area where his hens are nesting, और होगा आक्रमण अन्य roosters कि डालें उसके territory.
During the daytime, he usually sits on a ऊँची पर्च, प्रायः 3–5 फीट बंद the मैदान to serve as a lookout लिये उसके झुण्ड.
He will sound a distinctive सचेतक कॉल if परभक्षी are nearby.
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video खेल श्रेणी, पहला प्रकाशित in अक्तूबर 1996 by मीडिया फैक्टरी in जापानी.
In the US, it थी initially प्रकाशित by wizards of the coast, the कम्पनी that produces, in December 1998.
Nintendo took over प्रकाशन in June 2003.
It is एक of निन्टेंडो 's पिछला बाकी दमदार links to its heritage as a playing card company.
Land Rover is a British car निर्माता साथ इसके मुख्यालय in gaydon, warwickshire, संयुक्त किंगडम जिससे specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
It is भाग of the जैगुआर जमीन रोवर समूह, a subsidiary of Tata Motors of India.
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car ब्रांड in the संसार ( after Jeep ).
the जमीन रोवर नाम थी originally प्रयुक्त by the रोवर कम्पनी लिये एक विशिष्ट गाडी model, named simply the Land Rover, launched by Rover in 1948.
Over the following years it विकसित into a marque encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive मॉडल, सहित the defender, Discovery, Freelander, Range Rover, Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque.
Land Rovers are फिलहाल समवेत in the कम्पनी 's halewood और solihull पौधे, साथ शोध और विकास लेने place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres.
Land Rover sold 194,000 वाहनों विश्वव्यापी in 2009.
Although the brand originates इससे the असली 1948 मॉडल, जमीन रोवर as a कम्पनी has only existed since 1978.
Prior to this, it was a product line of the Rover Company जिससे थी subsequently अवशोषित into the rover-triumph प्रभाग of the अंग्रेजों leyland मोटर निगम ( bl ) following leyland मोटर निगम ’s कब्ज़ा of Rover in 1967.
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models, and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well documented business परेशानियों prompted the स्थापना of a पृथक जमीन रोवर कम्पनी लकिन स्टिल अंतर्गत the bl छतरियाँ, बाकी भाग of the subsequent रोवर समूह in 1988, अंतर्गत the स्वामित्व of अंग्रेजों aerospace बाद the remains of अंग्रेजों leyland यहूद टूटा up and privatised.
In 1994 रोवर समूह पीएलसी थी acquired by BMW.
in 2000, रोवर समूह थी broken-up by bmw और जमीन रोवर थी sold to Ford Motor Company, becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group.
In 2006 Ford purchased the Rover brand इससे bmw लिये around £6 लाख.
इस reunited the रोवर और जमीन रोवर ब्रांड्स लिये the first time since 2000 when the Rover group was broken up by BMW.
In June 2008, घाट बेची दोनो जमीन रोवर और जैगुआर Cars to Tata Motors.
This बिक्री भी शामिल the dormant Rover brand
The cover of the पहला dvd संकलन released by aniplex of the नई कप्तान shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth ऋतु of the ब्लीच दुश्मनी श्रेणी is named.
The series is आधारित on tite kubo 's manga with same name.
The episodes are directed by Noriyuki abe और उत्पादित by tv टोकियो, Dentsu, and Studio Pierrot.
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new Soul Reaper captain, Shūsuke Amagai, and the रहस्य surrounding the kasumiōji गोत्र, एक of the परिवारों कि constitute the धामों of आत्मा समाज.
The season began airing on April 23, 2008 in Japan on tv टोकियो और ended on अक्तूबर 7, 2008.
The English adaptation of the Bleach anime is licensed by Viz Media, और इस चाप began airing on अगस्त 28, 2010 on कार्टून संजाल 's वयस्क Swim, and finished on January 29, 2011.
Five DVD compilations, each containing four episodes of the ऋतु, have महरूम released by aniplex ; the पहला dvd संकलन थी released on नवम्बर 26, 2008 and the fifth on March 25, 2009.
A DVD box will be प्रकाशित by viz Media on December 13, 2011.
The एपीसोड उपयोग तीन टुकड़े of थीम म्यूज़िक : एक खोलने theme and two closing themes.
The खोलने थीम is `` chu-bura `` by Kelun.
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B, used for एपीसोड 168 to 179, और the दूसरी closing थीम is `` gallop '' by pe'zmoku, प्रयुक्त लिये the शेष of the episodes.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, it is इसलिए exclusively the डोमेन of the राज्य to परमिट, prohibit, or वरना विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, वेश्यावृति is माना a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक order crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at एक समय माना to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the नेवाडा संशोधित Statutes.
Only 8 counties फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील brothels.
All फ़ॉर्म of वेश्यावृति हैं illegal in क्लार्क काउंटी ( जिससे contains the लास vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe County ( which contains Reno ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The other काउंटी theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि, as elsewhere in the देश.
As with other countries, prostitution in the संयुक्त राज्य can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक श्रेणी : गली वेश्यावृति, वेश्यालय prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The East Coast of the United States, also known as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic Seaboard and commonly shortened to ईस्ट coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the संयुक्त राज्य साथ the अटलांटिक Ocean.
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast are, from north to south, the U.S. states of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, rhode द्वीप, कनेक्टिकट, नई यॉर्क, नई जर्सी, डेलावेयर, मेरीलैंड, वर्जिनिया, उत्तर कैरोलिना, दक्षिण Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States, सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974, जब he became the तभी अध्यक्ष to इस्तीफा the office.
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th Vice अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1953 to 1961.
Nixon थी born in yorba लिंडा, California.
he ग्रैजुएट इससे whittier कॉलेज in 1934 और ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of Law in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat निक्सन, स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य लिये the संघीय government in 1942.
He subsequently परोसा in the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी दौरान World War II.
Nixon was elected in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, और elevated उसे to नेशनल prominence.
He थी the कार्यशील mate of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी अध्यक्षीय nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served for eight सालो as वाइस अध्यक्ष.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential अभियान in 1960, narrowly खोने to जॉन F. कैनेडी, और खोया a रेस लिये Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he भागा again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी और was elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated अमेरिका 's भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the दो राष्ट्र, और he initiated détente और the anti-ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
domestically, उसके प्रशासन generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched पहलों to लड़ो कर्कट और illegal दवाएँ, imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of कुछ Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the चंद्र अवतरण beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
he थी re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
Nixon 's दूसरी पद देखी an अरब आयल embargo, the इस्तीफा of उसके वाइस अध्यक्ष, spiro agnew, और a continuing श्रेणी of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of उसके राजनैतिक support, और on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the फेस of लगभग निश्चित महाभियोग and removal from office.
After उसके इस्तीफा, he controversially प्राप्त a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking अनेक विदेशी यात्राएँ, helped to rehabilitate उसके पब्लिक image.
He suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18, 1994, and died four days later at the age of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft, lustral ) is an antidepressant of the चयनात्मक serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
It was introduced to the मार्केट by फाइजर in 1991.
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as खूब as obsessive–compulsive, दहशत, और सोशल चिंता विकार in दोनो adults and children.
in 2011, it थी the second-most विहित antidepressant on the u.S. खुदरा मार्केट, साथ 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to कि of पुरानी tricyclic antidepressants, लकिन इसके पक्ष प्रभाव हैं much कम सुनाया.
Differences with नए antidepressants हैं subtler और भी ज़्यादातर confined to side effects.
Evidence suggests that sertraline may कार्य बेहतर than fluoxetine ( prozac ) लिये some subtypes of depression.
उपचार of दहशत विकार साथ sertraline परिणाम in a significant घटी of the क्रमांक of panic attacks and in improved quality of life.
For obsessive-compulsive विकार, sertraline is नहीं as प्रभावी as संज्ञानात्मक behavioral चिकित्सा ; the बेहतरीन परिणाम have महरूम achieved by combining these two treatments.
हालांकि स्वीकृत लिये सोशल phobia और posttraumatic तनाव विकार, sertraline leads to only modest improvement in these conditions.
Sertraline also alleviates the लक्षण of premenstrual dysphoric विकार और can be प्रयुक्त in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment.
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of अन्य ssris, साथ ऊँची दरों of मतली, अतिसार, अनिद्रा, और यौन पक्ष प्रभाव ; however, it करता नहीं कारण weight gain, and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women taking sertraline, the ड्रग थी उपस्थित in significant एकाग्रता in fetal रक्त, और थी भी संबद्ध with a higher rate of various birth defects.
similarly to अन्य antidepressants, the उपयोग of sertraline लिये अवसाद may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality.
The Five heartbeats is a 1991 musical नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by रॉबर्ट टाउनसेंड, जो co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans.
वितरित by 20th सदी फॉक्स, the फिल्मी 's प्रमुख डाल शामिल टाउनसेंड, माइकल राइट, Leon Robinson, Harry J. Lennix, Tico Wells, Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers, and Diahann Carroll.
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the जीवनदान of अनेक कलाकारों : the dells, the temptations, चार टॉप, विल्सन पिकेट, जेम्स भूरा, फ्रेंकी lymon, sam cooke और others ) follows the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats.
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the आँखें of the फिल्मी 's प्रमुख समर्थक, डोनाल्ड `` बतख '' matthews ( portrayed by टाउनसेंड ), जो serves as a narrator throughout the फिल्मी.
However, a बहुमत of the सिनेमा is प्रस्तुत in a लगातार समय लकीर as opposed to traditional flash backs.
The film includes a significant राशि of असली म्यूज़िक conceived by विभिन्न कलाकारों लिये the फिल्मी 's साउंडट्रैक, सहित singles ऐसे as `` a दिल is a हाउस लिये प्रेम ``, `` we have n't समाप्त Yet '', and `` Nothing But Love ''.
The film was released to most North American ऑडियंस कूच 29, 1991 however it थी नहीं बना उपलब्धियाँ to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary.
the फिल्म प्राप्त मिश्रित reviews from critics.
Secretariat ( कूच 30, 1970 – अक्तूबर 4, 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), और the belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — रिकॉर्ड कि स्टिल stand today.
He is माना to be एक of the महानतम thoroughbreds of सब time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th सदी, the उच्चतम रैंकिंग racehorse on the सूची url_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The blood-horse 's सूची of the शीर्ष 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by बिंदास शासक आउट of somethingroyal, by princequillo.
He was foaled at the मर्ग in कैरोलीन काउंटी, Virginia.
Like his प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती man o ' युद्ध, सचिवालय थी a विशाल शाहबलूत टट्टू और थी given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल क्राउन विजेता सिएटल Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey रॉन turcotte, साथ साथ प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल फेलिसियानो ( पहला दो दौड़ ), और दिग्गज एडी मेपल ( पिछला रेस ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत checkered रंगों and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, और weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
A ठेठ 12 v, 40 ah lead-acid car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable बैटरी कि आपूर्तियाँ इलेक्ट्रिक उर्जा to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting, lighting, प्रज्वलन ) to शक्ति the प्रारंभ मोटर, the लाइट्स, और the प्रज्वलन प्रणाली of a vehicle’s engine.
ऑटोमोटिव sli बैटरी हैं प्रायः lead-acid प्रकार, और हैं बना of छह गैल्वानी cells in series to provide a 12 volt system.
Each कोशिका provides 2.1 volts लिये a कुल of 12.6 volt at full charge.
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors, often equipped साथ डीज़ल इंजन, may have दो बैटरी in श्रेणी लिये a 24 वोल्ट प्रणाली, or may have समानांतर स्ट्रिंग्स of batteries.
lead-acid बैटरी हैं बना up of प्लेटों of सीसे और पृथक प्लेटों of सीसे डाइऑक्साइड, जिससे are submerged into an electrolyte solution of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water.
This कल्याणकारी a रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया कि रिलीज electrons, allowing उन्हें to प्रवाह through conductors to produce electricity.
As the battery discharges, the एसिड of the electrolyte प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ the सामग्री of the प्लेटों, changing their surface to lead sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the chemical प्रतिक्रिया is reversed : the सीसे सल्फेट reforms into सीसे डाइऑक्साइड and lead.
With the प्लेटों लौटी to उनके असली कंडीशन, the process may now be repeated.
Battery recycling of automotive बैटरी reduces the need लिये संसाधन जरूरी लिये manufacture of नई बैटरी, diverts विषाक्त सीसे from landfills, and prevents risk of improper disposal.
Full-time employment is employment in which a व्यक्ति works a न्यूनतम क्रमांक of घंटों पारिभाषित as ऐसे by his/her employer.
Full-time employment often comes with लाभ कि हैं नहीं typically offered to part-time, अस्थाई, or लचीली मजदूर, ऐसे as सालाना छोड़, sickleave, and health insurance.
Full-time कार्य हैं प्रायः माना करियर.
They generally अदा अधिक than part-time कार्य, और प्रायः carry more hours per week.
The Fair Labor मानकों अधिनियम ( flsa ) करता नहीं define full-time employment or part-time employment.
इस is a पदार्थ generally to be संकल्पित by the employer ( US Department of Labor ).
The परिभाषा by नियोक्ता can vary और is generally प्रकाशित in a company 's Employee Handbook.
Companies commonly आवश्यकता इससे 30–35 or 40 घंटों प्रति सप्ताह to be defined as full-time and therefore eligible for benefits.
full-time औकात varies between कम्पनी और is प्रायः आधारित on the शिफ़्ट the employee must work during each work week.
The `` standard '' कार्य सप्ताह consists of पाँच eight-hour दिनों, commonly परोसा between 9:00am to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
While a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour दिनों ; it may भी consist of as छोटी as नौ घंटों लिये a कुल of a 36 घंटा कार्य सप्ताह.
Twelve-hour shifts are often तीन दिनों प्रति सप्ताह, जबतक the कम्पनी रै the इरादे of paying आउट the कर्मचारी overtime.
Overtime is legally सशुल्क आउट anytime an कर्मचारी works अधिक than 40 घंटों per week.
The विधिक न्यूनतम लिये ओवरटाइम starts at Base Pay + One-Half.
The increased भुगतान is माना to compensate थोड़ा लिये the increased fatigue which a person experiences on such long shifts.
Shifts can also be very irregular, as in खुदरा, लकिन हैं स्टिल full-time if the जरूरी क्रमांक of घंटों is पहुँचे.
There are some situations where a person who needs full-time कार्य is dropped to part-time, जिससे is sometimes a रूप of constructive dismissal to avoid paying बेरोजगारी benefits to a laid-off worker.
Seahorse is the title दिए to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री मछली in the genus Hippocampus.
`` हिप्पोकैम्पस '' आता इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` घोड़ा '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक ड्रग गाली रोकथाम and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the संघीय u.S. ड्रग नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग और distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the नेशनल implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the विभिन्न schedules, हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित लिये गाली ( an अपरिभाषित पद ), फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा उपयोग in उपचार in the संयुक्त राज्य, और अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties.
माया numerals
Maya numerals हैं a vigesimal ( आधार - बीस ) numeral system used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization.
The numerals are made up of three symbols ; zero ( shell आकार ), एक ( a बिन्दु ) और पाँच ( a बार ).
For example, thirteen is written as तीन dots in a आड़ा पंक्ति ऊपर दो आड़ा लाइनों stacked above each other.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as lbj, थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ), a स्थिति he assumed बाद उसके service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four लोगों जो परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : Representative, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a संयुक्त राज्य प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961, सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960, जॉनसन थी पूछा by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate लिये the 1960 अध्यक्षीय election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on नवम्बर 22, 1963, समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही, जीतना by a विशाल हाशिया over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld सिविल अधिकारों, पब्लिक प्रसारण, medicare, medicaid, पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा, सहायता to शिक्षा, और उसके `` युद्ध on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार, '' उसके coercion of शक्तिशाली politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated अमरीकी भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध, इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट troops in early 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down.
The भागीदारी stimulated a विशाल एंग्री antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer दंगे broke आउट in सबसे प्रमुख शहरों बाद 1965, और अपराधों दरों soared, as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया मांगे for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक, he ended उसके बोली लिये reelection.
Republican रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to सफल उसे.
Historians argue कि जॉनसन 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the शिखर of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the संयुक्त States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is क्रमित favorably by कुछ इतिहासकारों क्युकी of his domestic policies.
प्रोजेस्टेरोन भी ज्ञात as p4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a c-21 स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन शामिल in the मादा menstrual cycle, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species.
Progesterone belongs to a क्लास of हार्मोन पुकारा progestogens, और is the प्रमुख naturally occurring human progestogen.
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ तिल Street.
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) लम्बा उज्जवल primrose-yellow बर्ड.
He can roller skate, बर्फ स्केट, नृत्य, गाओ, लिखें काव्य, चित्रण और भी सवारी a unicycle.
But despite this wide array of talents, he is prone to बारंबार misunderstandings, on एक अवसर भी गायन the वर्णमाला as एक बिग long शब्द ( इससे the सोंग पुकारा `` abc-def-ghi, '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering what it could ever mean.
He lives in a large nest पीछे the 123 तिल गली brownstone और रै a टेडी भालू नामित Radar.
Webtrends is a निजी कम्पनी headquartered in पोर्टलैंड, ऑरेगॉन, United States.
It provides वेब, सोशल, और मोबाईल analytics और अन्य software solutions related to marketing intelligence.
The company was founded in 1993 और अभी serves अधिक than 10,000 विशाल और छोटी कड़s. < संदर्भ name='intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
the दूसरी crusade ( 1145–1149 ) थी the second major crusade launched from Europe.
The Second Crusade was प्रारंभ in जवाब to the पतन of the काउंटी of edessa the पिछला साल to the forces of Zengi.
The काउंटी था महरूम संस्थापित दौरान the पहला crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098.
While it was the first जेहादी राज्य to be संस्थापित, it थी भी the first to fall.
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene III, and was the पहला of the क्रूसेड to be led by यूरोपीय किंग्स, namely लुई सात of फ़्रांस और कोनराड iii of जर्मनी, साथ सहायता इससे a क्रमांक of other European nobles.
the सेना of the दो किंग्स marched separately across Europe.
बाद क्रासिंग बीज़ान्टिन territory into आनातोलिया, दोनो सेना यहूद separately defeated by the Seljuq Turks.
The main Western Christian source, Odo of Deuil, and Syriac Christian sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' प्रगति, विशेषकर in आनातोलिया जहाँ he is कथित to have deliberately ordered turks to आक्रमण उन्हें.
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their armies reached Jerusalem and, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised आक्रमण on दमिश्क.
The crusade in the ईस्ट थी a विफलता लिये the crusaders और a ग्रेट विजय लिये the Muslims.
It होता ultimately have a कुंजी influence on the पतन of जेरूसलम और दे वृद्धि to the Third Crusade at the end of the 12th century.
The only success of the दूसरी crusade आए to a संयुक्त फ़ोर्स of 13,000 फ्लेमिश, frisian, Norman, English, Scottish, and German crusaders in 1147.
Travelling from England, by ship, to the Holy Land, the army stopped and helped the छोटी ( 7,000 ) पुर्तगाली फौज in the कैप्चर of लिस्बन, expelling इसके मूरिश occupants.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as Walmart, is an American बहुराष्ट्रीय खुदरा निगम कि रनों जंजीरों of विशाल छूट विभाग स्टोर्स और गोदाम स्टोर्स.
The company is the world 's third largest पब्लिक निगम, according to the सौभाग्य वैश्विक 500 सूची in 2012, the biggest निजी नियोक्ता in the संसार साथ over दो लाख कर्मचारी, और is the largest retailer in the world.
Walmart remains a family-owned business, as the कम्पनी is नियंत्रित by the वाल्टन परिवार, जो अपना a 48 प्रतिशत हिस्सेदारी in Walmart.
It is भी एक of the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान companies.
The कम्पनी थी संस्थापित by sam वाल्टन in 1962, incorporated on अक्तूबर 31, 1969, and publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972.
It is headquartered in bentonville, अरकंसास.
Walmart is भी the largest किराना रिटेलर in the United States.
In 2009, it उत्पन्न 51 प्रतिशत of इसके us $ 258 अरब बिक्री in the u.S. इससे grocery business.
It also owns and operates the sam 's क्लबों खुदरा warehouses in उत्तर अमेरिका.
By 1988, wal-mart थी the सबसे लाभप्रद रिटेलर in the us, और by November 1990, it outsold K-mart.
By 1991 it outsold Sears in खुदरा, बनाना it अमेरिका 's largest रिटेलर, a भेद it still holds.
Walmart रै 8,500 स्टोर्स in 15 देशों, अंतर्गत 55 different names.
The company operates अंतर्गत the walmart नाम in the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित the 50 states and Puerto Rico.
It operates in Mexico as walmex, in the संयुक्त किंगडम as asda, in जापानी as Seiyu, and in India as Best Price.
It रै wholly स्वामित्व परिचालन in अर्जेंटीना, Brazil, and Canada.
Walmart 's investments बाहर उत्तर अमेरिका have था मिश्रित परिणाम : इसके परिचालन in the संयुक्त किंगडम, दक्षिण अमेरिका, और चीन हैं अत्यधिक कामयाब, whereas ventures in Germany and South Korea were unsuccessful.
Robert William Gary मूर ( 4 अप्रैल 1952 – 6 फ़रवरी 2011 ), थी a उत्तरी आयरिश संगीतकार, सबसे widely recognised as a singer and guitarist.
In a career dating back to the 1960s, Moore निभाई साथ कलाकारों सहित फिल lynott और ब्रायन downey दौरान उसके किशोर, अग्रणी उसे to सदस्यताएँ साथ the आयरिश bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions.
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock luminaries as b.b. किंग, अल्बर्ट किंग, कोलोसियम ii, जार्ज हैरिसन और ग्रेग झील, as खूब as having a successful solo career.
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high प्रोफ़ाइल संगीतकारों, सहित a कैमियो रूप playing the सीसे गिटार सोलो on `` वो 's my baby `` इससे traveling wilburys आवाज़. 3.
an उदाहरण of रैक आरोहित servers
A web hosting service is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals और संगठन to मेक their website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by क्लाइंट, as खूब as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a आंकड़ा बीच.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the अंतरजाल लिये अन्य सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा बीच, पुकारा colocation, भी ज्ञात as आवास in लैटिन अमेरिका or फ़्रांस.
The scope of web होस्टिंग सेवाएं varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग, जहाँ फाइलें can be अपलोड via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are प्रायः वितरित to the वेब `` as is '' or साथ minimal processing.
Many Internet service providers ( isps ) प्रस्ताव इस सेवा फ़्री to सदस्य.
Individuals and संगठन may भी obtain वेब पेज होस्टिंग इससे वैकल्पिक service providers.
Personal web साईट होस्टिंग is typically फ़्री, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the आकार और प्रकार of the जालस्थल.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient लिये निजी वेब पृष्ठों.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and अनुप्रयोग विकास प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g. पीएचपी, जावा, माणिक्य on rails, coldfusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums और सामग्री प्रबन्धन.
भी, सुरक्षित sockets परत ( एसएसएल ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or कंट्रोल फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट, as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल and service applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger कंपनियाँ कि outsource संजाल infrastructure.
Obstetrics ( from the लैटिन obstare, `` to स्टैंड by '' ) is the चिकित्सा specialty dealing साथ the परवाह of सब महिलाओं 's reproductive tracts और उनके children during pregnancy ( prenatal period ), childbirth and the postnatal period.
Many obstetricians हैं भी स्त्रीरोग, अर्थ वे perform in both specialties.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, ये physicians हैं commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
The Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912 ), यहूद दो अमरीकी भाइयो, आविष्कारक, और विमानन pioneers जो यहूद credited साथ inventing और भवन the संसार 's पहला कामयाब वायुयान और बनाना the पहला नियंत्रित, संचालित और sustained heavier-than-air human flight, on December 17, 1903.
From 1905 to 1907, the brothers developed उनके उड़ती यंत्र into the पहला व्यावहारिक fixed-wing aircraft.
Although not the first to निर्माण और मक्खी प्रायोगिक वायुयान, the राइट भाइयो यहूद the पहला to इफ़तेरा aircraft controls that made fixed-wing powered flight possible.
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was their आविष्कार of three-axis कंट्रोल, जिससे सक्रिय the पायलट to steer the वायुयान effectively and to maintain its equilibrium.
इस विधि became मानक और remains मानक on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds.
From the beginning of their aeronautical work, the राइट भाइयो केन्द्रित on विकासशील a विश्वसनीय विधि of पायलट कंट्रोल as the कुंजी to solving `` the flying problem ''.
This approach differed significantly from other experimenters of the समय जो put अधिक जोर on विकासशील शक्तिशाली इंजन.
Using a छोटी homebuilt हवा टनल, the wrights भी एकत्रित अधिक सटीक आंकड़ा than कोई पहले, enabling उन्हें to डिज़ाइन and build wings and propellers that were more efficient than any before.
Their first U.S. patent, 821,393, did not claim invention of a उड़ती यंत्र, लकिन बल्कि, the आविष्कार of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated a flying machine 's surfaces.
They gained the mechanical skills essential for their success by working लिये सालो in उनके दूकान साथ मुद्रण दबाता, साइकिल, मोटर्स, and other machinery.
उनके कार्य साथ साइकिल in particular बहकावे उनके विश्वास कि an अस्थिर गाडी जैसे a flying machine could be controlled and balanced with practice.
इससे 1900 जबतक उनके पहला संचालित फ़्लाइट in लेट 1903, वे conducted extensive glider tests that also developed their skills as pilots.
Their bicycle shop कर्मचारी चार्ली टेलर became an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the टोली, भवन उनके पहला वायुयान engine in close collaboration with the brothers.
The राइट भाइयो ' औकात as आविष्कारक of the वायुयान रै महरूम विषय to counter-claims by various parties.
Much controversy persists over the अनेक स्पर्धा दावा of early aviators.
America 's Next Top Model, Cycle 12 is the twelfth cycle of अमेरिका 's अगला शीर्ष मॉडल और the छठे ऋतु to एयर on The CW network.
It premiered on कूच 4, 2009.
The cycle 's catch phrase is `` मिलेंगी in the मोड़ें. ''
the साईकिल 's promotional सोंग is महिला गागा 's `` The Fame ''.
the पुरस्कार लिये this cycle are:
A मॉडलिंग अनुबंध साथ elite मॉडल Management.
A fashion spread and कवर in सत्रह.
A 100,000 अनुबंध साथ covergirl cosmetics.
the पहला हाफ of the साईकिल took प्लेस in नई यॉर्क नगर, चलती the दिखाएँ वापस from Los Angeles last season.
The international गंतव्य लिये इस साईकिल is são पाउलो, ब्राज़ील, the श्रेणी पहला visit to South America.
the क्रमांक of लड़कियों थी घटाया to 13, the पहला समय चूंकि साईकिल 9, बाद होने कायम at 14 in the last two cycles.
This was the last समय paulina porizkova participated as judge.
the विजेता थी 20-year-old teyona एंडरसन from Woodstown, New Jersey.
This season averaged 4.35 लाख दर्शक per episode.
Exxon mobil निगम, or exxonmobil, is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय आयल और गैस निगम headquartered in Irving, Texas, United States.
It is a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's मानक आयल कम्पनी, और थी formed on नवम्बर 30, 1999, by the विलय of Exxon and Mobil.
It is affiliated with इम्पीरियल आयल जिससे operates in कनाडा.
ExxonMobil is the संसार 's largest कम्पनी by आय और in 2013, became the largest publicly traded company by market capitalization in the world.
The company is ranked # 5 globally in फोर्ब्स वैश्विक 2000 सूची in 2013.
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the समाप्त of 2007 और, at तब ( 2007 ) दरों of उत्पादन, are expected to last over 14 years.
With 37 oil refineries in 21 देशों constituting a संयुक्त रोज़ शोधन क्षमता of, exxon mobil is the largest refiner in the world, a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870.
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors साथ रोज़ उत्पादन of 3.921 लाख boe ( barrels of आयल equivalent ).
In 2008, इस थी लगभग 3 % of संसार उत्पादन, जिससे is कम than several of the largest state-owned petroleum companies.
जब क्रमित by आयल और गैस reserves it is 14th in the संसार साथ कम than 1 % of the total.
A 2012 article in the रोज़ टेलीग्राफ says कि exxonmobil रै `` grown into एक of the planet’s most hated corporations, able to determine American foreign policy and the fate of entire nations ''.
In terms of its environmental record, ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to उन्हें by dictatorships, ऐसे as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s chief executive until 2005, was `` notoriously sceptical परिचय जलवायु बदलें और disliked सरकारी interference at any level ''.
The company was widely criticized लिये इसके slow जवाब to सफ़ाई इसके 1989 valdez oil spill in Alaska.
इस आलेख is परिचय the ग्लोब थिएटर of Shakespeare.
For the modern reconstruction in लंदन, देखिए शेक्सपियर 's Globe.
For अन्य उपयोग, देखिए ग्लोब थिएटर ( बहुविकल्पी ).
The Globe Theatre was a थिएटर in लंदन संबद्ध साथ विलियम Shakespeare.
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing कम्पनी, the रब चेम्बरलेन 's मेन, on जमीन स्वामित्व by थामस brend और inherited by उसके बेटे, निकोलस brend और पोता सर Matthew Brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613.
A दूसरी ग्लोब थिएटर थी निर्मित on the वही साईट by June 1614 and closed in 1642.
A modern reconstruction of the Globe, named `` Shakespeare 's ग्लोब ``, खोली in 1997 लगभग इससे the साईट of the असली theatre.
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed by Frank capra, आधारित on the छोटी स्टोरी `` the महानतम तोहफा ``, जिससे फिलिप वैन doren stern लिखा in 1939 और privately published in 1945.
The film is माना एक of the सबसे loved films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और रै become परंपरागत देखने दौरान the क्रिसमस season, alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol.
The film stars जेम्स स्टीवर्ट as जार्ज बेली, a man जो रै दिए up उसके सपनो in अनुक्रम to सहायता अन्य और जिनकी imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings about the intervention of his guardian angel, Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ).
Clarence shows George all the जीवनदान he रै छुआ और कैसा अलग जीवन in उसके जातियाँ of bedford जलप्रपात would be had he never been born.
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high उत्पादन लागत और stiff प्रतियोगिता at the समय of इसके रिलीज, the फिल्मी रै आइये to be regarded as a क्लासिक और is a स्टेपल of Christmas television around the world.
theatrically, the फिल्मी 's break-even पाइंट थी दरअसल $ 6.3 लाख, लगभग twice the उत्पादन cost, a figure it never came close to achieving in its initial release.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the complete box office failure that today everyone believes... it was initially a major disappointment और पुष्टि, at तनिक to the studios, कि capra थी no longer सक्षम of turning आउट the populist सुविधाएँ कि बना उसके films the must-see, money-making events they once were. ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100 best American films ever made, रखकर क्रमांक 11 on इसके आरंभिक 1998 महानतम फिल्म सूची, और होता भी प्लेस क्रमांक एक on इसके सूची of the सबसे प्रेरणादायक अमरीकी films of all time.
Data गोदाम अवलोकन
In computing, a आंकड़ा गोदाम or एंटरप्राइज़ आंकड़ा गोदाम ( dw, dwh, or edw ) is a database used for reporting and data analysis.
It is a central repository of data which is created by integrating आंकड़ा इससे एक or अधिक disparate स्त्रोत.
Data warehouses store वर्तमान as खूब as ऐतिहासिक आंकड़ा और हैं प्रयुक्त लिये बनाना trending reports for senior management reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons.
The data stored in the warehouse हैं अपलोड इससे the operational प्रणालियों ( ऐसे as विपणन, बिक्री etc., दिखाया in the फिगर to the right ).
The data may pass through an operational आंकड़ा स्टोर लिये अतिरिक्त परिचालन पहले वे हैं प्रयुक्त in the dw लिये रिपोर्टिंग.
The typical ETL -आधारd आंकड़ा गोदाम उपयोग स्टेजिंग, आंकड़ा संयोजन, और अभिगम परतों to हाउस its key functions.
the स्टेजिंग परत or स्टेजिंग डेटाबेस स्टोर्स raw data extracted from each of the disparate source data systems.
The integration layer integrates the disparate आंकड़ा सेट by transforming the आंकड़ा इससे the स्टेजिंग परत प्रायः storing इस रूपांतरित आंकड़ा in an operational data store ( ODS ) database.
The integrated data are then स्थानांतरित to yet another डेटाबेस, प्रायः पुकारा the आंकड़ा गोदाम डेटाबेस, जहाँ the आंकड़ा is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate facts.
the संयोजन of तथ्य और आयाम is sometimes called a star schema.
The access layer helps उपयोक्ता retrieve आंकड़ा.
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data source प्रणालियों करता नहीं आवश्यकता etl, स्टेजिंग databases, or operational आंकड़ा स्टोर databases.
The integrated data source प्रणालियों may be माना to be a भाग of a वितरित operational data store layer.
Data federation methods or data आभासीकरण विधि may be प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the वितरित एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों to consolidate और कुल आंकड़ा सीधे into the data warehouse database tables.
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse, the integrated source data systems and the data warehouse are सब एकीकृत चूंकि वहीँ is no परिवर्तन of आयामी or सन्दर्भ आंकड़ा.
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the drill down इससे the कुल आंकड़ा of the आंकड़ा गोदाम to the transactional आंकड़ा of the एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा systems.
आंकड़ा warehouses can be subdivided into data marts.
Data marts store subsets of आंकड़ा इससे a warehouse.
This परिभाषा of the आंकड़ा गोदाम focuses on data storage.
The main source of the data is cleaned, transformed, cataloged and made available for use by managers and other business professionals for data mining, online विश्लेषणात्मक प्रसंस्करण, मार्केट शोध और निर्णय support ( marakas & o'brien 2009 ).
However, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform and load data, और to मैनेज the आंकड़ा शब्दकोष हैं भी माना अनिवार्य components of a आंकड़ा warehousing system.
Many references to आंकड़ा warehousing उपयोग इस broader कॉन्टेक्स्ट.
Thus, an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence टूल्स, टूल्स to निकालें, रूपांतरण और लोड आंकड़ा into the repository, और टूल्स to मैनेज और retrieve मेटाडेटा.
पोर्टलैंड स्टोन पाषाण on the आइल of Portland, England
An abandoned निर्माण कुल पाषाण near Adelaide, South Australia
A पाषाण is a प्रकार of open-pit मेरा from which rock or minerals are extracted.
Quarries are generally used for extracting भवन सामग्री, ऐसे as आयाम स्टोन, निर्माण कुल, riprap, बालू, और gravel.
They are often collocated साथ कंक्रीट और डामर पौधे due to the आवश्यकता लिये विशाल amounts of aggregate in those materials.
Open mines that produce minerals हैं typically referred to as खोलें pit mines.
the शब्द पाषाण can शामिल भूमिगत quarrying लिये स्टोन, such as Bath stone.
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to Mormonism, the प्रिंसिपल शाखा of the latter दिन संत गति of restorationist christianity, जिससे began साथ the visions of जोसेफ स्मिथ in upstate New York during the 1820s.
बाद स्मिथ 's मौत in 1844 the mormons followed Brigham Young to what would become the Utah Territory.
Today Mormons are समझा to be सदस्यों of the गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ).
Some Mormons हैं भी either स्वतंत्र or non-practicing.
The center of Mormon cultural influence is in Utah, and उत्तर अमेरिका रै अधिक mormons than कोई अन्य महाद्वीप, हालांकि the बहुमत of mormons सजीव बाहर the संयुक्त States.
Mormons have विकसित a दमदार भाव of communality कि तना इससे उनके doctrine and history.
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a central geographic स्थान, और between 1852 और 1890 a अल्पसंख्यक of mormons खुलकर practiced बहुवचन विवाह, a रूप of religious polygamy.
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and resources to सेवारत in उनके गिरिजाघर, और अनेक यंग mormons चुनें to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
Mormons have a health code कि eschews alcoholic पेय, तम्बाकू, कॉफी, चाय, और अन्य addictive substances.
They tend to be बहुत family-oriented, और have दमदार कनेक्शन्स आरपार पीढियां और साथ विस्तारित परिवार, परावर्तक of उनके belief that families can be sealed together beyond death and throughout eternity.
Mormons also have a strict law of शुद्धता, requiring abstention इससे यौन संबंध बाहर of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage.
Mormons self-identify as ईसाई, हालांकि कुछ of their beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity.
Mormons believe in the Bible, as well as other books of scripture, ऐसे as the किताब of mormon.
They have a अद्वितीय दृश्य of cosmology, और मानना कि all people are spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to परमेश्वर requires following the उदाहरण of यीशु मसीह, और accepting his atonement through ordinances such as baptism.
They believe that Christ 's church was restored through जोसेफ स्मिथ, और is हिदायत by living prophets and apostles.
Central to Mormon faith is the विश्वास कि परमेश्वर बोलती to उसके children और जवाब their prayers.
In वित्तीय हिसाब, एसेट are economic resources.
Anything tangible or intangible that is सक्षम of होने स्वामित्व or नियंत्रित to उपज मान और कि is आयोजित to have positive economic value is considered an asset.
Simply stated, एसेट represent मान of स्वामित्व कि can be परिवर्तित into cash ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ).
The संतुलन चादर of a कड़ रिकॉर्ड the monetaryj.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. shim, `` the बनियान जेब cpa '', wiley, 2005.there हैं अलग विधि of assessing the monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet.
In some cases, the Historical Cost is used ; such that the मान of the एसेट जब it थी खरीदा in the पास्ट is प्रयुक्त as the मौद्रिक value.
In other instances, the उपस्थित मेला मार्केट मान of the एसेट is प्रयुक्त to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
value of the एसेट स्वामित्व by the firm.
It is धन और अन्य valuables belonging to an individual or business.
Two major asset वर्ग हैं ठोस एसेट और intangible एसेट.
Tangible assets contain विभिन्न subclasses, सहित current assets and fixed assets.J.
Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` शब्दकोष of वित्त & निवेश शर्तें '', सामन्त 's वित्तीय मार्गदर्शिका, 2003 वर्तमान एसेट शामिल inventory, जबकि फिक्स्ड एसेट शामिल ऐसे वस्तुएं as इमारतें और उपकरण.J. downes, j.e. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
intangible एसेट हैं nonphysical संसाधन और अधिकारों कि have a value to the firm because they give the firm some kind of advantage in the market place.
Examples of intangible एसेट हैं साख, copyrights, trademarks, patents और कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम, और वित्तीय assets, including such items as accounts receivable, bonds and stocks.
A neuron ( or ; also ज्ञात as a neurone or तंत्रिका कोशिका ) is an electrically excitable कोशिका कि प्रक्रियाओं और transmits information through electrical and chemical signals.
A रासायनिक सिग्नल occurs via a अन्तर्ग्रथन, a specialized connection with other cells.
Neurons connect to each अन्य to रूप neural संजाल.
Neurons are the core components of the nervous प्रणाली, जिससे शामिल the दिमाग, स्पाइनल cord, और परिधीय ganglia.
A number of specialized types of न्यूरॉन्स मौजूद : संवेदी न्यूरॉन्स respond to टच, ध्वनि, लाइट और numerous अन्य stimuli affecting cells of the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain.
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain and spinal cord, कारण मांसपेशी contractions, और affect glands.
Interneurons connect neurons to other न्यूरॉन्स भीतर the वही प्रदेश of the दिमाग or spinal cord.
A typical neuron possesses a कोशिका देह ( प्रायः पुकारा the सोम ), dendrites, and an axon.
Dendrites are thin structures that arise from the cell body, प्रायः extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres और branching अनेक टाइम्स, giving वृद्धि to a जटिल `` dendritic tree ''.
An axon is a special सेल्यूलर एक्सटेंशन कि arises इससे the कोशिका देह at a साईट पुकारा the axon उभरकर और ट्रेवल्स लिये a अलहदा, as दूर as 1 मीटर in humans or even more in other species.
The cell body of a न्यूरॉन अक्सर देता वृद्धि to अनेक dendrites, लकिन never to अधिक than एक axon, although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates.
at the बहुमत of synapses, सिग्नल are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another.
There are, however, many अपवाद to ये नियम : न्यूरॉन्स कि कमी dendrites, न्यूरॉन्स कि have no axon, synapses कि कनेक्ट an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All neurons are electrically excitable, maintaining वोल्टेज अनुपात आरपार उनके झिल्लियों by अर्थात् of metabolically चलित आयन पंपों, जिससे combine साथ आयन चैनल्स अंतःस्थापित in the झिल्ली to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium, potassium, chloride, and calcium.
Changes in the cross-membrane वोल्टेज can alter the फलन of voltage-dependent ion channels.
If the voltage changes by a large enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical पल्स पुकारा an कार्रवाई संभावित is उत्पन्न, जिससे ट्रेवल्स rapidly साथ the कोशिका 's axon, और activates सिनेप्टिक कनेक्शन्स with other cells when it arrives.
Neurons do नहीं undergo कोशिका प्रभाग.
In most cases, neurons हैं उत्पन्न by खास प्रकार of स्टेम कोशिकाएं.
Astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have भी महरूम observed to फेरे into न्यूरॉन्स by पुण्य of the स्टेम कोशिका characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases दौरान adulthood—but in दो दिमाग क्षेत्रों, the हिप्पोकैम्पस और घ्राण बल्ब, there is strong evidence for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons.
Super Bowl XLIII was an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स और the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियन एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season.
The Steelers defeated the कार्डिनल्स by the स्कोर of 27–23.
The game थी निभाई on फ़रवरी 1, 2009, at रेमंड जेम्स Stadium in Tampa, Florida.
With this win, the स्टीलर्स became the पहला टोली to जीत छह सुपर Bowls.
Pittsburgh, जो समाप्त the नियमित ऋतु साथ a 12–4 रिकार्ड, भी जीती उनके दूसरी सुपर कटोरी in चार सालो बाद जीतना सुपर Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season.
The Cardinals entered the game seeking their first NFL शीर्षक चूंकि 1947, the longest चैंपियनशिप सूखा in the league.
The club became an अनपेक्षित विजेता दौरान the नियमित ऋतु, compiling a 9–7 रिकार्ड, और the playoffs साथ the सहायता of सिर कोच केन whisenhunt, जो थी the स्टीलर्स ' अप्रिय समन्वयक in सुपर कटोरी xl, and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner, who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team, St. Louis Rams.
Pittsburgh कूद to a 17–7 मध्यांतर सीसे, aided by linebacker जेम्स हैरिसन 's सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
trailing 20–7 at the प्रारंभ of the चौथी क्वार्टर, एरिज़ोना scored 16 अनुत्तरित अंक, सहित wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception, to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game.
But the Steelers marched 78 yards to score on चौड़ी receiver santonio holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
Holmes, who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown, सहित चार receptions लिये 73 गज on कि फाइनल game-winning ड्राइव, थी नामित सुपर Bowl MVP.
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the पुरस्कार, और भी थी the तीसरा पिट्सबर्ग receiver to जीत the पुरस्कार, following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward.
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount of आनुषंगिक festivities कि हैं सामान्यतः आयोजित पहले the खेल, the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न संजाल ब्रॉडकास्ट आकर्षित an औसत u.S. दर्शक of 98.7 लाख viewers, making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point.
A diagram of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम, प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the दायरा of बारंबारता and wavelengths
The इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of सब संभावित बारंबारता of electromagnetic radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a अलग अर्थ, और is बजाय the characteristic वितरण of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण उत्सर्जित or अवशोषित by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of किलोमीटर down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the ब्रह्मांड itself, जबकि it is विचार कि the छोटी wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम हैं प्रयुक्त in विज्ञान लिये spectroscopic और अन्य probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, विकिरण इससे विभिन्न भाग of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला अनेक अन्य uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ).
लेजेंड
marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes ( जमीन पौधे ) कि do नहीं have सच्चा vascular ऊतक और हैं इसलिए पुकारा ' non-vascular पौधे '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized ऊतकों लिये the हस्तांतरण of जल ; however चूंकि ये do not contain lignin, they are not considered to be true vascular tissue.
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic समूह ; however the नाम is सुविधाजनक और remains in उपयोग as a सामूहिक पद लिये mosses, hornworts, and liverworts.
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia और sporangia ), लकिन वे उपज neither पुष्प nor बीज, reproducing via बीजाणुओं.
The term bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant ''.
A bank is a financial संस्था और a वित्तीय intermediary कि स्वीकृत जमा और चैनल्स those जमा into lending क्रियाएँ, either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A bank is the connection between customers that have पूंजी deficits और ग्राहक साथ capital surpluses.
Due to their influence भीतर a वित्तीय प्रणाली और an अर्थव्यवस्था, बैंको हैं generally highly regulated in most countries.
Most banks operate under a system known as fractional reserve बैंकिंग जहाँ वे थाम तभी a छोटी आरक्षित of the निधि deposited और lend आउट the बाकी लिये profit.
They are generally विषय to न्यूनतम पूंजी आवश्यकताएँ जिससे हैं आधारित on an अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियत of capital standards, known as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena, headquartered in सियेना, इटली, जिससे रै महरूम ऑपरेटिंग लगातार चूंकि 1472.
It is followed by berenberg बैंको of हैम्बर्ग ( 1590 ) और Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ).
बैंकिंग in इसके आधुनिक भाव विकसित in समृद्ध शहरों of पुनर्जागरण Italy, such as Florence, Venice and Genoa.
In the history of banking, a number of banking dynasties —among उन्हें notably medici, fugger, welser, berenberg, baring और रोथ्सचाइल्ड —have निभाई a सेंट्रल भूमिका over many centuries.
The एक्सबॉक्स is a वीडियो खेल कंसोल manufactured by Microsoft.
It was released on November 15, 2001 in North America, फ़रवरी 22, 2002 in जापानी, और कूच 14, 2002 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया and Europe.
It was Microsoft 's पहला foray into the गेमिंग कंसोल मार्केट.
As part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the Xbox competed साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2, sega 's dreamcast ( जिससे रोका अमरीकी बिक्री before the Xbox went on sale ), and Nintendo 's GameCube.
The Xbox थी the पहला कंसोल offered by an अमरीकी कम्पनी बाद the atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996.
The integrated Xbox Live सेवा शुभारम्भ in नवम्बर 2002 अनुमत खिलाड़ी to खेल games online with a broadband connection.
It first competed साथ dreamcast 's ऑनलाइन सेवा लकिन बाद primarily competed with PlayStation 2 's online service.
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription, as well as broadband-only connection which was not completely adopted yet, एक्सबॉक्स सजीव थी a कामयाबी due to बेहतर सर्वर, सुविधाएँ ऐसे as a दोस्त सूची, और पड़ाव शीर्षक जैसे हेलो 2 released in नवम्बर 2004, जिससे is the best-selling एक्सबॉक्स वीडियो खेल और was by far the most popular online game for years.
एक्सबॉक्स 's successor, the एक्सबॉक्स 360, was launched in November 2005.
The Xbox was discontinued in लेट 2005 in जापानी जहाँ बिक्री यहूद poor.
It was discontinued in लेट 2006 in यूरोपीय और जल्दी 2007 in North America.
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's Project 8 released in नवम्बर 2006, और the पिछला खेल in उत्तर अमेरिका थी मैडेन एनएफएल 09 released in August 2008.
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2, 2009, stating कि कोई in-warranty मरम्मत अभी needed होगा नहीं be undertaken.
Xbox access to एक्सबॉक्स सजीव थी रोका on अप्रैल 15, 2010.
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the इन्जील of जॉन or बस जॉन और प्रायः referred to in नई वसीयत स्कॉलरशिप as the चौथी इन्जील, is an खाता of the पब्लिक मंत्रालय of Jesus.
It begins साथ the गवाह और प्रतिज्ञान by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट और concludes साथ the मौत, दफ़न, resurrection, and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus.
This account is चौथी of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics Matthew, Mark and Luke.
states that the book गर्भाशयी इससे the गवाही of the ' शिष्य जिसको Jesus loved. '
Along with Peter, the unnamed disciple is विशेषकर बंद to यीशु, और early-church परंपरा पहचाना उसे as John the Apostle, one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles.
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such कि टीकाकारों दावत the चार किताबे साथ, yet, according to सबसे आधुनिक विद्वानों, जॉन थी नहीं the author of any of these books.
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more और अधिक रै लगाई जॉन भीतर a first-century Jewish context.
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to trace the development of the परंपरा इससे जिससे the इन्जील arose.
The discourses seem to be चिंतित साथ the वास्तविक मुद्दे of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written.
It is notable कि, in the इन्जील, the जातियाँ स्टिल appears to define itself primarily विरूद्ध judaism, बल्कि than as part of a wider Christian church.
Though Christianity started as a गति भीतर judaism, धीरे ईसाइयों and Jews became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, अर्थ कि it describes यीशु as the अवतार of the दैवी लोगो through जिसको सब बाते यहूद बना, as the ऑब्जेक्ट of veneration, और अधिक explicitly as God incarnate.
Only in John does Jesus बात at लंबाई परिचय खुद और उसके दैवी भूमिका, प्रायः साझा साथ the शिष्यों only.
Against the synoptics, John focuses largely on अलग चमत्कार ( सहित resurrecting lazarus ), दिए as signs meant to engender faith.
Synoptic elements such as parables और exorcisms हैं नहीं मिला in John.
It presents a एहसास eschatology in जिससे मोक्ष is already उपस्थित for the believer.
The Plagues of Egypt ( ), also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, were टेन calamities कि, according to the biblical किताब of exodus, इसराईल 's परमेश्वर, yahweh, inflicted upon मिश्र to राजी pharaoh to रिलीज the ill-treated Israelites from slavery.
Pharaoh capitulated बाद the दसवाँ प्लेग, triggering the exodus of the Jewish people.
The plagues were designed to कंट्रास्ट the शक्ति of yahweh साथ the नपुंसकता of Egypt 's various gods.
Some commentators have associated several of the plagues with judgment on specific देवताओं संबद्ध साथ the nile, प्रजनन और प्राकृतिक phenomena.
the plagues of मिश्र हैं भी mentioned in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the Book of Exodus, God proclaims that all the gods of मिश्र होगा be judged through the दसवाँ और फाइनल plague:
John Martin 's painting of the प्लेग of hail और आग ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which खिलाड़ी assume the भूमिकाएँ of वर्ण in a fictional सेटिंग.
Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a narrative, either through शाब्दिक एक्टिंग or through a प्रक्रम of संरचित decision-making or character development.
Actions taken within many games सफल or असफल according to a औपचारिक प्रणाली of नियम और दिशानिर्देश.
There हैं अनेक फ़ॉर्म of RPG.
The original form, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through चर्चा, whereas in सजीव कार्रवाई role-playing खेल ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions.
In both of these forms, an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides on the नियम और सेटिंग to be प्रयुक्त और अधिनियमों as रेफरी, जबकि प्रत्येक of the अन्य खिलाड़ी plays the भूमिका of a सिंगल character.
Several varieties of RPG also exist in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मीडिया, ऐसे as multi-player text-based muds और उनके graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ).
Role-playing games also include single-player ऑफ़लाइन role-playing वीडियो खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी कंट्रोल a अक्षर or टोली जो undertake quests, और may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics.
These games often share जमावट और नियम साथ tabletop rpgs, लकिन emphasize अक्षर उन्नति अधिक than collaborative storytelling.
Despite this variety of फ़ॉर्म, कुछ खेल फ़ॉर्म ऐसे as व्यापार कार्ड खेल और wargames कि are related to role-playing games may not be included.
Role-playing activity may sometimes be उपस्थित in ऐसे खेल, लकिन it is not the primary focus.
The term is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe लिए सिमुलेशन खेल और exercises used in teaching, training, and academic research.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ( acw ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the western territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four सालो of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई Confederate States of America.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the southern economy.
The Eastern थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
In the Western थिएटर, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War थी एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार युद्ध I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
The definition of the संसार 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र रै महरूम निर्दिष्ट by the एयरपोर्ट Council International in Geneva, Switzerland.
The ACI defines और उपायों the following तीन प्रकार of airport traffic:
यात्री ट्रैफ़िक : कुल यात्री emplaned और deplaned, passengers in transit counted once
कार्गो ट्रैफ़िक : loaded और मोड भाड़ा and mail in metric tonnes
ट्रैफ़िक आंदोलनों : अवतरण and take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, और the पहला संसार युद्ध or संसार War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest युद्धों in इतिहास.
More than 9 million combatants यहूद मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
अधिक तत्काल, the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला छोटी until 1917.
On the पूर्वी सामने, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In नवम्बर the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
the युद्ध ended in विजय for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद.
The successor states of the former two lost a ग्रेट राशि of territory, जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
The मैप of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे विरोध.
the यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill, the BP oil disaster, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and the Macondo blowout ) थी an आयल spill in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको on the bp -operated macondo prospect, माना the largest आकस्मिक समुद्री आयल spill in the इतिहास of the पेट्रोलियम उद्योग, अनुमानित to be between 8 % और 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill.
Following the explosion and sinking of the deepwater क्षितिज आयल रिग, जिससे claimed 11 जीवनदान, a sea-floor आयल gusher flowed unabated for 87 days, until it was capped on 15 July 2010.
The कुल निर्वहन is अनुमानित at.
A massive response ensued to protect beaches, वेटलैंड्स और मुहानों इससे the spreading आयल utilizing skimmer जहाजों, फ्लोटिंग booms, controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant.
After several failed प्रयत्न to contain the प्रवाह, the खूब थी घोषित sealed on 19 September 2010.
Some reports indicate the well साईट continues to leak.
Due to the months-long spill, along with adverse प्रभाव इससे the जवाब और क्लीनअप क्रियाएँ, extensive क्षति to समुद्री और वन्यजीव habitats, फ़िशिंग और पर्यटन उद्योग, और इंसान स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं have जारी through 2013.three years after the spill, tar balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast.
Numerous investigations छान the कल्याणकारी of the विस्फोट और record-setting spill.
Notably, the U.S. government 's September 2011 रपट pointed to defective सीमेंट on the खूब, faulting ज़्यादातर bp, लकिन भी खूब ऑपरेटर transocean और contractor Halliburton.
पहले in 2011, a श्वेत हाउस आयोग likewise blamed bp और इसके साझेदार लिये a श्रेणी of cost-cutting निर्णय और an अपर्याप्त सुरक्षा प्रणाली, लकिन भी concluded कि the spill resulted from `` systemic '' root causes and `` absent significant reform in both industry practices and government policies, might well recur ''.
In November 2012, BP and the United States Department of इंसाफ settled संघीय दण्ड आरोप साथ bp pleading अपराधी to 11 रिश्तो of manslaughter, दो misdemeanors, और a felony count of lying to Congress.
BP also agreed to four years of government monitoring of its सुरक्षा practices और आचार, और the पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा एजेंसी घोषित that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government.
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines and other payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude जबतक 2014 हैं जारी to determine payouts और जुर्माना अंतर्गत the साफ जल अधिनियम और the प्राकृतिक संसाधन क्षति मूल्यांकन.
As of फ़रवरी 2013, दण्ड और सिविल settlements और भुगतान to a विश्वास निधि था लागत the कम्पनी $ 42.2 billion.
`` Where the Streets Have No नाम '' is a सोंग by चट्टान बैंड u2.
It is the opening track from their 1987 album the जोशुआ पेड़ और थी released as the एल्बम 's तीसरा सिंगल in अगस्त 1987.
The song 's hook is a repeating गिटार arpeggio using a विलंब प्रभाव, निभाई दौरान the सोंग 's introduction and again at the end.
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the ख़्याल कि it is संभावित to पहचानो a व्यक्ति 's धर्म और आय आधारित on the गली on जिससे वे जिया, विशेषकर in Belfast.
During the band 's difficulties recording the song, producer Brian Eno considered erasing the सोंग 's टेपों to have उन्हें प्रारंभ इससे खरोंच.
`` जहाँ the गलियों have no नाम '' थी praised by आलोचकों और became a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, peaking at क्रमांक तेरह in the US, number fourteen in Canada, number ten in the Netherlands, and number four in the United Kingdom.
The song has become one of the band 's सबसे लोकप्रिय गीतों और रै remained a स्टेपल of उनके सजीव अधिनियम चूंकि the सोंग debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour.
The song was notably performed on a Los एंजिल्स छत लिये the फिल्मांकन of इसके म्यूज़िक वीडियो, जिससे जीती a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन म्यूज़िक वीडियो.recently the सोंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
थामस जेफरी `` tom '' हैंक्स ( born July 9, 1956 ) is an American actor, producer, writer, and director.
Hanks is known for उसके भूमिकाएँ in अपोलो 13, बिग, कि Thing You Do !
, The Green Mile, You 've Got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, Charlie Wilson 's War, Catch Me If तुम can, फॉरेस्ट गंप, डाल दूर, a लीग of उनके अपना, the da विंची कोड, फ़रिश्ते & राक्षसों, as खूब as एनिमेटेड films जैसे the खिलौना Story film series, The Polar Express, and The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned and been nominated for numerous पुरस्कार दौरान उसके करियर, सहित जीतना a सुनहरी ग्लोब लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता और an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका in फिलाडेल्फिया और a सुनहरी Globe, an Academy Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump, and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004.
Hanks is also known लिये उसके सहयोग साथ फिल्मी निदेशक स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग on छायांकन निजी रयान और the mini-series बैंड of Brothers, which launched Hanks also as a successful director, producer and writer.
As of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 अरब at the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर अलोन, और over $ 8.5 अरब विश्वव्यापी making him the highest all-time box office star.
The Cape is an अमरीकी सुपरहीरो नाटक series.
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season बदलना शुरूआत साथ a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on संडे, January 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time.
An encore played on Monday, January 10, साथ follow-up एपीसोड continuing on सोमवार evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
NBC subsequently cut the total number of episodes to be aired इससे 13 to 10 as a परिणाम of low ratings.
On कूच 2, 2011, एनबीसी घोषित कि the श्रेणी finale होता तभी be aired on the network 's website.
Halley 's धूमकेतु or धूमकेतु हैली ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly दृश्य to the नग्न नजर इससे धरती, और यूँ the तभी naked-eye धूमकेतु कि might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be उज्जवल और अधिक spectacular, लकिन होगा appear only once in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed और अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि at तनिक 240 bce.
Clear records of the धूमकेतु 's दिखावे यहूद बना by चाइनीज, babylonian, और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers, but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity थी पहला संकल्पित in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is now named.
हैली 's धूमकेतु पिछला appeared in the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational आंकड़ा on the ढांचा of a धूमकेतु केंद्रक और the यांत्रिकी of coma and tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, particularly Fred Whipple 's `` गंदा स्नोबॉल '' मॉडल, जिससे correctly पूर्वानुमानित कि हैली होता be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – ऐसे as जल, कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और अमोनिया – और धूल.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured ये विचार ; लिये उदाहरण it is अभी समझा कि हैली 's सतह is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
The following is a list of the सबसे populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त States of America.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations, including city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) हैं भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि शामिल the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, शामिल अनेक incorporated स्थान.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of ऐसे संचित city-counties कि हैं नहीं a part of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined हद, जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident जब considering u.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a कोर समूह of separatists, to New England.
उनके स्टोरी is एक of travail और अस्तित्व in a harsh New World environment.
A New Zealand forward ( in white ) takes a शॉट on लक्ष्य विरूद्ध कैमरून in the 2011 फीफा u-20 संसार Cup.
Forwards, also known as strikers, हैं the खिलाड़ी on a टोली in संघ फ़ुटबॉल जो खेल निकटतम to the opposing टोली 's लक्ष्य, and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals.
This very advanced position and its limited defensive जिम्मेदारियों औसत आगे सामान्यतः स्कोर अधिक लक्ष्य than अन्य players.
This position requires प्रज्ञा, गति, और शक्ति, दोनो of निष्पादन और of thought, to perform the role well.
Modern team formations प्रायः शामिल एक to तीन forwards ; two is the most common.
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an advanced स्थिति ( the केन्द्र आगे ), और another attacking आगे जो plays somewhat deeper और assists in बनाना लक्ष्य as खूब as स्कोरिंग ( the दूसरी स्ट्राइकर ).
It should be noted that inside आगे develop इससे attacking midfield स्थितियाँ and hence are naturally midfielders.
बार्सिलोना fc स्टार लियोनेल मेस्सी is a ठेठ attacking मिडफील्डर seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy.
A California घरेलू साझेदारी is a विधिक संबंध उपलब्धियाँ to same-sex युगल, और to निश्चित opposite-sex युगल in which at least one party is at least 18 years of age.
It affords the couple `` the same rights, protections, and benefits, and... the same जिम्मेदारियों, दायित्वों, और कर्तव्य अंतर्गत विधि... '' as married spouses.
Enacted in 1999, the domestic partnership registry थी the पहला of इसके दयालु in the संयुक्त राज्य निर्मित by a विधानमंडल बगैर court intervention.
Initially, घरेलू partnerships enjoyed बहुत few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation अधिकारों और the सही to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner.
The legislature has since expanded the scope of California domestic partnerships to शामिल सब of the अधिकारों और जिम्मेदारियों आम to विवाह.
As such, कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू partnerships हैं functionally समतुल्य to civil unions offered in several other states.
Although the कार्यक्रम enjoys व्यापक support in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, it रै महरूम the source of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex परिवारों have challenged the विस्तार of घरेलू partnerships in court.
Conversely, advocates of same-sex विवाह contend कि anything कम than पूरा विवाह अधिकारों विस्तारित to same-sex साझेदार is analogous to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era.
Mark A. जैक्सन ( born अप्रैल 1, 1965 ) is an अमरीकी बास्केट कोच, और पूर्व खिलाड़ी जो is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA.
A point guard from St. John 's University, he played for the New York Knicks, Indiana Pacers, Los एंजिल्स क्लिपर्स, डेनवर टेंडर्स, टोरंटो रैपटर्स, यूटा जैज़ और ह्यूस्टन rockets in the एनबीए in a करियर spanning from 1987 to 2004.
Jackson has also worked as a commentator लिये ईएसपीएन और एबीसी alongside उसके पूर्व कोच जेफ़ वैन gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen.
He was previously an NBA विश्लेषक लिये the यस संजाल 's नई जर्सी Nets games.
South Africa has eleven official भाषाएं : अफ्रीकी, अंग्रेज़ी, ndebele, उत्तरी sotho, sotho, swazi, tswana, Tsonga, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu.
Fewer than two percent of दक्षिण africans बोलो a पहला भाषा other than an official one.
सबसे दक्षिण africans can बोलो अधिक than one language.
Dutch and अंग्रेज़ी यहूद the पहला आधिकारिक भाषाएं of South Africa from 1910 to 1925.
Afrikaans was added as a भाग of डच in 1925.
Dutch was replaced by अफ्रीकी जब दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी became a गणतंत्र in 1961, और डच थी dropped in 1983, so between 1983 और 1994, दक्षिण Africa had two official languages : English and Afrikaans.
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those भाषाएं : isizulu, isixhosa, अफ्रीकी, sepedi ( referring to उत्तरी sotho ), setswana, अंग्रेज़ी, sesotho ( referring to दक्षिणी sotho ), xitsonga, siswati, tshivenda और isindebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ).
In South Africa, दक्षिणी ndebele is ज्ञात बस as ndebele, as सबसे अध्यक्षों of उत्तरी Ndebele live in Zimbabwe.
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to उत्तरी sotho as sesotho sa leboa, लकिन the 1996 संस्करण referred to the भाषा as Sepedi.
Different government departments और आधिकारिक लाशें उपयोग अलग terms to denote Northern Sotho.
The main भाषा of सरकारी is अंग्रेज़ी भी if दक्षिण africans प्रायः take pride in using indigenous languages for any purpose.
Afrikaans also features prominently in कॉमर्स साथ साथ अंग्रेज़ी as the भाषाएं साथ the उच्चतम number of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English.
In terms of भाषाई वर्गीकरण, the आधिकारिक भाषाएं शामिल दो west-germanic भाषाएं ( English and Afrikaans ) and nine Bantu languages.
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu, Xhosa, Swati and ndebele ) और तीन हैं sotho–tswana भाषाएं ( उत्तरी sotho, दक्षिणी sotho and Tswana ).
Tsonga is a tswa–ronga भाषा.
South African Sign Language is a distinct though incompletely उभरा नेशनल मानक भाषा जिससे भी subsumes a क्लस्टर of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric acid, existing सामान्यतः as a crystalline हाइड्रेट, सबसे commonly as एल्युमिनियम नाइट्रेट nonahydrate, Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
The New York jets हैं a पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल टोली headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The team is a member of the Eastern Division of the American Football सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
In a unique व्यवस्था लिये the लीग, the jets share metlife स्टेडियम in ईस्ट रदरफोर्ड, New Jersey with the New York Giants.
The franchise is legally and corporately पंजीकृत as नई यॉर्क jets, LLC.
The team was founded in 1959 as the टाइटन्स of नई यॉर्क, an असली सदस्य of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल लीग ; बाद, the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger.
The team began to खेल in 1960 at the Polo Grounds.
Under new ownership, the current name was adopted in 1963 and the मताधिकार थी relocated to shea स्टेडियम in 1964 और तब to the meadowlands खेल जटिल in 1984.
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in सुपर कटोरी iii जहाँ वे पराजित the बाल्टीमोर कोल्टस, बनने the पहला afl टोली to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game.
Since 1968, the Jets have appeared in the playoffs तेरह टाइम्स, और in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार टाइम्स, सबसे recently खोने to the पिट्सबर्ग Steelers in 2010.
However, the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl, making उन्हें एक of तीन एनएफएल टीमों to जीत उनके लोन सुपर कटोरी रूप, साथ साथ the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो and Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
The team 's training facility, अटलांटिक स्वास्थ्य jets प्रशिक्षण बीच, जिससे खोली in 2008, is स्तिथ in florham Park.
The team currently holds उनके सालाना प्रशिक्षण शिविर सत्र on the कैम्पस of the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई यॉर्क at cortland in cortland, New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex.
psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms, also ज्ञात as साइकेडेलिक मशरूम, हैं fungi कि contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin मशरूम, the सबसे आम होने shrooms and magic mushrooms.
Biological genera containing psilocybin मशरूम शामिल agrocybe, conocybe, copelandia, galerina, gerronema, gymnopilus, hypholoma, inocybe, Mycena, Panaeolus, Pluteus, and Psilocybe.
There are approximately 190 species of psilocybin मशरूम और सबसे of उन्हें पतन in the genus psilocybe.
psilocybin मशरूम have संभावित महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्रागैतिहासिक times and may have been depicted in rock art.
Many संस्कृतियों have प्रयुक्त ये मशरूम in धार्मिक rites.
In modern Western society they are प्रयुक्त recreationally लिये उनके साइकेडेलिक effects.
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns हॉपकिंस स्कूल of आयुर्विज्ञान conclude कि जब प्रयुक्त properly, psilocybin अधिनियमों as an anti-depressant as सुझाया by fMRI brain scans.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the उत्तरपश्चिम extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप, साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट, the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर, और the प्रशांत समंदर to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th तनिक populous और the तनिक densely आबादी of the 50 संयुक्त States.
Approximately half of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों सजीव भीतर the anchorage महानगर area.
Alaska 's economy is वर्चस्व by the आयल, प्राकृतिक गैस, और फ़िशिंग उद्योग ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) at लगभग दो सेंट प्रति एकड़ ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes before बनने an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, और the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it was used only for the peninsula and is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or, अधिक वस्तुतः, `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also ज्ञात as alyeska, the `` ग्रेट जमीन '', an aleut शब्द derived from the same root.
The 101 French departments are divided into 342 arrondissements, जिससे may be अनूदित into English as districts.
The capital of an arrondissement/district is पुकारा a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the विभाग, कि प्रीफ़ेक्चर is the पूंजी of the arrondissement, एक्टिंग दोनो as a प्रीफ़ेक्चर and as a subprefecture.
Arrondissements are further divided into cantons और communes.
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna, वस्तुतः `` म्यान '' or `` म्यान `` ) is a tubular ट्रैक्ट जिससे is a sex अंग और has two main functions ; sexual intercourse and childbirth.
In humans, इस ड्योढ़ी लीड इससे the खोलने of the भग to the गर्भाशय ( womb ), but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix.
नापसंद मेन, जो have तभी एक genital orifice, महिलाओं have दो, the urethra and the vagina.
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral खोलने, और दोनो उद्घाटन are protected by the labia.
The inner mould of the योनि रै a foldy बनावट जिससे can बनाएँ friction for the penis during intercourse.
During arousal, the योनि gets नम to सुकर the प्रवेश of the शिश्न.
the latinate बहुवचन `` vaginae '' is rarely used in English.
Colloquially, the word vagina is often प्रयुक्त to refer to the भग or to the female genitals in general.
However, by its शब्दकोष और anatomical परिभाषाएं, योनि refers exclusively to the specific internal structure.
The सिनसिनाटी लाल हैं a प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल team based in Cincinnati, Ohio.
They हैं सदस्यों of the नेशनल लीग Central Division.
Established in 1881 as an स्वतंत्र क्लबों, the टोली became a चार्टर सदस्य of the अमरीकी संघ in 1882, and joined the National League in 1890.
The club traditionally traces इसके उत्पत्ति to बेसबॉल 's पहला खुलकर professional team in 1869.
The Reds have won five World Series titles, one अमरीकी संघ pennant, नौ नेशनल लीग pennants और टेन division titles.
The लाल निभाई in the नेशनल लीग वेस्ट between 1969 और 1993 और have महरूम in the National League Central since 1994.
Since 2003, the Reds have played at ग्रेट अमरीकी बॉल पार्क, निर्मित अगला to उनके घर इससे 1970 to 2002, Riverfront Stadium.
Bob castellini रै स्वामित्व the सिनसिनाटी Reds since 2006.
a शरारत बदबू bomb.
A stink bomb is a यंत्र designed to बनाएँ an अप्रिय महकते.
They range in प्रभावकारिता इससे सरल pranks to सैन्य ग्रेड malodorants or riot control chemical agents.
The गिनीज किताब of रिकॉर्ड सूचियाँ दो smelliest substances.
One is `` US Government Standard Bathroom Malodor '' ; a mixture of आठ रसायन साथ a stench resembling इंसान मल, तभी much stronger, designed to परीक्षण the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners.
Another one, `` Who me ? ``, is a मिश्रण of पाँच sulfur-containing रसायन और खुश्बू जैसे rotting खाना और carcasses.
The adage `` A picture is worth a हजार शब्द '' refers to the ख़्याल कि a जटिल विचार can be conveyed with just a single still image.
It also aptly characterizes one of the main goals of कल्पना, namely बनाना it संभावित to अवशोषित विशाल amounts of आंकड़ा जल्दी.
The अभिव्यक्ति `` उपयोग a चित्र.
It 's worth a thousand words. '' appears in a 1911 समाचारपत्र आलेख quoting समाचारपत्र एडिटर आर्थर ब्रिसबेन discussing पत्रकारिता and publicity.
1913 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन
A similar phrase, `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the piqua स्वचालित सप्लाई हाउस of piqua, Ohio.
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper advertisement for the San Antonio Light which says : One of the स्वदेश 's महानतम सम्पादक says : एक चित्र is लायक a हजार शब्द the सैन अंतोनियो लाइट 's सचित्र पत्रिका of the युद्ध exemplifies the सच्चाई of the ऊपर बयान -- judging इससे the गरम रिसेप्शन it रै प्राप्त at the हैंड्स of the Sunday Light readers.
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the विज्ञापन व्यापार जर्नल मुद्रक ' स्याही, promoting the उपयोग of बिंब in विज्ञापन कि appeared on the पहलू of streetcars.
The December 8, 1921 issue carries an ad हकदार, `` एक dekh is लायक a हजार Words. ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 समस्या साथ the phrase `` एक चित्र लायक टेन हजार शब्द, '' जहाँ it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The Home Book of Proverbs, maxims, और परिचित वाक्यांश उद्धरण बर्नार्ड as saying he पुकारा it `` a Chinese proverb, so that people would take it seriously. ''
Soon after, the कहावत होता become popularly attributed to Confucius.
The discussion of `` एक चित्र लायक हजार शब्द '' बनाम `` एक चित्र लायक टेन हजार शब्द '' wan येन i hua और 10.000 मील लायक 10.000 किताबे is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures.
A चित्र is लायक a हजार words
Despite this modern origin of the popular phrase, the भावना रै महरूम expressed by पहले लेखक.
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev लिखा ( in fathers और बेटे in 1862 ), `` a चित्र shows me at a glance कया it takes dozens of pages of a book to expound. ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an opposite बयान regarding प्रोग्रामिंग in the mythical man-month : `` दिखाएँ me अपना flowcharts और छिपाते अपना टेबल, और i shall continue to be mystified.
Show me अपना टेबल, और i won’t प्रायः need अपना flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John मैकार्थी, the प्रसिद्ध कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक, to मेक the विपरीत पाइंट : `` as the चाइनीज कह, 1001 words is worth more than a picture. ''
A season is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in मौसम, पारिस्थितिकी, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the वार्षिक क्रान्ति of the धरती around the सूर्य और the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष सापेक्ष to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of धूप कि पहुँच the धरती 's सतह, विसंगतियाँ of जिससे may कारण पशु to go into शीतनिष्क्रियता or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern गोलार्ध is उजागर to अधिक सीधा धूप क्युकी the hemisphere faces the sun.
The वही is सच्चा of the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in November, December and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be उच्चतर in the आसमान दौरान the गर्मियाँ महीने जिससे increases the सौर flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and August are the hottest months in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर, जनवरी और फ़रवरी हैं the hottest महीने in the दक्षिणी hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based seasons ( with उनके adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ), गर्मियाँ ( estival ), पतझड़ ( autumnal ) और शीत ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six ऋतु मॉडल लिये शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or मानसून ) ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु, और in कुछ तीव्र क्षेत्रों, a कूल or mild season.
In some भाग of the संसार, खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological सीज़न
The four calendar seasons, चित्रित in an प्राचीन रोमन मोज़ेक from Tunisia
डच निर्यात in 2006
At the समय of लिखने the नीदरलैंड्स is the 17th largest economy of the world.
( देखिए : सूची of देशों by GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP प्रति capita is roughly $ 42,000 जिससे puts it in the शीर्ष 10 of richest राष्ट्र in the संसार ( see : List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) per capita ).
Between 1996 और 2000 सालाना आर्थिक विकास ( जीडीपी ) averaged over 4 %, well above the European average.
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as भाग of the वैश्विक आर्थिक slowdown.
2006 और 2007 however दिखाया आर्थिक growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the जारी वैश्विक वित्तीय crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis.
Several बैंको गई दिवालिया, और a क्रमांक of अन्य था to receive governmental aid.
In 2009 the economy declined साथ 3.5 %, followed by दो सालो of mild growth.
The डच अर्थव्यवस्था is फिलहाल in a मंदी again, with an economic decline of 0.5 % in 2012.
महंगाई is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013.
Unemployment has been अपेक्षाकृत कम compared to अन्य eu राष्ट्र लिये दशकों लकिन बाद mid-2012 it रै देखी a तेज़ बढ़ाएँ और in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 %.
The Netherlands प्रबंधित to maintain इसके aaa दरजा at तनिक जबतक कूच 2013 according to the तीन प्रमुख credit rating agencies.
Historically, the Dutch introduced and invented the भण्डार मार्केट by the merchandise व्यापार through डच वेस्ट India Company.
the नीदरलैंड्स is a founding सदस्य of the यूरोपीय संघ, the OECD and the World Trade Organization.
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio एल्बम और छठे स्टुडियो एल्बम by तुपाक shakur.
It contains remixes of previously unreleased म्यूज़िक अंकित by shakur पहले उसके मौत in 1996.
Released in the United States on December 14, 2004 ( दिसम्बर 12 in the संयुक्त किंगडम ), वफ़ादार to the Game was produced by Eminem.
The original panel of The View ; Meredith Vieira, Star जोन्स, डिब्बी matenopoulos और बारबरा walters in 1997.
The View is an अमरीकी बात दिखाएँ ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी कि debuted in 1997 as भाग of the network 's daytime programming block.
निर्मित by बारबरा walters और विधेयक geddie, जो दोनो भी serve as the दिखाएँ 's कार्यपालिका निर्माता, the program features a panel of women as co-hosts.
Along with Walters, the current फलक शामिल whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, जो serves as the मॉडरेटर, आनन्द behar, एलिज़ाबेथ hasselbeck, और Sherri Shepherd.
International versions of the कार्यक्रम हैं aired in अनेक देशों.
As of the 2012–13 season, its 16th, The View is the fourth-longest कार्यशील नेशनल दिन बात दिखाएँ in इतिहास, पीछे the फिल donahue दिखाएँ ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
कार्यक्रम ( 25 ), और the ओपरा विनफ्रे Show ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly पुकारा bitter-berry, chokecherry, वर्जिनिया बर्ड चेरी और पश्चिमी chokecherry ( भी ब्लैक chokecherry लिये P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a प्रजाति of बर्ड चेरी ( prunus subgenus Padus ) native to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent, except for the far north and far south.
Los Angeles International Airport is the primary airport serving the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, the second-most आबादी महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
It is most often referred to by इसके iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड lax, साथ the अक्षर सुनाया individually.
LAX is located in southwestern लॉस एंजिल्स साथ the प्रशांत coast in the पड़ोस of westchester, इससे the शहर कोर और is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र of लॉस एंजिल्स World Airports ( LAWA ), an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the संसार बाद hartsfield-jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, बीजिंग पूंजी अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, लंदन हीथ्रो विमानक्षेत्र, शिकागो o'hare अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, और Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers.
The airport holds the अर्जी लिये `` the संसार 's व्यस्ततम उत्पत्ति और गंतव्य ( o & d ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 कि involves non-connecting passenger traffic.
It is also the तभी विमानक्षेत्र to रैंक among the शीर्ष पाँच u.S. एयरपोर्ट लिये दोनो passenger and cargo traffic.
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area, but other एयरपोर्ट सहित bob आशा विमानक्षेत्र, जॉन वेन विमानक्षेत्र, long बीच विमानक्षेत्र, la/ontario अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, और ताड़ Springs International Airport also serve the region.
LAX is also the busiest airport in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the वेस्ट coast of the संयुक्त राज्य in शर्तें of उड़ान परिचालन, यात्री ट्रैफ़िक और एयर कार्गो कार्यकलाप, leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim ``.
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24, 1976 ) is an American football quarterback for the डेनवर broncos of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
He played for the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस लिये 14 सीज़न इससे 1998 to 2011.
He is the son of former NFL क्वार्टरबैक आर्ची मैनिंग और an elder bhai of नई यॉर्क दिग्गज quarterback Eli Manning.
Manning played college football for the University of टेनेसी, अग्रणी the स्वयंसेवक to the 1997 सेक चैंपियनशिप in उसके वरिष्ठ season.
However, No. 3 Tennessee lost to the No. 2 Nebraska cornhuskers 42-17 in the नारंगी कटोरी giving नेब्रास्का और tom ओसबोर्न उनके 3rd नेशनल चैंपियनशिप in 4 years.
He was चुनी by the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस साथ the पहला overall चुनें in the 1998 NFL Draft.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the Colts to eight ( seven AFC South and one AFC East ) division championships, दो afc championships, और to a सुपर कटोरी चैंपियनशिप ( Super Bowl XLI ).
He has won a record four league most valuable player awards, was the most valuable player of Super Bowl xli, रै महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो प्याले, रै बारह 4,000-yard गुजर सीज़न, और is the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस ' all-time नेता in गुजर गज ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ).
In 2009, he was named the best खिलाड़ी in the एनएफएल और फॉक्स खेल साथ साथ खेल illustrated नामित उसे the एनएफएल player of the decade of the 2000s.
In May 2011, he underwent गर्दन सर्जरी to alleviate गर्दन पीड़ा और भुजा कमज़ोरी he dealt साथ दौरान the पिछला few सीज़न पहले हस्ताक्षर a five-year, $ 90 million contract extension with the Colts in July 2011.
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 season, but in सितंबर 2011, he underwent a much अधिक गंभीर दूसरी सर्जरी : a स्तर एक सर्वाइकल fusion procedure.
Manning had never छूटी an एनएफएल खेल in उसके करियर, लकिन थी मजबूर to miss the entire 2011 season.
He was released by the कोल्टस on कूच 7, 2012, और बाद an लगभग two-week काल जहाँ he visited साथ और worked out for several NFL teams, he signed with the Denver Broncos on March 20, 2012.
मैनिंग 's pre-snap दिनचर्या रै अर्जित उसे the उपनाम, `` the शेरिफ '' और is एक of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL.
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led to मैनिंग using an सरणी of इशारों और मौखिक कमांड to कॉल the खेल at the लकीर of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
The America मीनार of the अमरीकी सामान्य बीच, the headquarters of Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes is एक of the संसार 's largest oilfield services companies.
It operates in over 90 देशों, providing the आयल और गैस उद्योग साथ उत्पाद और सेवाएं लिये खुदाई, गठन मूल्यांकन, पूर्णता, production and reservoir consulting.
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower in the अमरीकी सामान्य बीच in neartown, ह्यूस्टन.
Baker ह्यूजेस incorporated थी formed जब बेकर अंतरराष्ट्रीय और ह्यूजेस Tool Company merged in 1987.
Baker Hughes operates विश्वव्यापी साथ प्रमुख कार्यालयों in लिवरपूल, संयुक्त किंगडम ; सिंगापुर ; दुबई ; a शोध और मेंटेनेंस सुविधा in celle, जर्मनी ; lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, Texas ; Pescara, Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The company is administered broadly in दो बांटती : the पूर्वी गोलार्ध साथ पाँच regions ( यूरोपीय, अफ़्रीकी, the मध्य ईस्ट, एशिया प्रशांत और russia/caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada, US Land, US Gulf, and Latin America ).
Each of ये regions is subdivided into markets.
the संयुक्त राज्य one- cent सिक्का, commonly ज्ञात as a penny, is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a United States dollar.
The cent 's प्रतीक is ¢.
Its obverse has featured the profile of अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln चूंकि 1909, the centennial of उसके जनम.
इससे 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of lincoln 's जनम ) to 2008, the reverse featured the Lincoln Memorial.
Four different reverse designs in 2009 सम्मानित lincoln 's 200th जन्मदिवस और a नई, स्थाई रिवर्स – the संघ शील्ड – थी introduced in 2010.
The coin is 0.75 इंच ( 19.05 mm ) in व्यास और 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The U.S. Mint 's official name लिये a पैनी is `` '' और the u.S. राजकोष 's आधिकारिक नाम is `` एक cent टुकड़ा ''.
The colloquial term penny derives इससे the अंग्रेजों सिक्का of the वही नाम, the pre-decimal संस्करण of जिससे था a similar value.
In American English, pennies is the बहुवचन रूप, अन्य बहुवचन फ़ॉर्म पेंस और पेशाब ( मानक उपयोग in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) हैं not used.
As of 2012, it लागत the u.S. मिंट 2.00 सेंट to मेक a cent क्युकी of the cost of materials and production.
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components लिये वितरण और fabrication, अनुमानित at $ 13 लाख in fy 2011.
It also includes Mint overhead आबंटित to the पैनी, जिससे थी $ 17.7 लाख for 2011.
Fixed costs and ओवरहेड होता have to be अवशोषित by अन्य circulating coins without the penny.
The loss in profitability due to producing the एक cent सिक्का in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये the साल of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
This was a slight घटी इससे 2011, the साल पहले, जिससे था a उत्पादन loss of $ 60,200,000.
or अधिक specifically, हैं शोभायमान किस्में of domesticated आम कार्प ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens.
Koi किस्में हैं विशिष्ट by coloration, patterning, and scalation.
कुछ of the प्रमुख रंगों हैं श्वेत, black, red, yellow, blue, and cream.
The most popular category of koi is the Gosanke, जिससे is बना up of the kohaku, taisho sanshoku, और showa sanshoku किस्में.
The American Federation of Government Employees ( afge ) is an अमरीकी मजदूर संघ representing over 650,000 कर्मचारी of the संघीय सरकारी, परिचय 5,000 कर्मचारी of the ज़िला of Columbia, and a few hundred private sector employees, mostly in and around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union for civilian, non- postal federal employees and the largest union लिये ज़िला of कोलंबिया कर्मचारी जो रपट सीधे to the महापौर ( i.e., बाहर of D.C. public schools ).
It is संबद्ध साथ the afl-cio.
a लेट सिल्यूरियन sporangium.
ग्रीन : a spore tetrad.
Blue : a spore bearing a trilete mark – the -shaped scar.
The spores हैं परिचय 30-35 μm आरपार
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing स्तर of जटिलता, इससे the earliest algal मैट्स, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the जटिल gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive, विशेषकर in the environments in जिससे वे विकसित, लिये a समय प्रत्येक नई ग्रेड of संगठन became अधिक `` कामयाब '' than इसके पूर्ववर्तियों.
In the Ordovician period, around, the पहला जमीन पौधे appeared.
These began to diversify in the लेट सिल्यूरियन काल, around, और the परिणाम of उनके diversification हैं प्रदर्शित in उल्लेखनीय विवरण in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert.
This chert preserved early पौधे in सेल्यूलर विवरण, petrified in volcanic springs.
By the middle of the Devonian Period, most of the features recognised in पौधे आज हैं उपस्थित, सहित जड़ें, पत्ते और द्वितीयक लकडी ; और, by लेट devonian times, seeds had evolved.
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a उपाधि of परिष्कार कि अनुमत उन्हें to रूप वनों of tall trees.
Evolutionary innovation जारी into the carboniferous काल और is स्टिल जारी today.
Most संयंत्र समूह यहूद अपेक्षाकृत unscathed by the permo-triassic extinction event, although the structures of communities changed.
This may have नियत the झाँकी लिये the रूप of the flowering पौधे in the triassic ( ~ ), और their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene.
The latest major group of plants to evolve were the grasses, which became महत्वपूर्ण in the mid-paleogene, from around.
The grasses, as well as many other groups, evolved new mechanisms of चयापचय to जीवित the कम और गरम, शुष्क शर्तें of the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध over the पिछला.
The winning Super Bowl टोली receives the विंस लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी.
The Super कटोरी is an सालाना अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल कि determines the champion of the National Football League ( NFL ).
The contest is held in an American नगर कि is चुनी तीन to चार सालो beforehand, usually in warm-weather or domed sites.
Since 1971, the winner of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the विजेता of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( NFC ) Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
Before the 1970 merger between the American Football League ( afl ) और the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ), the दो लीग मिले in चार ऐसे प्रतियोगिताओं.
The first two were ज्ञात as the `` afl-nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप Game. ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first ऐसे खेल कि carried the `` सुपर कटोरी '' moniker, the names `` सुपर कटोरी i `` और `` सुपर कटोरी ii `` यहूद retroactively applied to the first two games.
The NFC /NFL लीड in सुपर कटोरी विन्स साथ 25, जबकि the afc /afL रै won 22.
अठारह अलग franchises, सहित टीमों कि relocated to another city, have won the Super Bowl.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls with छह championships ( रिकार्ड 6–2 ), जबकि दोनो the डलास cowboys और सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers have पाँच विन्स प्रत्येक ( cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas and पिट्सबर्ग have the सबसे सुपर कटोरी दिखावे साथ आठ, जबकि the भैंस बिल्स have the सबसे लगातार दिखावे साथ चार losses in a row from 1990 to 1993.
The New England Patriots, Denver broncos और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स have भी खोया a रिकार्ड four Super Bowls.
Buffalo and Minnesota are both 0–4, Denver is 2–4 और नई इंग्लैण्ड is 3–4.
The record for consecutive wins is two and is साझा by सात franchises : the 1966-67 ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स, the 1972-73 मियामी डॉल्फिन, the 1974-75 और 1978-79 पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स ( the तभी टोली to accomplish इस feat twice ), the 1988-89 सैन Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 Denver Broncos, and the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the बाल्टीमोर ravens, जो in जीतना सुपर कटोरी xlvii unseated और replaced the 49ers in that position.
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a सुपर कटोरी, सहित मताधिकार relocations और renaming : the क्लीवलैंड भूरा, डेट्रॉयट शेर, jacksonville jaguars, और ह्यूस्टन texans, though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl.
मार्टिन काउंटी is a काउंटी स्तिथ in the u.S. state of Texas.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके जनसांख्यिकी was 4,799.
Its सीट is stanton.
the काउंटी is नामित लिये wylie मार्टिन, an early settler.
Martin काउंटी is एक of 30 निषेध, or entirely dry, counties in the state of Texas.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase एंजाइम जिम्मेदार लिये निकालना फास्फेट समूह इससे अनेक प्रकार of अणुओं, सहित nucleotides, प्रोटीन, and alkaloids.
The प्रक्रम of निकालना the फास्फेट group is called dephosphorylation.
As the name suggests, क्षारीय phosphatases हैं सबसे प्रभावी in an क्षारीय environment.
It is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously as basic phosphatase.
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ), ( ) is a संकर of गेहूं ( triticum ) और rye ( secale ) पहला करवाया in laboratories दौरान the late 19th century.
The grain was originally करवाया in स्कॉटलैंड और स्वीडन.
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second generation संकर, i.e., a क्रॉस between दो kinds of प्राथमिक ( पहला क्रॉस ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the उपज संभावित और अनाज विशेषता of गेहूं साथ the बीमारी और पर्यावरणीय सहिष्णुता ( including soil conditions ) of rye.
Only recently has it महरूम विकसित into a commercially viable crop.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can more or less resemble either of इसके अभिभावक.
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder, although कुछ triticale-based भोजन can be खरीदा at स्वास्थ्य खाना स्टोर्स or हैं to be मिला in some breakfast cereals.
When crossing wheat and rye, wheat is used as the मादा जनक और rye as the पुरूष जनक ( pollen donor ).
The resulting hybrid is बंध्य, और जरूर be treated साथ colchicine to induce polyploidy और यूँ the ability to reproduce itself.
The primary producers of triticale हैं कैंडल, जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, बेलारूस और Australia.
In 2009, according to the खाना और कृषि संगठन ( fao ), 15.0 लाख टन यहूद harvested in 29 countries across the world.
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid, जिससे अर्थात् the संयंत्र is द्विगुणित लिये दो genomes derived from different species.
In other शब्द, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In earlier years, most work was done on octoploid triticale.
अलग ploidy स्तर have महरूम निर्मित and evaluated over time.
The tetraploids दिखाया छोटी वादा, लकिन hexaploid triticale was successful enough to find commercial application.
The CIMMYT triticale improvement program चाही to improve खाना उत्पादन और पोषण in विकासशील देशों.
Triticale has potential in the production of ब्रैड और अन्य खाना उत्पाद, ऐसे as कुकीज़, पास्ता, पिज़्ज़ा आटा और नाश्ता cereals.
The protein content is उच्चतर than कि of गेहूं, हालांकि the glutenin भिन्न is less.
The grain has also been stated to have उच्चतर स्तर of lysine than wheat.
Assuming increased acceptance, the मिलिंग उद्योग होगा have to adapt to triticale, as the मिलिंग तकनीकों employed लिये गेहूं हैं मुलम्मा to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be प्रयुक्त as a फीड अनाज, और बाद शोध मिला इसके मंड थी विशेषकर readily digested.
As a feed grain, triticale is already खूब स्थापित और of ऊँची economic importance.
It has received attention as a potential उर्जा क्रॉप, और शोध is फिलहाल होने conducted on the उपयोग of the क्रॉप 's बायोमास in bioethanol production.
`` कश, the जादू ड्रैगन '' is a सोंग लिखा by लियोनार्ड lipton और पीटर yarrow, और बना लोकप्रिय by yarrow 's समूह पीटर, Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording.
The song हासिल ग्रेट लोकप्रियता.
A college football national championship in the उच्चतम स्तर of कॉलेजिएट खेल in the संयुक्त राज्य, फिलहाल the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक संघ ( ncaa ) प्रभाग i फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ), is a नामांकन awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ).
Division I FBS ( formerly प्रभाग i-a ) फ़ुटबॉल is the तभी ncaa खेल in जिससे a वार्षिक चैंपियन is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event.
Because the championship team is not determined by a NCAA चैंपियनशिप or टूर्नामेंट इवेंट, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical नेशनल चैंपियनशिप ``.
Since the ncaa, the खेल 's शासी देह, करता नहीं determine or घोषित a नेशनल champion in this field, determination of such has often engendered controversy.
A चैंपियनशिप टोली is independently घोषित by विभिन्न individuals and organizations, often referred to as `` selectors ''.
ये चुनाव हैं sometimes at odds with each other.
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual championship team, it has documented the चुनाव of अनेक चयनकर्ताओं in the आधिकारिक ncaa फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision रिकॉर्ड.
In addition, various third party विश्लेषकों have independently प्रकाशित उनके अपना सूचियाँ of कया वे have संकल्पित to be the most legitimate selections for each season.
These are also often at odds with each other as well as व्यक्तिगत स्कूल 's दावा on नेशनल championships, जिससे, लिये कोई particular ऋतु, may or may नहीं correlate to the selections published elsewhere.
Currently, two widely recognized national champions चयनकर्ताओं हैं the संबद्ध दबायें, जिससे conducts a पोल of फ़ुटबॉल sportswriters, और the यूएसए आज कोच ' पोल, a पोल of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion.
The Milwaukee Brewers are a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in मिल्वौकी, Wisconsin.
The टोली is a सदस्य of the सेंट्रल प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's National League and plays its home games at Miller Park.
The टोली is so नामित क्युकी of the नगर 's संघ साथ the brewing industry.
The वॉशिंगटन नागरिकों हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली based in Washington, D.C.
The Nationals are a member of the ईस्ट प्रभाग of the नेशनल लीग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( MLB ).
The team 's home ballpark is नागरिकों पार्क, स्तिथ on दक्षिण कैपिटल गली in southeast d.C., निकट the Anacostia River.
the पार्क खोली in 2008, replacing rfk स्टेडियम, the team 's home from 2005 to 2007.
The Nationals ' name गर्भाशयी इससे the पूर्व वॉशिंगटन बेसबॉल टोली कि था the वही नाम ( used interchangeably with Senators ).
Their nickname is `` the nats '' —a shortened संस्करण कि थी भी प्रयुक्त by the बूढ़ा d.C. टीमों.
An expansion franchise, the club was संस्थापित in as the मॉन्ट्रियल expos, the पहला प्रमुख लीग टोली in Canada.
They were based in Montreal, Quebec, और निभाई उनके घर खेल at jarry पार्क स्टेडियम और बाद in ओलम्पिक स्टेडियम.
In, the Expos won a division championship, won their first-ever playoff श्रेणी by defeating the फिलाडेल्फिया फ़िलीज़, 3–2, और उन्नत to the नेशनल लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी, जहाँ वे होता go on to खोना to the लॉस एंजिल्स डॉजर्स, 3–2, in उनके तभी postseason रूप दौरान the strike-shortened season.
The Expos had their highest winning प्रतिशत in the strike-shortened ऋतु of, जब the टोली था the best record in baseball.
The team 's subsequent shedding of खिलाड़ी caused fan interest to drop off.
After the 2001 season, MLB considered revoking the टोली 's मताधिकार, साथ साथ either the मिनेसोटा Twins or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
After being purchased by MLB in 2002, the team was moved before the season to Washington and renamed the नागरिकों, the पहला relocation चूंकि the दूसरी वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to Arlington, Texas, and became the Texas Rangers in.
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises, और the तभी एक in the नेशनल लीग, कि रै never निभाई in a संसार श्रेणी ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ).
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional fee ( in England and Wales ) is कोई शुल्क लिये सेवाएं provided जहाँ the शुल्क is देय तभी if वहीँ is a favourable result.
In the law, it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's सेवाएं तभी if the मुकदमा is कामयाब or is favorably settled out of court....
Contingent fees are प्रायः गणना as a प्रतिशत of the client 's net recovery. ''
In the English legal system, it is generally referred to as no जीत no fee.
A conditional fee अनुबंध between a विधि कड़ और a client.
The usual form of this अनुबंध is कि the solicitor होगा लो a विधि मामला on the समझना कि if lost, no payment is made.
However, if the मामला is जीती, the वकील होगा be हकदार to the सामान्य शुल्क आधारित on hourly billing, plus a success fee.
The कामयाबी शुल्क in इंग्लैण्ड जरूर be as a प्रतिशत no वृहद than 100 % of the normal fee.
This contrasts with the contingency fee in the US, which gives the कामयाब attorney a प्रतिशत of the क्षतिपूर्ति awarded in एहसान of उसके क्लाएंट.
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue उनके सिविल अधिकारों चूंकि वरना, to मुकदमा किसी लिये a अपकृत्य, एक जरूर पहला be धनवान पर्याप्त to pursue ऐसे वाद in the first place.
However, because of the ऊँची रिस्क, few attorneys होगा लो मामले on a आकस्मिकता आधार जबतक वे feel the case has good merit.
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer, contingent fees were allowed as of that year in the following देशों : ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ब्राज़ील, कनाडा, the डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र, फ़्रांस, Greece, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
They are भी अनुमत in निजी चोट क्रियाएँ in Lithuania.
Recently, they have महरूम अनुमत in बेल्जियम as well.
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling साथ ', translating the यूनानी ecclesia ) is a समूह of लोगों formally assembled for a special purpose.
Sons of अराजकता is a टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी निर्मित by कर्ट sutter परिचय the जीवनदान of a close-knit गैरकानूनी motorcycle club operating in Charming, a fictional town in California 's Central Valley.
The show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' teller ( चार्ली hunnam ), the then-vice अध्यक्ष of the क्लबों, जो begins questioning the club and himself.
Sons of अराजकता premiered on सितंबर 3, 2008, on cable network FX.
The third season of the series attracted an औसत of 4.9 लाख दर्शक प्रति सप्ताह, बनाना it fx 's उच्चतम rated series ever, surpassing FX 's other hits The Shield, Nip/Tuck, and Rescue Me.
On February 3, 2012, Sons of अराजकता थी नवीनीकृत लिये दो अतिरिक्त सीज़न, a पांचवां और a sixth.
Those involved in the उत्पादन of the श्रेणी imply कि a सातवाँ और फाइनल ऋतु is creator Kurt Sutter 's plan.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial झीलों ( ; vötn = `` waters '', एकवचन : ) और the ज्वालामुखी of the same name are in South-East Iceland.
They are in the हाइलैंड्स of आइसलैंड at the northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
The lakes are at, at an उन्नयन of.
beneath the झीलों is the मैग्मा कक्ष of the Grímsvötn volcano.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic ज्वालामुखी जिससे रै the उच्चतम फटना आवृत्ति of सब the ज्वालामुखी in Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system.
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure फटना of 1783–1784 थी a भाग of the वही फिशर प्रणाली.
Grímsvötn was erupting at the वही समय as laki दौरान 1783, but continued to erupt until 1785.
क्युकी सबसे of the ज्वालामुखी झूठ underneath vatnajökull, सबसे of इसके eruptions have महरूम subglacial और the बातचीत of magma and meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC, an eruption began, with high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes, resulting in रद्दीकरण of 900 फ़्लाइट in आइसलैंड, और in the संयुक्त किंगडम, ग्रीनलैंड, जर्मनी, Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May.
Until 25 may the फटना स्केल था महरूम larger than कि of the 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallajökull.
the फटना रोका at 02:40 utc on 25 may 2011, हालांकि वहीँ थी कुछ विस्फोटक कार्यकलाप इससे the tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater.
Vetting is the process of performing a पृष्ठभूमि जाँच on किसी पहले offering उन्हें नियुक्ति, डाक्टरेट an award, etc.
A prospective person or प्रोजेक्ट may be vetted पहले बनाना a भर्ती decision.
In addition, in प्रज्ञा महफ़िल, एसेट हैं vetted to determine their usefulness.
पूर्व मुख्यालय और current corporate offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly harrah 's entertainment इससे 1995 to 2010 ) is an अमरीकी पब्लिक गेमिंग निगम कि owns और operates over 50 कसीनो, होटल, और सात गोल्फ़ courses under several brands.
The company, based in Paradise, नेवाडा, is the largest गेमिंग कम्पनी in the संसार, साथ सालाना revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
Caesars is a public company, with a joint venture of अपोलो वैश्विक प्रबन्धन और टेक्सास प्रशांत समूह ownig a large portion of the stack and Blackstone Group also holding a significant stake.
The name change from `` Harrah 's entertainment inc. '' to `` caesars entertainment निगम '' थी बना official on November 23, 2010.
Harrah 's remains a कुंजी ब्रांड in the company.
On November 5, 2010, harrah 's घोषित an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering of 31,250,000 साझा लकिन retracted इस offering on November 19.
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a Canadian citizen लकिन जो रै महरूम granted अनुमति to सजीव और कार्य in कनाडा बगैर कोई समय सीमा on his or her stay.
A permanent निवासी जरूर सजीव in कनाडा लिये दो सालो आउट of प्रत्येक पाँच or रिस्क losing that status.
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen, among others the right to work for any एंटरप्राइज़ as खूब as लिये the संघीय or प्रांतीय सरकारी ( अंतर्गत प्रतिबंध of अभिगम अधिकारों to निश्चित regulated professions ).
The main मतभेद हैं कि निवासियों can नहीं :
vote in चुनावों in कनाडा ;
run for निर्वाचित दफ्तर ;
थाम कनाडाई passports ;
In addition, वे may be अनुमत to जुड़ें कनाडा 's हथियारबंद शक्तियां if the नेशनल ब्याज होता not be prejudiced.
Permanent residents also रिस्क प्रत्यर्पण लिये गंभीर अपराधों वचनबद्ध जबकि resident in Canada.
Permanent निवासियों may लागू लिये कनाडाई नागरिकता बाद तीन सालो in कनाडा ; however this is not mandatory.
Erica Kane is a fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी एबीसी दिन साबुन ओपेरा All My Children.
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on जनवरी 16, 1970 जबतक the पिछला ब्रॉडकास्ट टेलीविज़न एपीसोड aired on सितंबर 23, 2011.
On February 11, 2013, it थी घोषित कि lucci होगा guest-star on the prospect पार्क 's continuation of All My Children.
In the u.S., एरिका is माना to be the सबसे लोकप्रिय character in soap opera history.
regarding the north-american मार्केट, tv मार्गदर्शिका काल्स उसके `` unequivocally the सबसे प्रसिद्ध साबुन ओपेरा character in the history of daytime TV '', and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time.
A graph of the US CPI इससे 1913 to 2006 ( in ब्लू ), और इसके प्रतिशत annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in the दाम स्तर of a मार्केट बास्केट of उपभोक्ता goods और सेवाएं खरीदा by households.
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the average change over समय in the कीमतें सशुल्क by शहरी उपभोक्ता लिये a मार्केट बास्केट of उपभोक्ता goods and services. ''
The CPI is a statistical अनुमान constructed using the कीमतें of a नमूना of प्रतिनिधि वस्तुएं whose prices are collected periodically.
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods and services, being combined to उपज the overall अनुक्रमणिका साथ weights reflecting उनके साझा in the कुल of the उपभोक्ता expenditures covered by the index.
It is one of several price indices गणना by सबसे नेशनल सांख्यिकीय agencies.
The annual प्रतिशत बदलें in a cpi is प्रयुक्त as a measure of inflation.
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e., adjust लिये the प्रभाव of महंगाई ) the रियल मान of मजदूरी, salaries, pensions, लिये regulating कीमतें और लिये deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values.
In most countries, the CPI is, along with the population census and the USA नेशनल आय और उत्पाद खाते, एक of the सबसे closely देखी नेशनल economic statistics.
Knocking on wood, or to touch wood, refers to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally touching/knocking on wood, or merely stating कि तुम हैं doing or intend वही, in अनुक्रम to avoid `` tempting भाग्य `` बाद बनाना a favourable अवलोकन, a boast, or declaration concerning one 's own death.
रॉकर भुजा
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive, marine, motorcycle and प्रत्यागमनी विमानन इंजन, the रॉकर भुजा is an oscillating लीवर कि conveys रेडियल गति इससे the कैम पालि into रैखिक movement at the poppet valve to open it.
One end is raised and lowered by a घूर्णन पालि of the camshaft ( either सीधे or via a tappet ( lifter ) और pushrod ) जबकि the other end acts on the valve stem.
When the camshaft lobe raises the बाहर of the भुजा, the अंदर दबाता bas on the वाल्व stem, opening the valve.
When the outside of the भुजा is permitted to वापसी due to the camshafts रोटेशन, the inside rises, allowing the valve spring to close the valve.
The drive cam is चलित by the camshaft.
इस pushes the रॉकर भुजा up और bas परिचय the trunnion pin or rocker shaft.
Friction may be reduced at the point of contact साथ the वाल्व स्टेम by a रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता.
A similar arrangement transfers the motion via another रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता to a second rocker arm.
This rotates about the रॉकर शाफ्ट, और हस्तांतरण the गति via a tappet to the poppet valve.
In this मामला इस opens the सेवन valve to the cylinder head.
The effective leverage of the भुजा ( और यूँ the फ़ोर्स it can exert on the वाल्व स्टेम ) is determined by the rocker arm ratio, the ratio of the distance from the rocker arm 's center of rotation to the tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current automotive डिज़ाइन favors रॉकर भुजा ratios of परिचय 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the past छोटी धनात्मक ratios ( the वाल्व लिफ्ट is वृहद than the कैम लिफ्ट ) और भी ऋणात्मक ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used.
Many pre-WW2 इंजन उपयोग 1:1 ( न्यूट्रल ) ratios.
For car engines the rocker arms are generally स्टील stampings, providing a उचित संतुलन of शक्ति, weight and economical cost.
Because the रॉकर बाहें हैं, in भाग, प्रत्यागमनी वज़न, excessive द्रव्यमान विशेषकर at the lever ends limits the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds.
`` The Night the लाइट्स गई आउट in जॉर्जिया '' is a दक्षिणी गोथिक सोंग लिखा by songwriter bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence.
Reba mcentire बाद covered it in 1991.
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western studios on सूर्यास्त in हॉलीवुड और released कम than दो सप्ताह बाद in नवम्बर 1972, the सोंग centers around the पुरानी bhai of the narrator, falsely convicted of and executed for a murder, which the narrator herself has committed.
In postal mail, a return address is an सुस्पष्ट समावेश of the पता of the व्यक्ति sending the संदेश.
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine कैसा to respond to the प्रेषक of the संदेश if needed.
The return address need नहीं शामिल a प्रेषक 's नाम, लकिन चाहिए शामिल पता or p.o. बक्सा विवरण in the same way as the delivery address should.
In some countries, the return address is conventionally स्तिथ in the अपर बाएँ हाथ कोने of the लिफाफा, कार्ड, or लेबल.
In the United किंगडम, the वापसी पता is प्रायः लगाई on the रिवर्स of the envelope, near the top.
व्यवसायों प्रायः उपयोग लिफाफे preprinted with a return address.
Many individuals have चादरें of चिपकने लेबल्स preprinted साथ उनके घर address to affix to their correspondence.
Charities sometimes include ऐसे चादरें in mailshots.
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized लेबल्स to provide individuals an आसान रास्ता to छिलके और स्टिक वापसी पता लेबल्स to उनके लिफाफे.
The return पता is नहीं जरूरी on डाक मेल.
However, lack of a वापसी पता रोकता the डाक सेवा इससे होने समर्थ to वापसी the मद if it proves undeliverable ; such as from damage, postage due, or invalid destination.
Such मेल may यूँ become dead letter mail.
Should the return address be of a different state or देश, the मेल may be routed through कि स्थान लिये आसानी of वापसी.
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or artificial तंत्रिका graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an कृत्रिम अर्थात् of guiding axonal regrowth to सुकर तंत्रिका regeneration और is एक of अनेक नैदानिक treatments for nerve injuries.
When direct suturing of the two आउट of a severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be संपन्नता बगैर टेंशन, the मानक नैदानिक उपचार for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting.
Due to the limited उपलब्धता of दाता ऊतक और कार्यात्मक रिकवरी in autologous तंत्रिका कलम, neural ऊतक अभियान्त्रिकी शोध रै केन्द्रित on the विकास of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment, especially for large defects.
Similar तकनीकों हैं भी होने छान लिये तंत्रिका मरम्मत in the स्पाइनल cord लकिन तंत्रिका regeneration in the सेंट्रल बेचैन system poses a greater challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native environment.
The creation of artificial conduits is भी ज्ञात as entubulation क्युकी the तंत्रिका ends और intervening गैप हैं enclosed भीतर a ट्यूब composed of biological or synthetic materials.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube, सिंथेटिक ट्यूब or tissue-engineered conduit, it चाहिए सुकर neurotropic और neurotrophic संचार between the proximal और distal ends of the तंत्रिका gap, block external inhibitory factors, and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth.
The most मौलिक उद्देश्य of a तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduit is to combine शारीरिक, रासायनिक, and biological cues under conditions that will foster tissue formation.
Materials that have been used to मेक biologic tubes शामिल रक्त बरतन और skeletal मांसपेशियां, जबकि nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively.
tissue-engineered तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduits हैं a संयोजन of अनेक तत्व : scaffold ढांचा, scaffold material, cellular therapies, neurotrophic factors and biomimetic materials.
The choice of which physical, chemical and biological cues to उपयोग is आधारित on the गुण of the तंत्रिका पर्यावरण, which is critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration.
The factors that control material selection include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical अखंडता, controllability दौरान तंत्रिका विकास, implantation और नसबंदी.
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry और ऋण, a family-owned साहूकार दूकान स्तिथ at 20450 greenfield सड़क, between 8 मील सड़क और the जॉन C. आवास फ्रीवे in डेट्रॉयट, Michigan.
The series premiered on August 16, 2010, delivering दो लाख दर्शक, सेटिंग a रिकार्ड as trutv 's most-watched series premiere ever.
amoxicillin bp
amoxicillin ( इन ), formerly amoxycillin ( बैन ), और abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is usually the drug of choice within the क्लास क्युकी it is बेहतर अवशोषित, following मौखिक प्रशासन, than other β-lactam antibiotics.
amoxicillin is एक of the सबसे आम एंटीबायोटिक विहित for children.
The drug became उपलब्धियाँ in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing जीवाणु, जिससे हैं resistant to a व्यापक वर्णक्रम of β-lactam antibiotics, such as penicillin.
लिये इस कारण, it is प्रायः संयुक्त साथ clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases प्रभावकारिता by reducing इसके susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, was the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ), a स्थिति he assumed बाद उसके सेवा as the 37th वाइस President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
he is एक of तभी चार लोगों जो परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : प्रतिनिधि, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a डेमोक्रेट इससे टेक्सास, परोसा as a संयुक्त राज्य प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961, सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त States Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960, जॉनसन थी पूछा by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate लिये the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on नवम्बर 22, 1963, समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही, जीतना by a विशाल हाशिया over बैरी Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों, पब्लिक प्रसारण, medicare, medicaid, पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा, सहायता to शिक्षा, और उसके `` युद्ध on गरीबी. ''
जॉनसन थी प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार, '' उसके coercion of शक्तिशाली politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968, as अमरीकी हताहत soared और the सलाम प्रक्रम bogged bas.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, और अपराधों दरों soared, as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया मांगे लिये `` विधि और अनुक्रम '' policies.
The लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी विभाजित in अनेक feuding गिरोहों, और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended his bid for reelection.
Republican रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to succeed him.
Historians argue that Johnson 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the शिखर of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the संयुक्त राज्य after the New Deal era.
जॉनसन is क्रमित favorably by some historians because of his domestic policies.
The Big Bang Theory cast at कॉमिक कॉन 2009, इससे बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर, साइमन helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The अमरीकी sitcom the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त, निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; पैनी, a वेट्रेस और aspiring अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान आरपार the हॉल ; और लियोनार्ड और शेल्डन 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been प्रचारित to अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ : लेस्ली winkle ( ऋतु 1 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at अलग टाइम्स, a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी, और former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent भूमिका in a छोटी समूह of एपीसोड.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स for secession.
confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, और दोनो पहलू prepared लिये war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
the संघ जल्द नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे बना समाप्ति slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian John huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Human evolution refers to the विकासवादी प्रक्रम अग्रणी up to the रूप of modern humans.
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life, the topic usually covers only the evolutionary history of primates, in particular the genus होमो, और the emergence of होमो sapiens as a पृथक प्रजाति of hominids ( or `` ग्रेट apes '' ).
The study of human evolution involves many scientific disciplines, including physical मानवशास्त्र, primatology, पुरातत्व, भाषाविज्ञान, विकासवादी मनोविज्ञान, embryology and genetics.
According to genetic studies, primates diverged इससे अन्य स्तनधारियों परिचय in the लेट cretaceous काल, and the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene, around.
The परिवार मानवनुमा diverged इससे the hylobatidae ( गिबन ) परिवार 15-20 लाख सालो ago, and around, the Ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged from the Hominidae family.
Bipedalism is the मौलिक adaption of the hominin लकीर, और the earliest bipedal hominin is माना to be either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin, with Ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat later.
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged around the वही समय, परिचय 4-6 लाख सालो पहले, और either sahelanthropus or orrorin may be our last shared ancestor with them.
The early bipedals आखिरकार विकसित into the australopithecines और बाद the genus Homo.
The earliest documented members of the genus Homo हैं होमो habilis जिससे विकसित around ; the earliest प्रजाति लिये जिससे वहीँ is धनात्मक प्रमाण of उपयोग of stone tools.
The brains of these early hominins यहूद परिचय the वही आकार as कि of a चिंपैंजी.
During the next million years a process of encephalization began, और साथ the आगमन of होमो इरेक्टस in the चट्टान रिकार्ड, cranial क्षमता had doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo erectus and होमो ergaster यहूद the पहला of the hominina to छोड़ अफ़्रीकी, और ये प्रजाति स्प्रेड through अफ़्रीकी, Asia, and Europe between.
It is believed कि ये प्रजाति यहूद the पहला to उपयोग fire and complex tools.
According to the Recent अफ़्रीकी ancestry सिद्धान्त, आधुनिक इंसानो विकसित in अफ़्रीकी संभवतः इससे होमो heidelbergensis, होमो rhodesiensis or होमो antecessor और migrated आउट of the महाद्वीप कुछ 50,000 to 100,000 सालो पहले, replacing लोकल populations of Homo erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis.
Archaic Homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically आधुनिक इंसानो, विकसित between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago.
Recent DNA प्रमाण suggests कि अनेक haplotypes of neanderthal उत्पत्ति हैं उपस्थित among सब non-african populations, और neanderthals और अन्य hominids, ऐसे as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago.
the परिवर्तन to behavioral आधुनिकता साथ the विकास of सांकेतिक संस्कृति, भाषा, और specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 years ago according to many anthropologists although some suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span.
Lisa Cuddy, m.d., is a fictional अक्षर on the फॉक्स संजाल medical drama House.
She is portrayed by लिसा edelstein.
Cuddy was the Dean of आयुर्विज्ञान और हॉस्पिटल व्यवस्थापक of the fictional princeton-plainsboro शिक्षण हॉस्पिटल in New Jersey.
She also becomes House 's love interest through the सालो to प्रारंभ a संबंध साथ उसे in season seven.
Cuddy quit her job after the events of ऋतु सात 's finale `` चलती on ``.
Track and field is a खेल comprising विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं based on running, jumping, and throwing.
The name of the खेल गर्भाशयी इससे the प्रतियोगिता स्थान : a स्टेडियम साथ an ओवल कार्यशील track around a grass field.
The throwing and jumping कार्यक्रम generally लो प्लेस in the सेंट्रल enclosed area.
Track and field falls under the छतरियाँ खेल of एथलेटिक्स, जिससे भी शामिल सड़क कार्यशील, क्रॉस देश running, and race walking.
The two most prestigious international track and फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं हैं आयोजित अंतर्गत the ध्वज of एथलेटिक्स : the एथलेटिक्स प्रतियोगिता at the ओलम्पिक खेल और the आइएएएफ World Championships in Athletics.
The International Association of एथलेटिक्स federations is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय शासी देह लिये track and field.
Track and फ़ील्ड कार्यक्रम हैं generally व्यक्तिगत खेल साथ एथलीट चुनौतीपूर्ण each other to decide a single victor.
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest time, while the कूद और फेंकना कार्यक्रम हैं जीती by the खिलाड़ी जो रै हासिल the greatest distance or height in the contest.
The running events are categorised as sprints, मध्य और long-distance कार्यक्रम, relays, and hurdling.
नियमित कूद कार्यक्रम शामिल long जम्प, ट्रिपल जम्प, ऊँची जम्प और ध्रुव वॉल्ट, जबकि the most common throwing events are shot put, javelin, discus and hammer.
There are also `` combined events '', ऐसे as heptathlon और decathlon, in जिससे एथलीट compete in a क्रमांक of the ऊपर events.
रिकॉर्ड हैं रखा of the बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन in विशिष्ट कार्यक्रम, at world and national levels, right down to a personal level.
However, if athletes are deemed to have violated the event 's rules or regulations, वे हैं disqualified इससे the प्रतियोगिता और उनके marks हैं erased.
In North America, the term track और फ़ील्ड may be प्रयुक्त to refer to एथलेटिक्स in सामान्य, बल्कि than specifically track and field events.
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 फ़रवरी 1991 ) थी a युद्ध waged by a u.n.-authorized गठबन्धन फ़ोर्स इससे 34 राष्ट्र led by the संयुक्त राज्य, विरूद्ध इराकी in जवाब to इराकी 's आक्रमण और annexation of Kuwait.
the युद्ध is भी ज्ञात अंतर्गत अन्य names, ऐसे as the पारसी गल्फ युद्ध, पहला गल्फ युद्ध, गल्फ युद्ध i, or the पहला इराकी युद्ध, पहले the पद `` इराकी युद्ध '' became पहचाना instead with the 2003 Iraq War ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ).
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 अगस्त 1990 थी मिले साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय condemnation, और brought तात्कालिक आर्थिक sanctions against Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. President George H. W. Bush तैनात u.S. शक्तियां into सऊदी अरब, और urged अन्य देशों to भेजें उनके अपना शक्तियां to the scene.
An array of राष्ट्र joined the गठबन्धन.
The great majority of the Coalition 's military forces were from the U.S., with Saudi अरब, the संयुक्त किंगडम और मिश्र as अग्रणी योगदानकर्ता, in कि order.
Saudi Arabia सशुल्क around us $ 36 अरब of the us $ 60 billion cost.
The war was marked by the beginning of सजीव न्यूज on the सामने लाइनों of the लड़ो, साथ the primacy of the u.S. संजाल CNN.
The war has also earned the उपनाम वीडियो खेल युद्ध बाद the रोज़ ब्रॉडकास्ट बिंब on फलक the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm.
The initial conflict to expel इराकी सैनिकों इससे कुवैत began साथ an aerial बमबारी on 17 जनवरी 1991.
This was followed by a मैदान उत्पीड़न on 24 February.
This थी a निर्णायक विजय लिये the गठबन्धन शक्तियां, जो liberated कुवैत and advanced into Iraqi territory.
The Coalition ceased उनके अग्रिम, और घोषित a cease-fire 100 hours after the ground campaign started.
aerial और मैदान कॉम्बैट थी confined to इराकी, कुवैत, and areas on Saudi Arabia 's border.
Iraq launched scud मिसाइलें विरूद्ध गठबन्धन सैन्य लक्ष्य in सऊदी Arabia and against Israel.
The nickel, in American usage, is a five- cent सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य Mint.
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 % निकल, the टुकड़ा रै महरूम struck since 1866.
the चांदी हाफ dime, बराबर to पाँच सेंट, था महरूम issued since the 1790s.
The American Civil War caused economic hardship, driving gold and चांदी इससे परिसंचरण ; in जवाब, in प्लेस of low-value सिक्के, the government at first issued paper currency.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional करेंसी नोट बाद स्पेंसर M. क्लार्क, सिर of the करेंसी ब्यूरो ( आज the ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण ), लगाई his own portrait on the denomination.
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces, without अनमोल मेटल, कॉंग्रेस भी प्राधिकृत a five-cent टुकड़ा consisting of आधार मेटल ; the मिंट began striking इस संस्करण in 1866.
The initial design of the शील्ड निकल थी struck जबतक 1883, तब replaced by the Liberty Head nickel.
The भैंस निकल थी introduced in 1913 as भाग of a ड्राइव to बढ़ाएँ the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson nickel followed.
In 2004 और 2005, खास डिजाइन in सम्मान of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued.
In 2006, the Mint reverted to using जेफरसन निकल पंक्तियां फेलिक्स schlag 's असली रिवर्स ( or `` tails '' पक्ष ), although a new obverse, by Jamie Franki, was substituted.
As of 2013, it लागत अधिक than ग्यारह सेंट to उपज a निकल ; the मिंट is exploring the सम्भावना of reducing cost by using less expensive metals.
A poster with flowers or clusters of flowers उत्पादित by बारह प्रजाति of flowering पौधे इससे अलग families
A flower, sometimes ज्ञात as a खिलते or खिलना, is the reproductive ढांचा मिला in flowering पौधे ( पौधे of the division Magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms ).
The biological फलन of a पुष्प is to प्रभाव जनन, प्रायः by providing a यांत्रिकी लिये the union of sperm with eggs.
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a जनसांख्यिकी ) or allow selfing ( संलयन of शुक्राणु और अंडा इससे the वही flower ).
Some पुष्प उपज diaspores बगैर fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
Flowers contain sporangia and are the साईट जहाँ gametophytes develop.
Flowers दे वृद्धि to फल और seeds.
Many flowers have evolved to be आकर्षक to पशु, so as to कारण उन्हें to be vectors for the transfer of pollen.
In addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering पौधे, पुष्प have long महरूम admired और प्रयुक्त by इंसानो to beautify उनके पर्यावरण, और भी as वस्तुएँ of रोमांस, अनुष्ठान, धर्म, medicine and as a source of food.
The McDonnell डगलस ( अभी बोइंग ) f-15 त्रिभुज is a twin-engine, all-weather रणनीतिक सेनानी designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat.
It is considered among the most कामयाब आधुनिक सेनानी, साथ over 100 aerial कॉम्बैट victories with no losses in dogfights.
Following reviews of proposals, the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स चयनित mcdonnell डगलस ' डिज़ाइन in 1967 to मिलें the सेवा 's need लिये a समर्पित air superiority fighter.
The Eagle पहला उड़ाया in जुलाई 1972, और डाला service in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the त्रिभुज रै महरूम exported to इसराईल, जापानी, सऊदी Arabia, and other nations.
The f-15 थी originally envisioned as a pure एयर बड़प्पन aircraft.
Its design included a secondary ground-attack काबिलियत कि थी largely unused.
The design proved flexible पर्याप्त कि an all-weather स्ट्राइक डेरिवेटिव, the f-15e स्ट्राइक Eagle, was later developed, and entered service in 1989.
the f-15 त्रिभुज is अपेक्षित to be in service with the U.S. Air Force past 2025.
Mimio is a brand name of a लकीर of प्रौद्योगिकी उत्पाद aimed at the education market.
The primary products are focused around कंप्यूटर whiteboard इंटरैक्टिव शिक्षण डिवाइस.
MimioCapture devices also allow उपयोक्ता to कैप्चर सब of the स्याही स्ट्रोक्स कि हैं लिखा on the whiteboard.
When used in conjunction with a video प्रोजेक्टर it turns the ordinary whiteboard सतह into a fully इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard.
The product लकीर थी originally designed by आभासी Ink.
On October 4, 2006 Newell rubbermaid acquired the mimio इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard ( iwb ) उत्पाद line.
Rahab of जेरिको
Rahab, ( ; ; ) थी, according to the किताब of जोशुआ, a स्त्री जो जिया in जेरिको in the promised जमीन और assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
Nearly all अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of जोशुआ describe उसके as a harlot or prostitute.
The Organization of American States ( Spanish : Organización de los estados americanos, पुर्तगाली : organização डॉस estados americanos, फ्रेंच : संगठन des États américains ), or the OAS, is a regional international organization.
The OAS थी संस्थापित on 30 अप्रैल 1948, और रै इसके मुख्यालय in Washington, D.C., United States.
Its members हैं the 35 स्वतंत्र राज्य of the Americas.
Since 26 May 2005, the Secretary सामान्य of oas रै महरूम जोस मिगुएल insulza.
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : cristóbal colón ; पुर्तगाली : cristóvão कोलोन ; पहले 31 अक्तूबर 145120 may 1506 ) थी an इतालवी एक्सप्लोरर, नाविक, और colonizer, born in the गणतंत्र of Genoa, in what is today northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the Catholic monarchs of स्पेन, he समाप्त चार voyages आरपार the अटलांटिक समंदर कि led to सामान्य यूरोपीय awareness of the American continents.
those voyages, और उसके प्रयत्न to स्थापित स्थाई settlements on the island of Hispaniola, initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World.
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking माल through the स्थापना of व्यापार रूट और colonies, कोलंबस 's सट्टे प्रस्ताव, to पहुँचें the ईस्ट इंडीज by sailing westward, आखिरकार प्राप्त the support of the स्पेनी क्राउन, जिससे देखी in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia.
During his पहला voyage in 1492, बजाय of reaching जापानी as he था intended, कोलंबस landed in the Bahamas archipelago, at a locale he named San Salvador.
Over the course of three more voyages, Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser Antilles, as well as the caribbean coast of वेनेजुएला और सेंट्रल अमेरिका, claiming उन्हें लिये the स्पेनी Empire.
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to reach the Americas ( having been preceded by the Norse expedition led by leif ericson in the 11th सदी ), कोलंबस 's voyages led to the पहला स्थायी यूरोपीय सम्पर्क साथ the americas, inaugurating a काल of यूरोपीय खोजी, conquest, and colonization that lasted for several centuries.
They had, therefore, an enormous impact in the ऐतिहासिक विकास of the आधुनिक पश्चिमी संसार.
कोलंबस खुद देखी उसके accomplishments primarily in the लाइट of the spreading of the Christian religion.
Never admitting that he had reached a continent previously अनजान to europeans, बल्कि than the ईस्ट इंडीज he था नियत आउट लिये, कोलंबस पुकारा the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ).
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial प्रशासकों in अमेरिका led to उसके गिरफ़्तार और dismissal as राज्यपाल of the settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला in 1500, और बाद to protracted वाद over the लाभ जिससे कोलंबस और his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown.
Bred in Germany, the Boxer is a नस्ल of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; रंगों हैं fawn or brindled, साथ or बगैर श्वेत markings, which may cover the entire body.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad, short skulls ), and have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), बहुत दमदार जबड़े, और a शक्तिशाली काटना आदर्श लिये फांसी on to विशाल prey.
The boxer थी करवाया इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी बुल और the अभी विलुप्त bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
Boxers were first exhibited in a श्वान दिखाएँ लिये st. bernards in म्यूनिख in 1895, the first Boxer club being founded the next year.
आधारित on 2012 अमरीकी kennel क्लबों आंकडे, मुक्केबाज held steady as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the United States for the third consecutive year.
सीरियल ata ( sata ) is a कंप्यूटर बस इंटरफ़ेस कि connects host bus adapters to mass storage devices such as hard disk drives and optical drives.
Serial ATA replaces the पुरानी at अनुलग्नक मानक ( ata ; बाद referred to as समानांतर ata or pata ), offering अनेक लाभ over the पुरानी इंटरफ़ेस : घटाया केबल आकार और लागत ( सात conductors बजाय of 40 ), देशी hot swapping, तेज़ आंकड़ा transfer through higher signalling rates, and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol.
SATA host adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed सीरियल केबल over दो pairs of conductors.
In contrast, parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications ) used a 16-bit चौड़ी आंकड़ा बस साथ अनेक अतिरिक्त support और कंट्रोल सिग्नल, सब ऑपरेटिंग at much निम्नतर आवृत्ति.
to ensure पिछड़ा संगतता साथ विरासत ata तन्त्र और अनुप्रयोग, SATA uses the same basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices.
sata रै replaced समानांतर ata in उपभोक्ता डेस्कटॉप और लैपटॉप कंप्यूटर, और रै largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications.
SATA 's मार्केट share in the डेस्कटॉप pc मार्केट थी 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded अनुप्रयोग कि उपयोग compactflash भंडार, भी हालांकि the नई cfast मानक is based on SATA.
Serial ATA उद्योग संगतता विशेषताएँ originate इससे the सीरियल ata अंतरराष्ट्रीय Organization ( aka.
SATA-IO, serialata.org ).
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, और publishes the interoperability विशेषताएँ, the परीक्षण मामले, and plug-fests.
As with many other industry compatibility standards, the SATA content ownership is transferred to अन्य उद्योग लाशें : primarily the incits t13 उपसमिति ata, the incits t10 उपसमिति ( scsi ) ; a subgroup of t10 जिम्मेदार लिये सीरियल संलग्न scsi ( SAS ).
the पूरा specification from SATA-IO.
The remainder of this article होगा कोशिश to उपयोग the शब्दावली और विशेषताएँ of sata-io.
The इतिहास of the अंतरजाल began साथ the विकास of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर विज्ञान प्राध्यापक लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ), बाद the दूसरी piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched संजाल ऐसे as arpanet, चिह्नित i at npl in the uk, cyclades, मेरिट संजाल, tymnet, and Telenet, were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
The ARPANET in particular led to the विकास of प्रोटोकॉल लिये internetworking, in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could be joined साथ into a network of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized, and consequently, the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected tcp/ip संजाल, पुकारा the अंतरजाल, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 जब the नेशनल विज्ञान न्यास ( nsf ) विकसित the कंप्यूटर विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet ) और again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the लेट 1980s और जल्दी 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, निकालना the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the अंतरजाल to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on संस्कृति और कॉमर्स, सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल, तत्काल messaging, आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची गति रीढ़ संजाल सेवा ( vbns ), internet2, और National LambdaRail.
increasing amounts of आंकड़ा हैं transmitted at उच्चतर और उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical शर्तें : it तभी communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, चलित by कभी वृहद amounts of ऑनलाइन सूचना, कॉमर्स, entertainment, and social networking.
the तोहफा is the दूसरी एल्बम by स्कॉटिश सिंगर सुसान बॉयल, which was released on 8 November 2010.
Boyle hinted that the album has a 1960s feel `` क्युकी कि थी [ उसके ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the एल्बम प्राप्त a नामांकन in 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album.
`` This Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a प्रसिद्ध imagist कविता by विलियम कार्लोस Williams.
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric ब्रायन डम्बल्डोर is a प्रमुख अक्षर और समर्थक of J. K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
For most of the series, he is the हेडमास्टर of the wizarding स्कूल हॉग्वार्ट्स.
As भाग of उसके backstory, it is नाज़िल कि he is the संस्थापक और नेता of the अनुक्रम of the फीनिक्स, an संगठन समर्पित to लड़ the प्रमुख विपक्षी of the श्रेणी, Lord Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by रिचर्ड हैरिस in the फिल्मी adaptions of हैरी कुम्हार और the पारस 's स्टोन and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
After हैरिस ' मौत, माइकल gambon portrayed Dumbledore for all of the remaining films.
Rowling stated she chose the name डम्बल्डोर, जिससे is an जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लिये `` bumblebee ``, क्युकी of डम्बल्डोर 's प्रेम of म्यूज़िक : वो imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot ''.
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is उत्पादित in इंसानो primarily by the parafollicular कोशिकाएं ( भी ज्ञात as c-cells ) of the थायराइड, और in अनेक other animals in the ultimobranchial body.
it अधिनियमों to reduce रक्त कैल्सियम ( ca2+ ), opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ).
Calcitonin रै महरूम मिला in मछली, सरीसृपों, birds, and mammals.
Its importance in humans has not महरूम as खूब स्थापित as इसके महत्व in अन्य पशु, as इसके फलन is प्रायः नहीं significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis.
It belongs to calcitonin-like प्रोटीन परिवार.
A mousepad साथ a padded कलाई बाकी.
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( uk ) is a सतह लिये रखकर और चलती a कंप्यूटर mouse.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the चूहा compared to using a चूहा सीधे on a तालिका by providing a सतह to allow the ट्रैकिंग led or बॉल ( in पूर्व मॉडल ) to माप गति accurately and without jitter.
Some mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded कलाई rest.
The स्टेडियम देखी इससे ऊपर in 1980
दिसम्बर 29, 2002 implosion
the riverfront स्टेडियम साईट in जून, 2006.
इस फ़ोटो थी लिया इससे the पश्चिमी concourse of Great American Ball Park.
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the लाल ' हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय और प्रमुख गली, जिससे थी विस्तारित जब the new park was built.
The Cincinnati Bengals ' पॉल भूरा स्टेडियम is in the distance.
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), later known as cinergy फ़ील्ड ( 1996–2002 ), थी the घर of the सिनसिनाटी लाल नेशनल लीग बेसबॉल टोली और the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team.
Located on the Ohio River in downtown सिनसिनाटी, the स्टेडियम थी बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the घर of `` the बिग रेड यंत्र ``, as the लाल यहूद प्रायः पुकारा in the 1970s.
निर्माण began on फ़रवरी 1, 1968, और थी समाप्त at a cost of less than $ 50 million.
On June 30, 1970, the लाल hosted the अटलांटा braves in उनके ग्रैंड खोलने, with Hank Aaron hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront.
Two weeks बाद on जुलाई 14, 1970, riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख League Baseball All-Star Game.
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed टक्कर at घर थाली between लाल स्टार पीट रोज़ और catcher रे fosse of the क्लीवलैंड Indians.
In September 1996, Riverfront Stadium was renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a प्रायोजन सौदे साथ वृहद सिनसिनाटी 's उर्जा कम्पनी, cinergy निगम.
In 2001, to make room for Great American बॉल पार्क, the seating क्षमता at cinergy फ़ील्ड थी घटाया to 39,000.
There was a huge wall in Center Field दृश्य बाद the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
The स्टेडियम थी demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
Nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer, headquartered in Yangsan, South gyeongsang प्रांत, और सियोल, दोनो in दक्षिण Korea.
इसके प्रमुख घरेलू प्रतिस्पर्धी हैं hankook Tire and Kumho Tires.
The company 's name is reflected in the कम्पनी स्लोगन, `` Next Century Tire. ''
The silent बहुमत is an अनिर्दिष्ट विशाल बहुमत of लोगों in a देश or समूह जो do not express their opinions publicly.
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President रिचर्ड निक्सन in a नवम्बर 3, 1969, वाक in जिससे he कहा, `` और so tonight—to तुम, the ग्रेट मूक बहुमत of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support. ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join in the large demonstrations against the वियतनाम युद्ध at the समय, जो किया नहीं जुड़ें in the counterculture, और जो किया नहीं participate in पब्लिक प्रवचन.
Nixon along with many others saw this group of मध्य अमेरिकी as होने निष्प्रभ in the मीडिया by the अधिक गायन अल्पसंख्यक.
The phrase थी प्रयुक्त in the 19th सदी as a प्रेयोक्ति referring to सब the लोगों जो have died, और अन्य have used it before and after Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the world.
sam, a rhesus मंकी, उड़ाया to an altitude of 88 km in 1959.
( नासा )
Before humans went into space, several animals were launched into space, सहित numerous बंदरों, so कि वैज्ञानिकों could investigate the biological प्रभाव of space travel.
The United राज्य शुभारम्भ फ़्लाइट containing primate कार्गो primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985.
France शुभारम्भ दो monkey-carrying फ़्लाइट in 1967.
The सोवियत संघ और रूस शुभारम्भ बंदरों between 1983 and 1996.
Most monkeys यहूद anesthetized पहले lift-off.
Overall thirty-two बंदरों उड़ाया in the स्पेस कार्यक्रम ; none flew more than once.
Numerous back-up बंदरों भी गई through the कार्यक्रम लकिन never flew.
Monkeys from several species were used, सहित rhesus बंदरों, cynomolgus बंदरों, गिलहरी बंदरों, and pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes बल्कि than बंदरों ) यहूद भी प्रयुक्त.
RAID ( अनावश्यक सरणी of स्वतंत्र डिस्क, originally अनावश्यक सरणी of inexpensive डिस्क ) is a storage technology that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit.
Data is distributed across the drives in one of अनेक तरीके पुकारा `` रेड स्तर '', depending on the स्तर of अतिरेक और प्रदर्शन जरूरी.
The term `` RAID '' was first defined by David पैटरसन, garth A. गिब्सन, और रैंडी katz at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Berkeley in 1987.
Marketers representing industry RAID manufacturers later attempted to reinvent the पद to describe a अनावश्यक सरणी of स्वतंत्र डिस्क as a अर्थात् of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology.
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage योजनाएं कि can divide और replicate आंकड़ा among अनेक शारीरिक ड्राइव : रेड is an उदाहरण of भंडार आभासीकरण और the सरणी can be पहुँचा by the operating system as one single drive.
The different schemes or architectures हैं नामित by the शब्द रेड followed by a क्रमांक ( e.g. RAID 0, RAID 1 ).
Each scheme provides a अलग संतुलन between the कुंजी लक्ष्य : विश्वसनीयता और उपलब्धता, performance and capacity.
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide सुरक्षा विरूद्ध unrecoverable ( सेक्टर ) पढ़ा त्रुटियाँ, as खूब as whole disk failure.
A lymphocyte is a type of white रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate प्रतिरक्षा system.
Under the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes और छोटी lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक कातिल cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं और b कोशिकाएं.
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 अंधेरा कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by जोएल और Ethan Coen.
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff Lebowski, an बेरोजगार लॉस एंजिल्स slacker और avid बॉलर, nicknamed `` The Dude. ''
बाद a मामला of mistaken पहचान, the यार is introduced to a करोड़पति also named Jeffrey Lebowski.
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped, he आयोग the यार to उद्धार the फिरौती to सुरक्षित उसके रिलीज.
The plan goes awry when The Dude 's friend वाल्टर sobchak ( जॉन गुडमैन ) योजनाएं to रखना the पूरा ransom.
स्टीव buscemi, फिलिप seymour हॉफमन, दाउद huddleston, julianne मूर, tara reid, और जॉन turturro भी स्टार in the फिल्मी, जिससे is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '', played by Sam Elliott.
The film is loosely inspired by the कार्य of रेमंड चांडलर.
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler kind of story – how it moves episodically, and deals with the characters trying to सुलझाना a रहस्य, as खूब as having a hopelessly जटिल प्लाट कि 's ultimately महत्वहीन. ''
The original स्कोर थी रचित by कार्टर burwell, a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers.
The Big lebowski थी a निराशा at the u.S. बक्सा दफ्तर और प्राप्त mixed reviews at the time of its release.
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time, and the फिल्मी रै become a cult पसंदीदा, विख्यात लिये इसके idiosyncratic वर्ण, सपना sequences, unconventional संवाद, and eclectic soundtrack.
Severus Snape is a fictional अक्षर in the हैरी कुम्हार किताब series written by J.K. Rowling.
In the first novel of the series, he is शत्रु toward हैरी और is निर्मित up to be the प्राथमिक विपक्षी until the final chapters.
As the series progresses, snape 's अक्षर becomes अधिक परतदार और जटिल.
Rowling करता नहीं fully खुलासा the विवरण of उसके सच्चा loyalties जबतक the end of the final book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Over the course of the series, Snape 's portrayal evolves इससे कि of a दुर्भावनापूर्ण और दलगत टीचर to कि of a pivotal अक्षर of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily teaches potions at हॉग्वार्ट्स, हालांकि in the छठे अनोखा he सिखाती रक्षा विरूद्ध the अंधेरा कला, a स्थिति which he was known to have desired throughout the series.
He ultimately becomes हेडमास्टर of हॉग्वार्ट्स in the फाइनल अनोखा.
रोलिंग रै वर्णित उसे as `` a तोहफा of a character ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn खाना of देशी अमरीकी उत्पत्ति, कि is आम in the दक्षिणी संयुक्त राज्य और मुख्यतः खाया at breakfast.
Modern grits हैं commonly बना of alkali-treated मकई known as hominy.
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges इससे around the संसार ऐसे as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` Instant grits '' have महरूम processed to speed cooking.
The word `` grits '' derives from the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी शब्द `` grytt, '' अर्थ coarse meal.
This word originally referred to गेहूं और अन्य porridges अभी ज्ञात as groats in भाग of the U.K..
Maize, unknown in Europe in the मध्य आयु, is a खाना निकला इससे मकई ( a नई संसार संयंत्र ) और `` मकई '' had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions.
`` Grits '' may be either एकवचन or बहुवचन ; historically, in the अमरीकी दक्षिण the शब्द थी invariably एकवचन notwithstanding इसके बहुवचन रूप ( cf. ऐसे खाना names as `` स्पघेटी '' or `` linguine '', likewise plural in form, but singular in use ).
Sometimes, grits are called sofkee or sofkey ( from a देशी अमरीकी muskogee शब्द ).
In molecular जीवविज्ञान, इंसान chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a हार्मोन produced by the fertilized egg after conception.
Later दौरान गर्भावस्था it is बना by the विकासशील placenta, और बाद by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors उपज इस हार्मोन ; इसलिए, elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is नहीं pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not ज्ञात whether इस उत्पादन is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary ग्रंथि of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has निषिद्ध the बिक्री of `` होम्योपैथिक '' और over the काउंटर hcg आहार products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
the लास वेगास स्ट्रिप संसार of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft पेय बेची in स्टोर्स, रेस्तरां, और वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक देश मगर क्यूबा and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, जॉर्जिया, और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola कम्पनी in the संयुक्त राज्य चूंकि कूच 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a पेटेंट आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton, coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is तब बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers शामिल coca-cola उद्यमों, जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company रै, on अवसर, introduced अन्य कोला पेय अंतर्गत the कोक ब्रांड name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola, आहार कोक caffeine-free, coca-cola चेरी, coca-cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola थी the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान brand.
An ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant उपाधि of स्वतंत्रता, जो is चार्ज साथ representing the रूचि of the पब्लिक by investigating और संबोधित शिकायत of maladministration or violation of rights.
In some countries an Inspector General, Citizen एडवोकेट or अन्य आधिकारिक may have कर्तव्य समान to those of a नेशनल ombudsman, और may also be appointed by the legislature.
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or municipal government, and unofficial ombudsmen may be नियुक्त by, or भी कार्य लिये, a निगम ऐसे as a यूटिलिटी प्रदायक or a समाचारपत्र, लिये an ngo, or लिये a पेशेवर regulatory body.
Whether appointed by the विधानमंडल, the कार्यपालिका, or an संगठन ( or, कम अक्सर, निर्वाचित by the constituency कि he or वो serves ), the ठेठ कर्तव्य of an ombudsman हैं to investigate शिकायत और attempt to निराकरण them, usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation.
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to पहचानो प्रणालीगत मुद्दे अग्रणी to ग़रीब सेवा or breaches of people 's rights.
At the national level, most ombudsmen have a चौड़ी जनादेश to सौदे साथ the संपूर्ण पब्लिक सेक्टर, और sometimes भी तत्व of the निजी सेक्टर ( लिये उदाहरण, contracted service providers ).
In some मामले, वहीँ is a अधिक प्रतिबंधित जनादेश, लिये उदाहरण साथ particular sectors of society.
अधिक हाल developments have शामिल the सृष्टि of specialised Children 's Ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies.
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g. the संयुक्त किंगडम संसदीय कमिश्नर लिये प्रशासन, और the पश्चिमी ऑस्ट्रेलियाई राज्य ombudsman ).
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing साथ कथित maladministration to promoting और protecting इंसान अधिकारों, the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution.
The post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century been instituted by सबसे सरकारें और by कुछ intergovernmental संगठन ऐसे as the European Union.
बनाना a शिकायत to an ombudsman is usually free of charge.
Sign at georgetown विश्वविद्यालयों वॉशिंगटन DC
Sign in बांजुल, the गाम्बिया
Autumn in New इंग्लैण्ड, watercolor, मौरिस prendergast.
ca. 1910–1913
Fall foliage in the कस्बा of स्टो, वर्मांट
New England is a region in the northeastern कोने of the संयुक्त राज्य consisting of the छह राज्य of maine, नई हैम्पशायर, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.
New इंग्लैण्ड is bordered by नई यॉर्क राज्य to the दक्षिणपश्चिम, क्यूबेक to the उत्तरपश्चिम, और नई Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east.
In one of the earliest English settlements in North अमेरिका, तीर्थयात्रियों इससे इंग्लैण्ड पहला settled in नई इंग्लैण्ड in 1620, to रूप plymouth उपनिवेश.
Ten years later, the puritans settled उत्तर of plymouth उपनिवेश in बोस्टन, यूँ forming मैसाचुसेट्स Bay Colony.
Over the next 130 years, New England fought in four French और भारतीय युद्धों, जबतक the अंग्रेजों पराजित the फ्रेंच और उनके देशी allies in उत्तर America.
In the late 18th century, the New England colonies initiated the प्रतिरोध to the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट 's प्रयत्न to थोपने नई कर without the consent of the colonists.
The Boston Tea Party was a विरोध to जिससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन responded साथ a श्रेणी of दंडात्मक कानून stripping मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government, which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the अंग्रेजों अधिकारियों इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड in वसन्त 1776, और the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in July 1776.
Some of the पहला आंदोलनों of अमरीकी साहित्य, दर्शनशास्त्र, और शिक्षा originated in New England.
The region played a prominent role in the गति to abolish गुलामी, और थी the पहला प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य to be रूपांतरित by the Industrial Revolution.
Today, New England is a major world center of शिक्षा, ऊँची प्रौद्योगिकी, बीमे, और आयुर्विज्ञान.
Boston is its cultural, financial, शैक्षणिक, चिकित्सा और परिवहन center.
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities ज्ञात as नई इंग्लैण्ड कस्बों, जिससे हैं प्रायः governed by town meeting.
the तभी unincorporated territory in New England exists in the sparse, northern regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
Since 1970, voters have more often supported liberal उम्मीदवार at the राज्य और संघीय स्तर than those of कोई अन्य प्रदेश in the संयुक्त राज्य.
New England is the only one of the United States Census Bureau 's nine regional विभाजन जिनकी नाम करता नहीं derive इससे इसके भूगोल, और it is the तभी multi-state प्रदेश साथ साफ, सतत boundaries.
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity नियत अलावा इससे the बाकी of the देश, हालांकि the शर्तें of इस पहचान हैं प्रायः लडे, combining puritanism साथ उदारतावाद, कृषिक जीवन साथ उद्योग, and isolation with immigration.
आपात !
is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि combines the चिकित्सा drama and action-adventure genres.
It was produced by Mark VII Limited और वितरित by सार्वभौमिक studios.
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15, 1972, on एनबीसी, replacing the दो short-lived श्रेणी the साझेदार और the शुभ जीवन, और भागा जबतक September 3, 1977, with six additional two-hour television films during the following two years.
आपात !
was created and produced by Jack webb और रॉबर्ट A. cinader, दोनो of जिसको यहूद भी जिम्मेदार for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet.
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 u.S. राज्य in the पूर्वी भाग of the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य, भाग of कनाडा और three countries in South America.
Places that use Eastern Standard समय ( est ) जब observing मानक समय ( autumn/winter ) हैं 5 घंटों पीछे समन्वित Universal Time ( ).
Eastern Daylight Time ( edt ), जब observing daylight छायांकन समय ( spring/summer ) is 4 घंटों पीछे Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
In the northern parts of the time zone, during the दूसरी संडे in कूच, at 2:00 a.m. est, घड़ियाँ हैं उन्नत to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap. ''
During the first Sunday in November, at 2:00 a.m. EDT, clocks are moved वापस to 1:00 a.m. est, यूँ `` duplicating '' one hour.
दक्षिणी भाग of the मण्डल ( पनामा और the caribbean ) do not observe daylight saving.
Standard रूप of the आवधिक table.
The colors represent अलग श्रेणी of तत्व explained below.
The आवधिक तालिका is a table प्रदर्शक of the रासायनिक तत्व, व्यवस्थित on the आधार of उनके atomic numbers, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
Elements हैं प्रस्तुत in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( number of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of तत्व, positioned ऊपर a छोटी double row of elements.
The table can भी be deconstructed into चार आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, और p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह, साथ कुछ of ये having names ऐसे as the हैलोजन्स or the प्रतिष्ठित गैसों.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates पुनरावर्ती रुझान, कोई ऐसे तालिका can be प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between the गुण of the तत्व और भविष्यवाणी the गुण of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the मानक रूप or कुछ अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव, और such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors मौजूद, dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
He developed उसके तालिका to illustrate आवधिक रुझान in the properties of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also predicted some गुण of then-unknown तत्व कि होता be expected to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the तत्व in सवाल यहूद subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since महरूम विस्तारित और परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई तत्व और the विकास of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from atomic संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम खोजा or synthesized.
The elements इससे 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to मौजूद naturally, हालांकि कुछ हैं मिला तभी in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
The तत्व बाद 98 have तभी महरूम synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is होने धड़ा, साथ the सवाल of कैसा the आवधिक तालिका may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate कोई ऐसे परिवर्धन होने a matter of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally निर्मित by स्वीडिश प्रोग्रामर markus `` पायदान '' Persson and later developed and published by Mojang.
It थी सरेआम released लिये the pc on may 17, 2009, as a developmental अल्फा संस्करण और, बाद क्रमिक updates, was published as a full release version on November 18, 2011.
A version for Android was released a माह पहले on अक्तूबर 7, और an आईओएस संस्करण थी released on नवम्बर 17, 2011.
On May 9, 2012, the खेल थी released on एक्सबॉक्स 360 as an Xbox Live Arcade game, co-developed by 4J Studios.
All versions of minecraft प्राप्त आवधिक updates.
The creative and building aspects of Minecraft allow खिलाड़ी to निर्माण constructions आउट of textured घन in a 3d procedurally उत्पन्न संसार.
अन्य क्रियाएँ in the खेल शामिल खोजी, gathering resources, crafting and combat.
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival, which requires खिलाड़ी to acquire संसाधन और maintain उनके स्वास्थ्य और भूख ; और रचनात्मक, जहाँ खिलाड़ी have an असीमित सप्लाई of संसाधन, the ability to fly, and no health or hunger.
A third gameplay mode named हार्डकोर is the वही as अस्तित्व, differing तभी in परेशानी ; it is नियत to hardest setting and respawning is disabled, forcing players to delete their worlds upon death.
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the नवीनता पुरस्कार, बेहतरीन downloadable खेल पुरस्कार, और the बेहतरीन डेब्यू खेल पुरस्कार इससे the खेल डेवलपर चुनाव पुरस्कार ; और the दर्शक पुरस्कार, as well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize, from the Independent Games Festival in 2011.
In 2012, Minecraft was awarded a सुनहरी जॉयस्टिक पुरस्कार in the श्रेणी बेहतरीन Downloadable Game.
As of April 8, 2013, the game has sold over 10 million copies on pc और as of जनवरी 22, 2013, over 20 लाख नक़ल आरपार सब प्लेटफ़ॉर्म.
The Dark Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero film निर्देशित, उत्पादित, और co-written by क्रिस्टोफर नोलन.
Based on the DC Comics अक्षर बैटमैन, the फिल्मी is the दूसरी भाग of नोलन 's बैटमैन फिल्मी श्रेणी और a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of Bruce Wayne/Batman, with a returning डाल of माइकल caine as अल्फ्रेड pennyworth, गेरी oldman as जेम्स गॉर्डन और मॉर्गन फ्रीमैन as लुसियस फॉक्स.
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ), Gotham 's newly elected District Attorney and the consort of Bruce वेन 's बाल्यकाल dost रेचल dawes ( मैगी जिलएनहॉल ), जो joins बैटमैन और the पुलिस in combating the नई उठती threat of a दण्ड मास्टरमाइंड कॉलिंग खुद `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ).
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 ग्राफिक अनोखा, और the 1996 श्रेणी, जिससे retold two-face 's origin.
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to बैटमैन in बैटमैन no. 1 ( 1940 ), in a स्टोरी लिखा by विधेयक उंगली.
The अंधेरा नाईट थी फिल्माया primarily in शिकागो, as खूब as in अनेक other locations in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
Nolan used an imax कैमरा to फिल्मी कुछ sequences, सहित the Joker 's first appearance in the film.
On January 22, 2008, some months after he had completed filming on The Dark Knight and six महीने पहले the फिल्मी 's रिलीज, झाड़ लेजर died इससे a विषाक्त संयोजन of नुस्खा दवाएँ, अग्रणी to intense attention from the press and movie-going public.
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight, developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen गोलियाँ of लेजर as the जोकर, लकिन बाद लेजर 's मौत, the स्टुडियो refocused इसके promotional अभियान.
The Dark Knight was released on July 16, 2008 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, on जुलाई 18, 2008 in उत्तर अमेरिका, और on जुलाई 24, 2008 in the United Kingdom.
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero films ever made, the फिल्मी प्राप्त अत्यधिक धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ और नियत numerous रिकॉर्ड दौरान इसके theatrical run.
With over $ 1 अरब in आय विश्वव्यापी, it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all time, unadjusted for inflation.
The film received आठ अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations ; it जीती the पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन और लेजर थी मरणोपरांत awarded Best Supporting Actor.
The Dark Knight Rises, the final part of the त्रयी, थी released on जुलाई 20, 2012.
The timeline of radio lists within the history of radio, the प्रौद्योगिकी और कार्यक्रम कि उत्पादित यंत्र कि उपयोग रेडियो लहरें और क्रियाएँ कि लोगों undertook.
Later, the history is वर्चस्व by प्रोग्रामिंग और सामग्री, जिससे is करीब to सामान्य history.
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing कला केन्द्र in नई दक्षिण वेल्स, ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
It was conceived और largely निर्मित by डैनिश वास्तु jørn utzon, खोलने in 1973 बाद a long gestation that began with his competition-winning design in 1957.
Joseph काहिल 's नई दक्षिण वेल्स सरकारी दिया the go-ahead लिये work to begin in 1958.
The सरकारी 's बिंदास निर्णय to चुनें utzon 's डिज़ाइन is प्रायः निष्प्रभ by the scandal that followed.
it is on bennelong पाइंट in सिडनी Harbour, close to the Sydney Harbour Bridge.
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central कारोबार ज़िला ( the सीबीडी ), घिरी on तीन पहलू by the harbour ( Sydney Cove and Farm Cove ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Contrary to इसके नाम, it घरों अनेक performance venues.
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the संसार, होस्टिंग over 1,500 प्रदर्शन प्रत्येक साल attended by some 1.2 million people.
It provides a venue for many performing-arts कंपनियाँ, सहित the चार कुंजी निवासी कंपनियाँ ओपेरा ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई बैले, the सिडनी थिएटर कम्पनी और the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and presents a wide range of productions on its own account.
It is also one of the most popular visitor attractions in Australia, with more than सात लाख लोगों visiting प्रत्येक साल, 300,000 of जिसको लो a guided tour.
It is administered by the Sydney ओपेरा हाउस विश्वास, अंतर्गत the नई दक्षिण वेल्स मंत्रालय of the Arts.
On 28 June 2007, it थी बना a युनेस्को संसार विरासत Site.
It is one of the 20th century 's सबसे distinctive इमारतें और एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध performing arts centres in the world.
A graph of body mass index as a फलन of देह द्रव्यमान और देह ऊँचाई is दिखाया above.
the dashed लाइनों represent subdivisions भीतर a major class.
For instance the `` Underweight '' classification is further विभाजित into `` कठोर '', `` मॉडरेट '', और `` mild '' subclasses.
The body mass index ( BMI ), or quetelet अनुक्रमणिका, is a माप लिये इंसान देह आकार आधारित on an individual 's weight and height.
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the Belgian polymath Adolphe quetelet दौरान the कोर्स of विकासशील `` सोशल भौतिकी ''.
Body mass index is defined as the individual 's देह द्रव्यमान विभाजित by the वर्गाकार of उनके ऊँचाई.
The formulae universally प्रयुक्त in आयुर्विज्ञान उपज a ईकाई of measure of kg/m2.
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart, which displays BMI as a function of weight ( horizontal अक्ष ) और ऊँचाई ( लंबवत अक्ष ) using रुपरेखा लाइनों लिये अलग मान of बीएमआई or रंगों लिये अलग बीएमआई श्रेणी.
† The factor लिये uk/us इकाई is अधिक precisely 703.06957964, लकिन कि स्तर of परिशुद्धता is not meaningful for this calculation.
To work from stone and pounds first multiply the स्टोन by 14 तब add the पाउंड to दे the पूरे द्रव्यमान in पाउंड ; to कार्य इससे फीट और इंच पहला गुणा the फीट by 12 then add the inches to give the whole height in inches.
Thomas Paine ( January 29, 1737 ( NS फ़रवरी 9, 1737 ) – जून 8, 1809 ) थी an english-american राजनैतिक activist, लेखक, political theorist and revolutionary.
As the लेखक of दो अत्यधिक influential pamphlets at the प्रारंभ of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, he प्रेरित the Patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain.
His ideas reflected आत्मज्ञान era बयानबाजी of transnational इंसान rights.
he रै महरूम पुकारा `` a corsetmaker by व्यापार, a पत्रकार by व्यवसायिक, and a propagandist by inclination. ''
Born in Thetford, इंग्लैण्ड, in the काउंटी of नॉर्फ़ोक, paine emigrated to the अंग्रेजों अमरीकी colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the American Revolution.
His principal contributions were the शक्तिशाली, widely पढ़ा pamphlet आम भाव ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling अमरीकी किताब कि advocated औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका 's स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of Great Britain, and The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said, `` Without the कलम of the लेखक of आम भाव, the तलवार of वॉशिंगटन होता have महरूम उठाया in vain.”
Paine lived in France for सबसे of the 1790s, बनने deeply शामिल in the French Revolution.
He लिखा the अधिकारों of man ( 1791 ), in भाग a रक्षा of the French Revolution against its critics.
His attacks on British लेखक एडमंड बुर्के led to a विचारण और conviction in absentia in 1792 लिये the अपराधों of seditious libel.
In 1792, despite not होने समर्थ to बोलो फ्रेंच, he थी निर्वाचित to the फ्रेंच National Convention.
The girondists regarded उसे as an ally.
Consequently, the montagnards, विशेषकर robespierre, regarded him as an enemy.
In December 1793, he was arrested and imprisoned in पेरिस, तब released in 1794.
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ), his किताब कि अधिवक्ताओं देववाद, promotes कारण और freethinking, और argues विरूद्ध institutionalized धर्म in सामान्य और ईसाई doctrine in particular.
He also wrote the pamphlet कृषिक इंसाफ ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of प्रॉपर्टी, और introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income.
in 1802, he लौटे to America where he died on June 8, 1809.
Only six people attended his funeral as he था महरूम ostracized लिये उसके उपहास of christianity.
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically, सूचना परिचय प्रतिकूल ड्रग प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of अन्य उपचार ) लिये स्वास्थ्य interventions ( e.g., दवाएँ, नैदानिक, devices, therapy protocols ).
They are conducted तभी बाद संतोषजनक सूचना रै महरूम gathered on the विशेषता of the गैर नैदानिक सुरक्षा, और स्वास्थ्य authority/ethics कमेटी स्वीकृति is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought.
Previously, many उभरते देशों किया नहीं आवश्यकता लोकल ट्रायल लिये product approvals.
Now, though उभरते देशों स्टिल accept आंकड़ा इससे u.s./europe, they also require some local trials.
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development, investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot studies, and subsequently conduct larger स्केल अध्ययन in मरीजों कि प्रायः compare the नई उत्पाद साथ अन्य already स्वीकृत लिये the affliction of ब्याज.
as धनात्मक सुरक्षा और efficacy आंकड़ा हैं gathered, the number of patients is typically increased.
Clinical trials can vary in size, और can involve a सिंगल शोध एंटिटी in एक देश or many such entities in multiple countries.
A full series of ट्रायल may incur sizable लागत, और the बोझ of paying लिये सब the जरुरी लोगों और सेवाएं is प्रायः borne by the प्रायोजक, जिससे may be a सरकारी संगठन or a फार्मास्युटिकल, biotechnology or medical device company.
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of the sponsor, a नैदानिक विचारण is प्रबंधित by an outsourced संगी, ऐसे as a अनुबंध शोध संगठन or a नैदानिक ट्रायल ईकाई in the academic sector.
The Green Bay Packers are an American football टोली आधारित in ग्रीन खाड़ी, विस्कॉन्सिन.
They are members of the North Division of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the एनएफएल, having महरूम व्यवस्थित और playing in 1919.
The Packers are the तभी non-profit, community-owned प्रमुख लीग पेशेवर खेल team in the United States.
The पैकर्स हैं the पिछला vestige of `` छोटी कस्बा टीमों '' कि यहूद once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on जिससे the टोली plays ) और जार्ज व्हिटनी calhoun, the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional टीमों in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 और 1920 the पैकर्स competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to कया is ज्ञात आज as the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base and मीडिया extends into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the टोली भी निभाई चयनित घर खेल वहीँ between 1933 और 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than कोई अन्य टोली in the एनएफएल ), सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर कटोरी i ), 1968 ( सुपर कटोरी ii ), 1997 ( सुपर Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries साथ उनके nfc उत्तर ( formerly the nfc सेंट्रल ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the शिकागो bears, मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स और the डेट्रॉयट Lions.
the bears-packers फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास, dating back to 1921.
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl दारू ), the वही प्रकार of दारू मिला in alcoholic beverages.
It is most प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a मोटर ईंधन, मुख्यतः as a biofuel additive for gasoline.
World ethanol production for हस्तांतरण ईंधन tripled between 2000 और 2007 इससे 17 अरब to अधिक than 52 billion liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of इथेनॉल in वैश्विक गैसोलीन प्रकार ईंधन उपयोग increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ), साथ the संयुक्त राज्य as the शीर्ष निर्माता साथ 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ), हिसाब लिये 62.2 % of वैश्विक उत्पादन, followed by ब्राज़ील साथ 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ).
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon equivalency `` ( gge ) मान of, जिससे अर्थात् 1.5 गैलन of इथेनॉल उपज the उर्जा of एक gallon of gasoline.
Ethanol fuel is widely used in ब्राज़ील और in the संयुक्त राज्य, और साथ दोनो देशों यहूद जिम्मेदार लिये 87.1 % of the संसार 's ethanol fuel production in 2011.
सबसे गाड़ियाँ on the सड़क आज in the u.S. can चलाएं on मिश्रणों of up to 10 % इथेनॉल, और इथेनॉल represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic sources in 2011.
चूंकि 1976 the ब्राज़ीलियाई सरकारी रै बना it अनिवार्य to मिश्रण इथेनॉल साथ गैसोलीन, and since 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25 ).
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 लाख flex-fuel ऑटोमोबाइल और लाइट ट्रक और 1.5 लाख flex-fuel मोटरसाइकिल कि regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ).
Bioethanol is a रूप of बेदर्दी उर्जा कि can be produced from agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made from very common फसलों ऐसे as शुगर cane, आलू, manioc और corn.
There रै महरूम considerable बहस परिचय कैसा उपयोगी bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline.
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large राशि of arable जमीन जरूरी लिये फसलों, as खूब as the उर्जा और प्रदूषण संतुलन of the पूरे साईकिल of इथेनॉल उत्पादन, विशेषकर इससे मकई.
हाल developments साथ cellulosic इथेनॉल उत्पादन और व्यावसायीकरण may allay some of these concerns.
Cellulosic ethanol offers वादा क्युकी cellulose मछली, a प्रमुख और सार्वभौमिक घटक in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं दीवारें, can be used to produce ethanol.
According to the International Energy Agency, cellulosic इथेनॉल could allow इथेनॉल fuels to खेल a much बडे भूमिका in the भविष्य than previously thought.
Saab 9-3 sportcombi biopower.
The second E85 flexifuel मॉडल introduced by साब in the स्वीडिश मार्केट.
A plaque commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो हत्या और कदम of gavrilo princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987, पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो हत्या ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, वारिस presumptive to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन, और उसके बीवी, सोफी, duchess of hohenberg, यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by gavrilo Princip, one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the हत्या थी to ब्रेक बंद austria-hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives were सतत साथ the गति कि बाद became known as Young Bosnia.
सर्बियाई सैन्य अधिकारियों stood पीछे the attack.
At the top of ये सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों थी मुख्य of सर्बियाई सैन्य प्रज्ञा dragutin dimitrijević, उसके righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
प्रमुख tankosić हथियारबंद the हत्यारे with bombs and pistols and trained them.
The assassins were given अभिगम to the वही clandestine टनल of safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The हत्यारे, the कुंजी सदस्यों of the clandestine टनल, और the कुंजी सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों जो were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were arrested in बोस्निया यहूद आजमाया in साराजेवो in अक्तूबर 1914.
The अन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों यहूद गिरफ्तार और आजमाया पहले a सर्बियाई कंगारू अदालत on the french-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations आता इससे ये दो ट्रायल और सम्बन्धित रिकॉर्ड.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly विवादास्पद क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i one month later.
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born अप्रैल 25, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी actress and producer.
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her भूमिका in the फिल्मी जेरी मैग्वायर ( 1996 ), और subsequently प्राप्त दो nominations लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as Bridget Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
She won the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the drama Cold Mountain ( 2003 ).
She has won an Academy Award, three Golden Globe Awards, three Screen Actors Guild Awards, and a BAFTA Award ; was नामित hasty खीर 's स्त्री of the साल in 2009 ; और स्थापित herself as एक of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest bones in the इंसान देह, the malleus, the incus और the stapes.
They are contained within the middle ear स्पेस और serve to संचारण ध्वनि इससे the एयर to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
The absence of the auditory ossicles होता constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss.
The term `` ossicles '' वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` छोटा हड्डियों '' और commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, हालांकि the पद may refer to कोई छोटी अस्थि throughout the body.
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical निर्वचन originally निकला इससे a phrase in the किताब of यिर्मयाह, in the Hebrew Scriptures.
It is often thought of as an eschatological Messianic आयु or संसार to आइये और is सम्बन्धित to the biblical अवधारणा of the किंगडम of परमेश्वर.
generally, ईसाइयों मानना कि the नई वचन थी instituted at the पिछला Supper as part of the Eucharist, which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment.
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New वचन, as an उदाहरण an उदघाटन eschatology defines और describes the नई वचन as an जारी संबंध between ईसाई ईमानवालों और परमेश्वर कि होगा be in पूरा फलीभूत बाद the दूसरी coming of मसीह ; कि is, it will not only be in full fruition in believing hearts, but in the future external world as well.
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the नई वचन is देखी in सबसे आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of the नई वसीयत साथ the saying : `` इस कप कि is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood ''.
Christians believe that Jesus is the मध्यस्थ of the नई वचन, और कि the रक्त of मसीह शेड at उसके crucifixion is the जरूरी रक्त of the covenant.
As with all covenants between God and man वर्णित in the बाइबल, the नई वचन is माना `` a बंध in रक्त sovereignly administered by God. ''
It has been theorized that the New Covenant is the विधि of मसीह as बोला दौरान उसके उपदेश on the Mount.
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य दस्तावेज़ the सबसे prominent मामले of each presidency.
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II, Section 2, clause 1 ), राष्ट्रपतियों have the शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया in एक or अधिक of the following तरीके : the ability to grant a full pardon, to commute a sentence, or to rescind a fine.
U.S. Presidents have no शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया लिये अपराधों prosecuted under state law.
as to the अंतर between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम vacating a conviction.
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of किसी फिलहाल सेवारत a वाक्य लिये a अपराधों pursuant to a conviction, बगैर vacating the conviction itself.
Approximately 20,000 pardons और clemencies यहूद जारी by u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों in the 20th century alone.
The records of अधिनियमों of दया यहूद पब्लिक जबतक 1934.
In 1981 the दफ्तर of the pardon attorney थी निर्मित और रिकॉर्ड इससे President H. W. Bush forward are now listed.
This सूची शामिल pardons और commutations.
Tampa ( ) is a नगर in the u.S. राज्य of फ्लोरिडा.
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is स्तिथ on the वेस्ट coast of फ्लोरिडा, on tampa खाड़ी निकट the गल्फ of मैक्सिको.
The population of tampa in 2011 थी 346,037.
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by स्वदेशी peoples of the सुरक्षा हार्बर संस्कृति, सबसे notably the tocobaga and the Pohoy, who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay.
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century, but there यहूद no स्थाई अमरीकी or यूरोपीय settlements भीतर आज 's नगर हद until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819.
In 1824, the United States Army established a frontier outpost called Fort ब्रुक at the मुँह of the hillsborough नदी, निकट the साईट of आज 's tampa सम्मेलन बीच.
The first civilian निवासियों यहूद pioneers जो settled निकट the फोर्ट लिये सुरक्षा from the nearby Seminole population.
the कस्बा grew धीरे जबतक the 1880s, जब रेलरोड कड़ी, the डिस्कवरी of फास्फेट, और the आगमन of the सिगार उद्योग jump-started tampa 's विकास and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s.
Today, Tampa is a भाग of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल सबसे commonly referred to as the tampa Bay Area.
For U.S. Census purposes, Tampa is भाग of the tampa-st. petersburg-clearwater, फ्लोरिडा महानगर Statistical Area.
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents, making it the दूसरी largest महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) in the राज्य, और the चौथी largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, पीछे मियामी, वॉशिंगटन, d.C., और अटलांटा.
The Greater Tampa Bay area has just over 4 million residents और generally शामिल the tampa और sarasota मैट्रो क्षेत्रों.
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data showed an औसत सालाना विकास of 2.47 प्रतिशत, or a लाभ of लगभग 97,000 निवासियों per year.
Between 2000 and 2006, the Greater Tampa Bay Market experienced a combined growth rate of 14.8 प्रतिशत, growing इससे 3.4 लाख to 3.9 लाख और hitting the 4 लाख people mark on April 1, 2007.
A 2012 अनुमान shows the tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल जनसांख्यिकी to have 4,310,524 लोगों और a 2017 projection of 4,536,854 people.
Tampa has a number of sports teams, such as the tampa खाड़ी buccaneers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग, the tampa खाड़ी बिजली of the नेशनल हॉकी लीग, और the tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League.
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग खेल उनके घर खेल in neighboring st. पीटर्सबर्ग, Florida.
In 2008, Tampa was क्रमित as the 5th बेहतरीन बाहरी नगर by फोर्ब्स.
A 2004 सर्वेक्षण by the nyu समाचारपत्र वॉशिंगटन वर्गाकार न्यूज क्रमित tampa as a शीर्ष नगर for `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is now ranked as a `` गामा '' संसार नगर by loughborough विश्वविद्यालयों.
According to loughborough, tampa बाँधने alongside अन्य संसार शहरों such as Phoenix, Santo Domingo, and Osaka.
In recent years Tampa has देखी a notable upsurge in high-market माँग इससे उपभोक्ता, signaling अधिक माल concentrated in the area.
tampa hosted the 2012 रिपब्लिकन National Convention.
The शेवरलेट cavalier थी a कॉम्पैक्ट ऑटोमोबाइल उत्पादित from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors.
Built on the कम्पनी 's j मंच, the cavalier produced the highest sales in 1984.
AT & T Mobility LLC branded और referred to as at & t ( formerly cingular बेतार llc ), is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of at & t inc. कि provides wireless services to 107 million subscribers in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
AT & T गतिशीलता is the दूसरी largest बेतार दूरसंचार प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य और प्यूर्टो रीको, पीछे Verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012.
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the lenox पार्क क्षेत्रफल of dekalb co. जॉर्जिया, just outside Atlanta.
originally cingular बेतार llc इससे 2000 to 2007, a संयुक्त venture between sbc संचार और bellsouth, the कम्पनी acquired the बूढ़ा at & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
cingular became wholly स्वामित्व by at & t in दिसम्बर 2006 as a result of AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth.
In January 2007, Cingular confirmed it होता re-brand itself अंतर्गत the at & t नाम.
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately, लिये दोनो नियामक और brand-awareness कारण दोनो ब्रांड्स यहूद प्रयुक्त in the कम्पनी 's साइनेज और विज्ञापन दौरान a transition period.
The transition concluded in लेट जून, बस prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
On March 20, 2011, at & t गतिशीलता घोषित इसके इरादे to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion.
If it had received government and regulatory स्वीकृति, at & t होता have था अधिक than 130 million subscribers.
However, the u.S. विभाग of इंसाफ, the संघीय संचार आयोग, और at & t गतिशीलता 's प्रतिस्पर्धी ( ऐसे as स्प्रिंट nextel ) opposed the मूव on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market.
In December 2011, in the फेस of दोनो सरकारी और फैली उपभोक्ता विपक्ष, at & t withdrew उनके offer to complete the merger.
Martin Luther King, Jr. ( जनवरी 15, 1929 – अप्रैल 4, 1968 ) थी an अमरीकी clergyman, activist, and leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
He is best known for his role in the उन्नति of सिविल अधिकारों using nonviolent सिविल disobedience.
King has become a नेशनल प्रतीक in the इतिहास of अमरीकी प्रगतिवाद.
A Baptist minister, King became a सिविल अधिकारों activist जल्दी in his career.
He led the 1955 मोंटगोमरी बस बहिष्कार और helped मिला the दक्षिणी ईसाई नेतृत्व Conference ( SCLC ) in 1957, serving as its first president.
With the SCLC, King led an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in Albany, Georgia, in 1962, और व्यवस्थित nonviolent विरोध in बर्मिंघम, अलबामा, कि आकर्षित नेशनल ध्यान following टेलीविज़न न्यूज कवरेज of the brutal police response.
King also helped to organize the 1963 कूच on वॉशिंगटन, जहाँ he delivered his `` I Have a Dream `` speech.
There, he established his reputation as एक of the महानतम orators in अमरीकी इतिहास.
He also established his reputation as a radical, and became an object of the संघीय ब्यूरो of छानबीन 's cointelpro लिये the बाकी of उसके जीवन.
FBI agents investigated उसे लिये संभावित कम्युनिस्ट ties, अंकित उसके extramarital liaisons और reported on उन्हें to सरकारी officials, और on एक अवसर, mailed किंग a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide.
On October 14, 1964, किंग प्राप्त the नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार लिये combating जातिगत असमानता through nonviolence.
In 1965, he और the sclc helped to व्यवस्थित the selma to मोंटगोमरी marches और the following year, he took the movement north to Chicago.
In the final years of his life, किंग विस्तारित उसके फ़ोकस to शामिल गरीबी और the वियतनाम युद्ध, alienating अनेक of उसके liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
King was planning a नेशनल occupation of वॉशिंगटन, d.C., पुकारा the Poor People 's Campaign.
किंग थी assassinated on अप्रैल 4, 1968, in Memphis, Tennessee.
His मौत थी followed by दंगे in many U.S. cities.
Allegations that James Earl Ray, the man convicted of killing King, had been framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट साथ सरकारी एजेंटों persisted लिये दशकों बाद the शूटिंग, और the जूरी of a 1999 सिविल विचारण मिला loyd jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King.
King was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the congressional सुनहरा पदक मरणोपरांत.
Martin Luther किंग, jr. दिन थी स्थापित as a u.S. संघीय holiday in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the u.S. have महरूम renamed in उसके सम्मान.
A memorial प्रतिमा on the नेशनल मॉल थी खोली to the public in 2011.
The tiger ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest बिल्ली प्रजाति, reaching a कुल देह लंबाई of up to and weighing up to.
It is the तीसरा largest जमीन carnivore ( पीछे only the polar bear and the brown bear ).
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of अंधेरा लंबवत धारियाँ on reddish-orange फर साथ a lighter underside.
It has exceptionally stout teeth, and the canines हैं the longest among जीना felids साथ a क्राउन ऊँचाई of as much as or even.
In zoos, tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years, which भी seems to be उनके आयु in the wild.
They are territorial and generally एकान्त लकिन सोशल पशु, प्रायः requiring विशाल संलग्न क्षेत्रों of आवास कि support their prey requirements.
This, coupled with the fact that they are स्वदेशी to कुछ of the अधिक densely आबादी स्थान on धरती, रै caused significant conflicts with humans.
Tigers once ranged widely across एशिया, इससे तुर्कों in the west to the eastern coast of Russia.
Over the past 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their historic range, and have महरूम extirpated इससे दक्षिणपश्चिम और सेंट्रल एशिया, इससे the आइलैंड्स of जावा और bali, और इससे large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia.
Today, वे दायरा इससे the siberian ताइगा to खोलें grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps.
The remaining six tiger subspecies have महरूम वर्गीकृत as endangered by IUCN.
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals, down from around 100,000 at the प्रारंभ of the 20th सदी, साथ सबसे बाकी populations occurring in छोटी pockets पृथक इससे प्रत्येक अन्य.
Major कारण लिये जनसांख्यिकी मनाही शामिल आवास विनाश, आवास fragmentation and poaching.
The extent of area occupied by tigers is अनुमानित at कम than, a 41 % मनाही from the area estimated in the mid-1990s.
Tigers are among the most recognisable और लोकप्रिय of the संसार 's charismatic megafauna.
They have प्रदर्शित prominently in प्राचीन mythology और लोकगीत, और continue to be depicted in modern films and literature.
टाइगर्स appear on अनेक ध्वज, coats of arms, and as mascots for sporting teams.
The Bengal tiger is the नेशनल एनिमल of दोनो इण्डिया और बांग्लादेश.
The सरलीकृत आतंरिक ढांचा of a हरितलवक
अवलोकन of the calvin साईकिल and carbon fixation
The light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis हैं रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ कि बदलें कार्बन dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक बाहर of the thylakoid membranes.
These प्रतिक्रियाएँ लो the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ and perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively पुकारा the calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation, कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ, और ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its नाम, इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी जब लाइट is available.
Plants do नहीं carry आउट the calvin साईकिल by night.
They, instead, रिलीज sucrose into the फ्लोएम इससे उनके मंड reserves.
This process happens when light is उपलब्धियाँ स्वतंत्र of the दयालु of photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation, c4 कार्बन fixation, और crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; कैम पौधे store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
A linen रूमाल साथ खींचा लड़ी कढ़ाई around the किनारे
Linen cloth बरामद इससे qumran गुफा 1 निकट the मुर्दे समुद्र.
Linen ( ) is a textile made इससे the मछली of the flax संयंत्र, linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, लकिन जब it is बना into garments, it is valued for its exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather.
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin और cognates साथ the लैटिन नाम लिये the flax संयंत्र linum, और the पहले यूनानी λινόν ( linon ).
इस शब्द इतिहास रै दिए वृद्धि to a क्रमांक of अन्य शर्तें in अंग्रेज़ी, the सबसे notable of जिससे is the English word line, derived from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line.
वस्त्र in a लिनेन बुनते बनावट, भी जब बना of कपास, गांजा और अन्य non-flax मछली are also loosely referred to as `` linen ''.
Such fabrics generally have their own specific names अन्य than लिनेन ; लिये उदाहरण, ठीक कपास धागे in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam.
The collective term `` linens `` is स्टिल प्रायः प्रयुक्त generically to describe a क्लास of woven और भी knitted bed, bath, table and kitchen textiles.
The name linens is retained क्युकी traditionally, लिनेन थी प्रयुक्त लिये many of these items.
In the पास्ट, the शब्द `` linens '' थी भी प्रयुक्त to औसत lightweight undergarments ऐसे as शर्ट, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a शब्द also cognate with linen ), and detachable shirt collars and cuffs, which were historically made almost exclusively out of linen.
The inside cloth layer of fine composite clothing garments ( as लिये उदाहरण jackets ) थी traditionally बना of लिनेन, और इस is the origin of the word lining.
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the world : उनके इतिहास goes वापस अनेक हज़ारों of सालो.
Fragments of straw, बीज, मछली, yarns, और विभिन्न प्रकार of fabrics जिससे तिथि वापस to परिचय 8000 bc have महरूम मिला in स्विस झील dwellings.
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in Georgia suggest the use of woven linen fabrics इससे जंगली flax may तिथि वापस भी पहले to 36,000 BP.
Linen was sometimes प्रयुक्त as करेंसी in प्राचीन Egypt.
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in लिनेन क्युकी it थी देखी as a प्रतीक of लाइट और पवित्रता, और as a display of wealth.
Some of these fabrics, woven from hand spun yarns, यहूद बहुत ठीक लिये उनके दिन, लकिन हैं coarse compared to आधुनिक लिनेन.
Today, linen is प्रायः an महंगी वस्त्र, और is उत्पादित in relatively small quantities.
it रै a long `` स्टेपल '' ( व्यक्तिगत रेशा लंबाई ) सापेक्ष to कपास और other natural fibers.
Many products are made of लिनेन : aprons, बैग, तौलिये ( swimmers, नहाना, बीच, देह और धो तौलिये ), napkins, bed linens, लिनेन चौके, धावक, chair covers, and men 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The चैंपियनशिप रै महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The वर्तमान champions हैं स्पेन, जो won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the संसार कप Finals.
A qualification phase, जिससे फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
the 19 संसार कप tournaments have महरूम won by eight different national teams.
Brazil have जीती पाँच टाइम्स, और वे हैं the तभी टोली to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with चार शीर्षक ; जर्मनी, साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
the अगला तीन संसार cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
The is an expansion यंत्र लिये the वी रिमोट वीडियो खेल नियंत्रक लिये the वी कि allows it to अधिक accurately capture complex motion.
According to Nintendo, the सेंसर in the यंत्र पूरक the accelerometer और सेंसर बार सामर्थ्य of the वी रिमोट to enable क्रियाएँ to be rendered identically on the screen in real time.
The Wii 's successor console, the Wii U, supports the वी motionplus और इसके peripherals in खेल जहाँ उपयोग of इसके touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary.
Majulah Singapura ( onward सिंगापुर ) is the नेशनल anthem of Singapore.
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a थीम सोंग लिये आधिकारिक कृत्यों of the नगर परिषद of सिंगापुर, the सोंग थी selected in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government.
Upon full स्वतंत्रता in 1965, majulah singapura थी formally अपनाया as सिंगापुर 's national anthem.
By law the anthem may only be sung with इसके असली मलय गीत, हालांकि वहीँ मौजूद प्राधिकृत अनुवाद of the गीत of the गान in सिंगापुर 's three other official languages : English, Mandarin and Tamil.
Originally composed in the key of G प्रमुख, in 2001 the नेशनल गान थी officially relaunched in the निम्नतर कुंजी of f प्रमुख as इस थी कहा to allow लिये a `` grander और more inspiring arrangement ''.
The नेशनल गान is regularly performed or सुंग in स्कूलों और हथियारबंद शक्तियां शिविरों at ceremonies आयोजित at the शुरूआत and/or the समाप्त of प्रत्येक दिन, during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken.
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on अवसरों of नेशनल जश्न or नेशनल significance ऐसे as at the नेशनल दिन परेड, at नेशनल दिन observance ceremonies conducted by शैक्षणिक संस्थानों और सरकारी विभाग, and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights भवन a brigantine, 1541.
Shipbuilding is the निर्माण of जहाजों और फ्लोटिंग vessels.
It normally takes प्लेस in a specialized facility known as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, भी पुकारा shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation कि traces इसके जड़ें to before recorded history.
Shipbuilding and ship repairs, दोनो वाणिज्यिक और सैन्य, हैं referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
The निर्माण of नौकाएँ is a समान activity called boat building.
The dismantling of जहाजों is पुकारा जलयान तोड़कर.
Wakonda is a town in मिट्टी काउंटी, दक्षिण डकोटा, संयुक्त States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 321 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations, सहित नगर, कस्बा, गाँव, बरो, और नगरपालिका.
A few exceptional Census designated स्थान ( cdps ) हैं भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government कि शामिल the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of a काउंटी, or काउंटी समतुल्य.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, शामिल अनेक incorporated places.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of ऐसे संचित city-counties कि हैं नहीं a part of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the जनसांख्यिकी of व्यक्तिगत municipalities भीतर उनके पारिभाषित हद, जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different रैंकिंग is evident जब considering u.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
alt=larger flashcart, दिखाया साथ छोटी कार्ड and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress बिंब, homebrew वीडियो खेल और डाउनलोड वाणिज्यिक खेल ( चूंकि the Nintendo DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ).
Licensed developers, however, can use a ब्लू बुद्धिमान प्रणालियों नाइट्रो emulator बक्सा to फ्लैश cards.
These devices are भी ज्ञात as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There are two main classes of flashcarts : पुरानी डिवाइस जिससे अनुरूप in slot-2 ( the खेल लड़के अग्रिम खेल पाक स्लॉट ) और नए डिवाइस कि अनुरूप in slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically सस्ता due to economies of स्केल ( inherited इससे उनके उपयोग साथ खेल लड़के अग्रिम ), लकिन आवश्यकता a booting औजार in slot-1 in अनुक्रम to use the touch screen and other DS features.
Second-generation devices ( those which only use slot-1 ) do नहीं कार्य साथ gba homebrew, लकिन became कम महंगी और easier to उपयोग, rivaling अनेक Slot-2 devices in price.
First-generation डिवाइस शामिल gba फ्लैश कारतूस, gbamp cf, supercard, and M3.
Second-generation devices शामिल r4 क्रान्ति, cyclods, g6 रियल और ds-x.
The भंडार यंत्र either contains फ्लैश मेमोरी or a स्लॉट लिये a memory card to store homebrew.
Storage डिवाइस साथ a memory-card स्लॉट प्रायः have अधिक भंडार क्षमता than flash-memory devices.
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( mb ), memory-card क्षमता is प्रायः measured in मेगाबाइट ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and खेल लड़के अग्रिम roms ; खास सुविधाएँ ( ऐसे as क्षमता to खेल मीडिया फाइलें ) ; physical size and cost.
Strictly बोलना, a भंडार यंत्र is नहीं जरुरी लिये ds साथ flashme installed because homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB.
However, this is not an easily-portable विधि क्युकी the ds needs to be भीतर दायरा of a उपयुक्त Wi-Fi card.
are American लोगों of जापानी विरासत.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest Asian American communities, but in recent decades, it has become the छठे largest समूह at roughly 1,304,286, सहित those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 census, the largest Japanese American communities were found in कैलिफ़ोर्निया साथ 272,528, हवाई साथ 185,502, नई यॉर्क साथ 37,780, वॉशिंगटन साथ 35,008, और Illinois with 17,542.
Southern California has the largest japanese-american जनसांख्यिकी in उत्तर अमेरिका.
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which highlights significant उपलब्धियाँ और माइलस्टोन आधारित upon बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका 's singles चार्ट, सबसे notably the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100.
इस सूची spans इससे the समस्या दिनाँक January 1, 1955 to present.
The Billboard Hot 100 began साथ the समस्या दिनाँक अगस्त 4, 1958, और is फिलहाल the मानक लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक चार्ट in the United States.
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100, बिलबोर्ड प्रकाशित चार singles चार्ट : `` बेहतरीन विक्रेता in स्टोर्स '', `` सबसे निभाई by jockeys '', `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
These charts, जिससे ranged इससे 20 to 100 slots, were phased out at different times between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically not part of the Hot 100 chart इतिहास, उनके आंकड़ा is शामिल लिये कम्प्यूटेशनल उद्देश्य, और to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
All items listed below are from the Hot 100 era, unless otherwise विख्यात ( pre-hot 100 चार्ट ).
V is an American science fiction टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि भागा लिये दो सीज़न on एबीसी, from November 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson, the new series chronicles the arrival on Earth of a technologically उन्नत एलियन प्रजाति जिससे ostensibly आता in सलाम, लकिन दरअसल रै sinister motives.
V stars Morena baccarin, lourdes benedicto, मॉरिस शाहबलूत, जोएल gretsch, लोगन huffman, चार्ल्स mesure, एलिज़ाबेथ मिशेल, लौरा vandervoort and Scott Wolf, and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum, Yves Simoneau, Scott Peters, and Jace Hall.
The series was produced by The Scott पीटर्स कम्पनी, hdfilms और warner भाईs. टेलीविज़न.
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity, in which the participants use a Global positioning प्रणाली ( gps ) receiver or मोबाईल यंत्र और अन्य navigational तकनीकों to छुपा और तलाश containers, पुकारा `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
A typical cache is a small waterproof संग्राहक containing a logbook जहाँ the geocacher enters the तिथि they found it and signs it with their established code name.
After हस्ताक्षर into the log, the संचय जरूर be लगाई वापस exactly where the person found it.
Larger containers such as plastic भंडार containers ( tupperware or समान ) or ammunition बाक्स can भी contain वस्तुएं for trading, usually toys or trinkets of little value.
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop group that was originally रचित of krs-one, d-nice, और dj स्कॉट La Rock.
DJ स्कॉट la चट्टान थी murdered on अगस्त 27, 1987, महीने बाद the release of BDP 's debut album, Criminal Minded.
The name of the group, बोगी bas, गर्भाशयी इससे a उपनाम लिये the दक्षिण Bronx section of The Bronx, one of the five boroughs of New York City.
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall रेगी और हिप हॉप म्यूज़िक और उनके डेब्यू lp दण्ड minded contained फ़्रैंक descriptions of life in the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap.
A नगरपालिका बंध is a बंध जारी by a लोकल government, or their agencies.
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states, शहरों, काउंटी, redevelopment एजेंसियों, special-purpose जिले, स्कूल जिले, पब्लिक यूटिलिटी जिले, सरेआम स्वामित्व एयरपोर्ट और seaports, और any other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level.
Municipal bonds may be general दायित्वों of the जारीकर्ता or secured by निर्दिष्ट revenues.
In the United States, interest income received by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the आय कर of the राज्य in जिससे वे हैं जारी, हालांकि नगरपालिका bonds जारी लिये निश्चित उद्देश्य may not be tax exempt.
Unlike new समस्या स्टॉक्स कि हैं brought to मार्केट साथ दाम प्रतिबंध जबतक the सौदे is बेची, नगरपालिका bonds are free to trade at any time once they are purchased by the investor.
Professional traders regularly trade and retrade the वही bonds अनेक times a week.
`` Gim me कुछ lovin ' '' is a सोंग लिखा by स्टीव winwood, स्पेंसर डेविस और muff Winwood, and originally performed by The Spencer Davis Group.
The basic riff of the सोंग थी उधार इससे the होमर बैंको सोंग `` ( ai n't That ) A Lot of Love '', written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker.
`` Gim me Some lovin ' '' थी a uk # 2 in the पतझड़ of 1966 and a US # 7.
The song is ranked # 247 on the रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's सूची of the 500 महानतम गीतों of All Time.
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is अलग इससे कि जारी in the us on the संयुक्त कलाकारों लेबल, होने धीमा, and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single.
( the us संस्करण रै अधिक प्रायः महरूम प्रयुक्त on reissue cds, even those coming from Europe. )
the सिंगल सुविधाएँ the ध्वनि of the Hammond B-3 organ.
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an ऑनलाइन डेटाबेस of सूचना सम्बन्धित to films, टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम, and video games.
This includes actors, production क्रू कर्मियों, और fictional वर्ण प्रदर्शित in ये तीन विज़ुअल entertainment मीडिया.
It is one of the most popular online entertainment गंतव्यों, साथ over 100 लाख अद्वितीय उपयोक्ता प्रत्येक माह और a ठोस और rapidly growing mobile presence.
IMDb was शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर 17, 1990, और in 1998 was acquired by Amazon.com.
As of April 27, 2013, आईएमडीबी था 2,503,783 शीर्षक ( शामिल एपीसोड ) और 5,192,493 personalities in इसके डेटाबेस, as खूब as 43 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता.
the जालस्थल रै an Alexa rank of 48.
Fibre Channel Host बस एडाप्टर ( 64-bit pci-x card )
scsi मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware, a host controller, मेजबान एडाप्टर, or मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( hba ) connects a मेजबान प्रणाली ( the computer ) to other network and storage devices.
The terms are primarily used to refer to डिवाइस लिये connecting scsi, fibre चैनल और esata devices.
However, devices for connecting to IDE, ईथरनेट, firewire, usb और अन्य प्रणालियों may भी be पुकारा host adapters.
recently, the आगमन of iscsi और fibre चैनल over ईथरनेट रै brought परिचय ईथरनेट HBAs, which are different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines.
There are also converged HBAs that support दोनो ईथरनेट और fibre चैनल पुकारा converged संजाल Adapters ( CNAs ).
cashmere स्कार्फ
Modern men 's cashmere sweaters लिये बिक्री.
cashmere ऊन, प्रायः बस ज्ञात as cashmere, is a रेशा प्राप्त from Cashmere goats and other types of goat.
The word cashmere गर्भाशयी इससे an बूढ़ा स्पेलिंग of काश्मीर.
Cashmere is fine in बनावट, दमदार, लाइट, and soft.
Garments made from it provide बेहतरीन इन्सुलेशन.
In the United States, under the u.s. ऊन उत्पाद labeling अधिनियम of 1939, as amended, ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), राज्य कि a ऊन or textile product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool उत्पाद is the ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat मछली produced by a cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the रेशा of ऐसे ऊन उत्पाद करता नहीं exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 प्रतिशत ( by वज़न ) of cashmere मछली साथ औसत diameters that exceed 30 microns.
the औसत रेशा व्यास may be विषय to a गुणांक of विभिन्नता around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the संयुक्त राज्य, साथ स्टोर्स स्तिथ throughout the पूर्वी seaboard, in the मिडवेस्ट, on the वेस्ट coast और in the Southwest.
The कम्पनी थी संस्थापित in 1975 और is आधारित in Woodbury, New York.
On July 19, 2010, the कम्पनी घोषित कि it था दायर लिये bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
According to Furniture Today the company थी क्रमांक 48 among फर्नीचर रिटेलर साथ us $ 114 लाख in बिक्री लिये the year ending August 29, 2009.
It subsequently emerged from अध्याय 11 अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of इसके प्रमुख प्रदायक, the haining mengnu Group.
Egg roll is a पद प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक अलग भोजन around the world.
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are found in mainland China, many chinese-speaking regions of एशिया, और चाइनीज अप्रवासी समुदायों around the world.
Egg rolls as referred to in चीन.
In Guangdong and Hong काँग, अंडा फेंकें प्रायः refers to बिस्किट roll.
इस is a प्रकार of biscuit.
The संघटक शामिल अंडा, आटा और शुगर.
Egg roll also is a dish in Canton and Hong काँग, इस is प्रायः बना साथ vegetable.
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast और हैं नहीं as commonly खपत in the उत्तर और पश्चिमी parts of China.
In American Chinese भोजन, an अंडा फेंकें is a savory dish typically served as an appetizer.
It is usually stuffed with chicken, पोर्क or झींगा, गोभी, गाजर, टमाटर, सेम sprouts और अन्य सब्जियां, और तब गहन fried.
This variety of the egg roll is very आम और लोकप्रिय, आरपार भी क्षेत्रीय किस्में of अमरीकी चाइनीज खाना, और is प्रायः शामिल as भाग of a `` combination platter ''.
In Montreal, Canada, open-ended eggrolls हैं a jewish-chinese fusion dish.
They can be either कोषेर certified or merely कोषेर स्टाइल.
Pain and suffering is the legal term for the physical और emotional तनाव caused इससे an चोट ( देखिए भी पीड़ा और कष्ट ).
Some damages that might be under this category would be : aches, अस्थाई और स्थाई सीमाएं on कार्यकलाप, संभावित shortening of जीवन, अवसाद or scarring.
When दाखिल a मुकदमा as a परिणाम of an चोट, it is आम लिये किसी to seek money both in compensation for actual money that is lost and for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury.
In a suit, pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's अर्जी, or, alternatively, it is an तत्व of `` compensatory '' non-economic क्षतिपूर्ति कि allows रिकवरी लिये the दिमागी anguish and/or शारीरिक पीड़ा endured by the claimant as a परिणाम of चोट लिये जिससे the अभियोक्ता seeks redress.
Apart from money damages awarded in trial, money damages are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations, मध्यस्थता ( दोनो of जिससे may be अदालत annexed or गैर litigated दावा ) as खूब as in दिनचर्या बीमे settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by lawyers प्रायः उपस्थित मांगे to insurers to settle लिये धन.
These demand for bodily injury compensation monies often set out क्षतिपूर्ति कि हैं similarly प्रयुक्त in the अदालत litigated pleadings.
Demands are usually लिखा summaries of a claimant 's चिकित्सा परवाह और the तथ्य जिससे resulted in the injury.
Sample of a Medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी stampIn
the United राज्य और कनाडा, a medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी is a खास हस्ताक्षर guarantee for the transfer of securities.
It is a guarantee by the transferring वित्तीय संस्था कि the हस्ताक्षर is वास्तविक और the वित्तीय संस्था स्वीकृत देयता for any forgery.
Signature guarantees protect शेयरधारकों by preventing अनधिकृत हस्तांतरण और संभावित investor losses.
They also limit the देयता of the ट्रांसफ़र एजेंट जो स्वीकृत the certificates.
Different institutions have different policies as to what type of identification they require to provide the गारंटी और whether वे चार्ज a शुल्क लिये ऐसे service ( usually nominal if any ).
Most संस्थानों होगा नहीं गारंटी a हस्ताक्षर of किसी who has not already been their customer.
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary पब्लिक, in the भाव कि a `` हस्ताक्षर गारंटी '' is a प्रमाणन by the संस्था कि the हस्ताक्षर is authentic, and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily.
Some banks may no longer provide this service, however, अनेक स्टिल do as खूब as अन्य वित्तीय संस्थानों ऐसे as a बचत और लोन and Credit Unions.
At उनके एकमात्र discretion, ये संस्थानों may स्टिल decline to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees.
When US citizens are abroad, कुछ वित्तीय संस्थानों may accept संयुक्त राज्य दूतावास seals, in प्लेस of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp.
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on टर्मिनल द्वीप, लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, March 1956
The General Motors स्ट्रीटकार षड्यंत्र ( भी ज्ञात as the ग्रेट अमरीकी स्ट्रीटकार कांड ) refers to दोषारोपण और convictions in संबंध to a program by General Motors ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities.
Between 1936 and 1950, National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM, Firestone Tire, Standard Oil of California, Phillips Petroleum, Mack Trucks, and the संघीय अभियान्त्रिकी corporation—bought over 100 इलेक्ट्रिक surface-traction प्रणालियों in 45 शहरों सहित बाल्टीमोर, न्यूर्क, लॉस एंजिल्स, नई यॉर्क नगर, ओकलैंड और सैन डिएगो और परिवर्तित उन्हें into बस आपरेशन.
Several of the कंपनियाँ शामिल यहूद convicted in 1949 of षड्यंत्र to monopolize अंतरराज्यीय commerce but were acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies.
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby, who first drew attention to the कार्यक्रम in 1946, और तब ब्रैडफोर्ड C. snell, an anti-trust attorney लिये the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट जिनकी विवादास्पद 1974 गवाही to a सीनेट पूछताछ brought the समस्या to नेशनल जागरूकता.
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate विनाश of streetcars थी भाग of a larger रणनीति to धक्का the संयुक्त राज्य into automobile dependency.
अन्य कह कि स्वतंत्र आर्थिक कारकों brought परिचय परिवर्तन in the पारगमन प्रणाली, सहित the ग्रेट अवसाद, the पब्लिक यूटिलिटी पकड़कर कम्पनी अधिनियम of 1935, मजदूर अशांति, मार्केट शक्तियां, rapidly increasing traffic congestion, urban sprawl, taxation policies that favored private vehicle ownership, and general enthusiasm for the automobile.
One writer on the subject has suggested that snell और अन्य गिरी into simplistic षड्यंत्र सिद्धान्त सोच, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly, GM waged a war on electric traction.
It was बेशक an सब आउट उत्पीड़न, लकिन by no अर्थात् the सिंगल कारण लिये the विफलता of rapid transit.
Also, it is बस as साफ कि क्रियाएँ और inactions by सरकारी contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction. ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving प्रभावी rail-based शहरी हस्तांतरण प्रणालियों आधारित on streetcars or trams, सहित न्यूर्क, फिलाडेल्फिया, सैन फ्रांसिस्को, पिट्सबर्ग, and Boston ; others are re-introducing them.
The story has been explored several times in print, film and अन्य मीडिया, notably in जो framed रोजर खरगोश, लिया लिये a सवारी और the समाप्त of suburbia.
corwin हाउस, सलेम, मैसाचुसेट्स, built ca. 1660, First Period English
American colonial वास्तुकला शामिल अनेक भवन डिज़ाइन शैलियाँ संबद्ध साथ the औपनिवेशिक काल of the संयुक्त States, including First Period English ( late-medieval ), French Colonial, Spanish Colonial, Dutch Colonial and Georgian.
These styles are संबद्ध साथ the घरों, चर्च और सरकारी इमारतें of the काल from about 1600 through the 19th century.
`` In the Mood '' is a बिग बैंड era # 1 hit अंकित by अमरीकी bandleader ग्लेन Miller.
It अव्वल the चार्ट in 1940 in the u.S. और एक साल बाद थी प्रदर्शित in the movie Sun Valley Serenade.
In 1999, National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn Miller recording on RCA bluebird on the npr 100, the सूची of `` the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अमरीकी musical works of the 20th सदी ''.
वरुण logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed लोगों to `` लहरे '' the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग इससे labs and universities around the world.
Along with its sister प्रोजेक्ट, शुक्र, वरुण offers a अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent जलयान क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry आउट उनके शोध, जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely संचालित क्रॉलर.
A gramophone record, commonly known as a फोनोग्राफ रिकार्ड ( in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी ), विनाइल रिकार्ड ( in सन्दर्भ to विनाइल, the सामग्री सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त बाद परिचय 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a रिकार्ड '', is an एनालॉग ध्वनि storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed, modulated spiral groove.
The groove usually starts near the periphery और ends निकट the बीच of the disc.
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational speed at जिससे वे हैं निभाई ( `` 33 आरपीएम ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', इत्यादि. ), उनके समय क्षमता ( `` long playing '' ), their reproductive accuracy, or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '', `` Orthophonic '', `` full-range '', etc. ), and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono ``, `` stereo ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th सदी, replacing the फोनोग्राफ बेलन, साथ जिससे it था co-existed, by the 1920s.
by the लेट 1980s, डिजिटल मीडिया था gained a larger मार्केट share, and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991.
They continue to be manufactured and sold in the 21st century.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 लाख इकाई shipped, the सबसे in कोई साल चूंकि 1998 और the स्वरूप रै जारी to slowly regain popularity.
They हैं विशेषकर प्रयुक्त by djs और audiophiles लिये many types of music.
As of 2013, विनाइल रिकॉर्ड continue to be used for distribution.
Grassland in the सांता रोजा पठार, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
घासभूमि in the antelope घाटी, California
the konza tallgrass प्रेयरी in the चकमक पहाड़ियाँ of northeastern Kansas.
a घासभूमि in the Philippines.
an भीतरी मंगोलियाई घासभूमि in the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses ( पोएसी ), however sedge ( cyperaceae ) और फटाफट ( juncaceae ) परिवारों can भी be मिला.
Grasslands occur naturally on सब महाद्वीपों मगर Antarctica.
In temperate latitudes, such as northwestern Europe and the Great Plains and California in North America, देशी grasslands हैं वर्चस्व by बारहमासी गुच्छा ग्रास प्रजाति, whereas in warmer climates सालाना species form a greater component of the vegetation.
grasslands हैं मिला in सबसे ecoregions of the Earth.
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the शीतोष्ण grasslands, savannas, और shrublands बायोम ( ' ecosystem ' ), जिससे is एक of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface.
Henna ( lawsonia inermis, भी पुकारा हिना पेड़ ) or हिना is a flowering संयंत्र, the sole species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
The English नाम `` हिना '' आता इससे the अरबी ( ala-lc : ḥinnāʾ / सुनाया ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The name is also used for dye preparations derived from the संयंत्र, और लिये the आर्ट of अस्थाई गोदना आधारित on those dyes.
Henna रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता to डाई स्किन, बाल, और fingernails, as well as fabrics including Silk, wool and leather.
additionally, the नाम is misused लिये अन्य स्किन और बाल dyes, ऐसे as ब्लैक henna or neutral henna, which are not derived from the plant.
A thin film is a layer of material ranging from भिन्नों of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to अनेक micrometers in thickness.
Electronic semiconductor डिवाइस और ऑप्टिकल coatings हैं the प्रमुख अनुप्रयोग लाभकारी इससे thin-film construction.
A familiar application of पतला films is the household दर्पण, जिससे typically रै a पतला मेटल कोटिंग on the वापस of a चादर of glass to form a reflective interface.
The process of silvering थी एकबार commonly प्रयुक्त to produce mirrors.
A very-thin-film कोटिंग ( कम than a nanometer मोटा ) is प्रयुक्त to produce two-way mirrors.
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or ar, coatings ) हैं typically उन्नत जब the thin-film कोटिंग consists of अनेक परतों having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic structure of alternating thin films of अलग सामग्री may collectively रूप a so-called superlattice जिससे कारनामे the घटना of क्वांटम confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is being done with ferromagnetic और ferroelectric पतला films लिये उपयोग as computer memory.
It is also होने लागू to दवाएँ, via thin-film drug delivery.
Thin-films are used to उपज thin-film बैटरी.
पतला films हैं भी प्रयुक्त in dye-sensitized solar cells.
Ceramic thin films हैं in चौड़ी उपयोग.
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of पतला कोटिंग of ब्याज लिये सुरक्षा of substrate सामग्री विरूद्ध संक्षारण, ऑक्सीकरण और पहनें.
In particular, the use of such coatings on कटिंग टूल्स can extend the जीवन of ये वस्तुएं by several orders of magnitude.
Research is being किया on a नई क्लास of thin-film अकार्बनिक ऑक्साइड सामग्री, पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent आक्साइड, जिससे could be प्रयुक्त to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
Gears of War is a military science fiction third-person शूटर वीडियो खेल विकसित by एपिक खेल और प्रकाशित by microsoft Game Studios.
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और सबसे of यूरोपीय और शामिल a `` सीमित कलेक्टर 's संस्करण '' साथ added सामग्री और an आर्ट किताब titled नष्ट Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with लोगों can मक्खी और released a साल बाद, featuring नई सामग्री सहित अतिरिक्त अभियान स्तर, a नई एकाधिक खेल विधि, और खेल लिये खिड़कियाँ सजीव कार्यक्षमता.
The game focuses on the सैनिकों of डेल्टा स्क्वाड as वे wield a हताश, last-ditch attempt to सहेजें the बाकी इंसान निवासियों of the fictional ग्रह Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde.
The player assumes the role of मार्कस fenix ( लकिन can भी खेल as डोमिनिक सैंटियागो ), a पूर्व कैदी और war-hardened soldier.
The game is based on the उपयोग of कवर और रणनीतिक आग लिये the खिलाड़ी to अग्रिम through the scenarios ; a दूसरी player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist.
The game also features several ऑनलाइन एकाधिक खेल मोड्स लिये up to आठ खिलाड़ी.
Gears of War sold over three million नक़ल in बस टेन सप्ताह और थी the fastest-selling video game of 2005 as well as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during.
It currently stands as the 5th बेहतरीन selling एक्सबॉक्स 360 खेल of सब समय.
The game has since बेची over पाँच लाख नक़ल by सितंबर 2008.
The game was well received by आलोचकों, जो praised इसके gameplay और विस्तृत visuals, और it जीती अनेक `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006.
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War franchise, including the 2008 sequel Gears of युद्ध 2 और इसके follow-up, गियर्स of युद्ध 3, जिससे थी released on सितंबर 20, 2011, बाद having initially महरूम नियत to have महरूम released on अप्रैल 5, 2011, the तिथि upon जिससे एपिक खेल ' चट्टान bleszinski थी a अतिथि on लेट रात्रि साथ Jimmy Fallon.
Adaptations to books, comics, as खूब as a विशेषता फिल्मी हैं to be expected.
A Tree Grows in ब्रुकलीन is a 1943 अनोखा लिखा by Betty Smith.
the स्टोरी focuses on an irish-american family in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York City.
The अनोखा is नियत in the पहला और दूसरी दशकों of the 20th century.
The book थी an immense कामयाबी.
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of स्वर्ग, देशी to चीन और ताईवान, अभी माना हृदयरोग, और आम in the vacant लोट of New York City.
World map with the intertropical मण्डल highlighted in रेड.
Tropical climate zones of the Earth जहाँ सब बारह महीने have औसत temperatures ऊपर 18 °C ( 64 °F ).
The tropics is a region of the धरती surrounding the equator.
it is सीमित in अक्षांश by the tropic of कर्कट in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध at लगभग n और the tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth.
The tropics are also referred to as the तीव्र मण्डल और the torrid मण्डल ( देखिए भौगोलिक मण्डल ).
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth जहाँ the सूर्य पहुँच a पाइंट सीधे ओवरहेड at तनिक एकबार दौरान the solar year.
The tropics are distinguished from the अन्य climatic और biomatic regions of धरती, the मध्य latitudes और the ध्रुवीय regions on either side of the equatorial zone.
For the inxs सोंग, देखिए What You Need ( song ).
`` What तुम need '' is an एपीसोड of the अमरीकी टेलीविज़न anthology series The Twilight Zone.
It is आधारित on the छोटी स्टोरी of the वही name by Lewis Padgett ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, is the second-largest थिएटर जटिल in the संयुक्त राज्य, दूसरी तभी to नई यॉर्क नगर 's Lincoln Center ).
Constructed in a स्पैन of 19 महीने in the जल्दी 1920s, the थिएटर यहूद subsequently closed down, but were revived through a grassroots effort.
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a नई era of शहर पुनरोद्धार in क्लीवलैंड, और थी पुकारा `` एक of the शीर्ष टेन सफलताओं in Cleveland history. ''
The driver and यात्री सामने airbags, बाद having महरूम तैनात, in a British Peugeot 306 car.
an एयरबैग is a गाडी सुरक्षा device.
It is an occupant संयम प्रणाली consisting of a लचीली कपड़ा लिफाफा or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision.
Its purpose is to cushion occupants दौरान a क्रैश और provide सुरक्षा to उनके लाशें जब वे स्ट्राइक आंतरिक वस्तुएँ ऐसे as the steering wheel or a window.
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions, and sensors may तैनात एक or अधिक airbags in an प्रभाव मण्डल at परिवर्तनीय दरों आधारित on the प्रकार, कोण और गंभीरता of प्रभाव ; the एयरबैग is designed to तभी inflate in मॉडरेट to कठोर frontal क्रैश.
airbags हैं सामान्यतः designed साथ the इरादे of supplementing the सुरक्षा of an occupant who is correctly restrained with a seatbelt.
Most डिजाइन हैं inflated through pyrotechnic means and can only be operated once.
Newer side-impact एयरबैग मौड्यूल consist of संपीडित एयर सिलेंडर कि हैं triggered in the इवेंट of a side impact vehicle impact.
The first commercial designs यहूद introduced in यात्री ऑटोमोबाइल during the 1970s with limited success.
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and जल्दी 1990s साथ a ड्राइवर एयरबैग, और a सामने यात्री एयरबैग as खूब on कुछ गाड़ियाँ ; और अनेक आधुनिक वाहनों अभी include four or more units.
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to रपट वित्तीय सूचना to the आतंरिक आय सेवा ( irs ) of the United States.
They are used to report income, calculate कर to be सशुल्क to the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य, और ज़ाहिर अन्य सूचना as जरूरी by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ).
There हैं over 800 विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म और schedules.
The best-known of these is रूप 1040 प्रयुक्त by individuals.
In the United States, driver 's licenses are issued by each व्यक्तिगत राज्य ( सहित वॉशिंगटन, d.C. और territories ), बल्कि than the संघीय सरकारी क्युकी of the राजनैतिक concept of federalism.
ड्राइवर हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a अनुज्ञा इससे उनके राज्य of निवास और सब राज्य recognize प्रत्येक अन्य 's पंक्तियां लिये अस्थाई visitors subject to normal age requirements.
a राज्य may भी बर्खास्तगी an व्यक्तिगत 's ड्राइविंग विशेषाधिकार within its borders for traffic violations.
Many states share a common system of अनुज्ञा वर्ग, साथ कुछ अपवाद, और वाणिज्यिक अनुज्ञा वर्ग हैं मानकीकृत by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383.
China has been the source of अनेक आविष्कारों, सहित the चार ग्रेट आविष्कारों : papermaking, the कम्पास, बारूद, और मुद्रण ( दोनो woodblock and movable type ).
The list below contains ये और अन्य आविष्कारों.
The Chinese invented technologies involving यांत्रिकी, hydraulics, और गणित लागू to horology, metallurgy, खगोलशास्त्र, कृषि, engineering, music theory, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 bc ), वे था उन्नत metallurgic प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित the धमाका भट्टी और cupola भट्टी, while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
A sophisticated आर्थिक प्रणाली in चीन दिया जनम to आविष्कारों such as paper money during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ).
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the fire lance, land mine, naval मेरा, हाथ तोपों, exploding गोलों, multistage प्रक्षेपास्त्र, और प्रक्षेपास्त्र बम with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century कम्पास और क्षमता to steer at ऊँची समुद्र साथ the 1st-century sternpost अरित्र, premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt.
In water-powered clockworks, the premodern चाइनीज था प्रयुक्त the escapement यांत्रिकी चूंकि the 8th सदी and the endless power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th century.
They also बना विशाल mechanical कठपुतली थिएटर चलित by waterwheels और carriage पहियों और wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats.
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest पाषाणकालीन संस्कृतियों of चीन और यहूद formed around 7000 bc.
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic, prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives, stone hoes and spades, the cultivation of बाजरा, राइस और the सोयाबीन, the refinement of sericulture, the भवन of rammed धरती structures साथ लाइम -plastered हाउस floors, the सृष्टि of the कुम्हार 's व्हील, the सृष्टि of pottery साथ cord-mat-basket designs, the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers, and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination.
Francesca Bray argues कि the domestication of the ox और भैंस दौरान the longshan संस्कृति ( c. 3000–c. 2000 bc ) काल, the अनुपस्थिति of longshan-era सिंचाई or high-yield फसलों, पूरा प्रमाण of longshan cultivation of dry-land खाद्यान्न फसलों जिससे दिया ऊँची yields `` तभी जब the मृदा थी carefully cultivated, '' suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
With later आविष्कारों ऐसे as the multiple-tube बीज ड्रिल और भारी moldboard आयरन हल, चीन 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger population.
For the purposes of this list, inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China, और as ऐसे करता नहीं शामिल विदेशी technologies जिससे the चाइनीज acquired through सम्पर्क, ऐसे as the पवनचक्की इससे the मध्य ईस्ट or the telescope from Early modern Europe.
It also does not include technologies विकसित elsewhere और बाद invented separately by the चाइनीज, ऐसे as the ओडोमीटर and chain pump.
Scientific, mathematic or natural discoveries, परिवर्तन in नाबालिग अवधारणाओं of डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल और कलाकारी नवप्रवर्तनों can नहीं be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the list.
Gross घरेलू उत्पाद in 2011 us डॉलर प्रति capita, समायोजित लिये महंगाई और खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( log स्केल ) इससे 1860 to 2011, with population ( disk area ) for the US ( yellow ), UK ( orange ), Japan ( red ), China ( red ), and India ( blue ).
Globalization ( or globalisation—see spelling differences ) is the प्रक्रम of अंतरराष्ट्रीय संयोजन arising इससे the इंटरचेंज of संसार दृश्य, products, ideas, and other aspects of culture.
Put in simple terms, globalization refers to प्रक्रियाओं कि प्रचार world-wide exchanges of नेशनल और cultural resources.
Advances in transportation and telecommunications अवसंरचना, सहित the वृद्धि of the अंतरजाल, हैं प्रमुख कारकों in वैश्वीकरण, generating further interdependence of आर्थिक and cultural activities.
Though several scholars place the origins of वैश्वीकरण in आधुनिक टाइम्स, अन्य ट्रेस इसके इतिहास long पहले the यूरोपीय age of discovery and voyages to the New World.
Some even ट्रेस the origins to the तीसरा मिलेनियम BCE.
Since the beginning of the 20th century, the pace of globalization has intensified at a रैपिड रेट, विशेषकर दौरान the पोस्ट ठंडा युद्ध era.
The term वैश्वीकरण रै महरूम in increasing उपयोग चूंकि the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) पहचाना चार मौलिक पहलुओं of वैश्वीकरण : व्यापार और ट्रांजेक्शन, पूंजी और निवेश आंदोलनों, माइग्रेशन और गति of लोगों और the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental challenges such as climate change, cross-boundary जल और एयर प्रदूषण, और over-fishing of the समंदर हैं linked साथ वैश्वीकरण.
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and कार्य संगठन, अर्थशास्त्र, socio-cultural संसाधन, और the natural environment.
The Replacements is a 2000 American खेल कॉमेडी फिल्मी निर्देशित by हावर्ड deutch.
It stars Keanu Reeves, Gene hackman, और ब्रुक langton.
An अमरीकी एयरलाइंस वायुयान takes बंद इससे dallas/fort Worth International Airport.
This विमानक्षेत्र is the एयरलाइन 's largest hub.
American Airlines flies to 79 घरेलू गंतव्यों और 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्यों in 48 countries.
( as of दिसम्बर 2012 )
The list includes the city, country, the codes of the International Air Transport Association ( IATA airport कोड ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सिविल विमानन संगठन ( icao विमानक्षेत्र कोड ), और the विमानक्षेत्र 's नाम, साथ the एयरलाइन 's hubs, फ़ोकस शहरों और seasonal destinations marked.
The सूची भी contains गंतव्यों no longer परोसा by the एयरलाइन, which are marked as terminated destinations.
It does not include destinations परोसा लिये अमरीकी एयरलाइंस by इसके क्षेत्रीय affiliates अमरीकी त्रिभुज Airlines, Executive Airlines, and AmericanConnection.
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song, the best-known संस्करण of जिससे थी सुंग by हैरी belafonte और an वैकल्पिक संस्करण interspersed साथ another jamaican folksong, Hill and Gully Rider, by Dame Shirley Bassey.
Despite the song 's mento influences, `` Day-O ( The banana नाव सोंग ) '' is widely ज्ञात as an उदाहरण of कैलिप्सो म्यूज़िक.
It is a work song, from the point of दृश्य of डॉक मजदूर working the रात्रि शिफ़्ट लदान केले onto ships.
Daylight has आइये, the शिफ़्ट is over और वे want उनके कार्य to be गिने up so that they can go home.
World युद्ध i ( wwi ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, और the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, इटली did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the युद्ध : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
Ultimately, more than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the विरोध soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the जर्मनी कूच on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया और the sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
The युद्ध ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
The successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe थी redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य.
The League of Nations थी formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे विरोध.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to World War II.
नर्स जैकी is an अमरीकी श्रेणी कि premiered on जून 8, 2009, on Showtime, Movie Central and The Movie Network.
The series stars Edie Falco as the title अक्षर जैकी peyton, an आपात विभाग नर्स at सब संतो ' हॉस्पिटल in नई यॉर्क नगर.
For Jackie, `` Every दिन is a ऊँची तार अधिनियम of juggling मरीजों, डॉक्टर, fellow nurses and her own indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often referred to बस as the kardashians ) is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on अक्तूबर 14, 2007, on E !.
It follows the lives of the kardashian/jenner परिवार, सहित बहनों कोर्टनी, Kim, and Khloé Kardashian.
The series ' success रै led to the spin-offs कोर्टनी और किम लो नई यॉर्क, khloé & लैमर, कोर्टनी और Khloé Take Miami, and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the इस्लामी गणतंत्र of अफगानिस्तान, is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming part of South Asia, Central Asia, and to some extent Western Asia.
It has a जनसांख्यिकी of around 30 लाख inhabiting an क्षेत्रफल of लगभग, बनाना it the 42nd सबसे populous और 41st largest स्वदेश in the world.
It is bordered by पाकिस्तानी in the दक्षिण और the ईस्ट, इरान in the वेस्ट, तुर्कमेनिस्तान, उज़्बेकिस्तान और ताजिकिस्तान in the उत्तर, and China in the far northeast.
Afghanistan has been an प्राचीन फोकल पाइंट of the रेशा सड़क और इंसान माइग्रेशन.
Archaeologists have found evidence of इंसान habitation इससे as दूर वापस as the मध्य paleolithic.
Urban सभ्यता may have begun in the क्षेत्रफल as जल्दी as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the मध्य ईस्ट संस्कृति साथ सेंट्रल एशिया और the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप, the जमीन रै महरूम घर to विभिन्न peoples through the आयु और witnessed अनेक military campaigns, notably by Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan, and in modern era Western forces.
The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians, kushans, hephthalites, saffarids, ghaznavids, ghorids, khiljis, timurids, मुगलों, durranis, और अन्य have risen to form major empires.
The political history of the modern state of अफगानिस्तान begins in 1709, जब the hotaki राजवंश थी स्थापित in कांधार followed by अहमद शाह दुर्रानी 's rise to power in 1747.
In the लेट 19th सदी, अफगानिस्तान became a बफ़र राज्य in the `` Great Game `` between the British and Russian empires.
following the 1919 anglo-afghan युद्ध, किंग अमानुल्ला began a यूरोपीय स्टाइल modernization of the country but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives.
During the Cold War, after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring इण्डिया in 1947, the संयुक्त राज्य और the सोवियत संघ began spreading प्रभाव in अफगानिस्तान, जिससे led to a खूनी युद्ध between the us-backed मुजाहिदीन शक्तियां and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives.
This was followed by the 1990s सिविल युद्ध, the वृद्धि और पतन of the extremist तालिबान सरकारी और the 2001–present war.
In December 2001, the United Nations Security Council authorized the सृष्टि of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा सहायता फ़ोर्स ( isaf ) to सहायता maintain सुरक्षा in अफगानिस्तान और assist the Karzai administration.
Three decades of war made Afghanistan one of the world 's सबसे खतरनाक देशों, सहित the largest निर्माता of शरणार्थियों और asylum जरुरतमंदों.
While the अंतरराष्ट्रीय जातियाँ is पुनर्निर्माण war-torn अफगानिस्तान, आतंकवादी समूह ऐसे as the हक्कानी संजाल और hezbi islami हैं actively शामिल in a nationwide Taliban -led insurgency, which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks.
According to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the insurgents यहूद जिम्मेदार for 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
आठ बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना.
lincoln पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the southern economy.
The Eastern थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
in 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant कमांड of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी थिएटर, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
लागत of goods बेची ( cogs ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a business has sold during a particular period.
Costs are संबद्ध साथ particular goods using एक of अनेक formulas, including specific identification, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or average cost.
Costs include all लागत of खरीदें, लागत of परिवर्तन और अन्य लागत incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Costs of goods बना by the कारोबार शामिल सामग्री, मजदूर, and allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as costs of inventory जबतक the inventory is बेची or लिखा bas in मान.
Freak Lunchbox कैंडी स्टोर in halifax, Nova Scotia
A confectionery store ( अधिक commonly referred to as a मीठी दूकान in the संयुक्त किंगडम, a कैंडी स्टोर in the उत्तर अमेरिका, or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery and is usually targeted to children.
Most confectionery स्टोर्स हैं भर साथ an assortment of मिठाई दूर larger than a grocer or convenience store could accommodate.
They often प्रस्ताव a चयन of बूढ़ा fashioned ट्रीट, and sweets from different countries.
Very often अपरिवर्तित in लेआउट चूंकि उनके inception, confectioneries are known for their warming and nostalgic feel.
The गाँव of pateley सेतु दावा to have the oldest confectionery store in England.
The oldest मीठी दूकान in इंग्लैण्ड, in the गाँव of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in वेस्ट South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive और the 28th सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
The state 's name is derived from the choctaw शब्द okla और humma, अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '', और it is ज्ञात informally by इसके उपनाम, the sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma territory और भारतीय territory on नवम्बर 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', और इसके पूंजी और largest नगर is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and कृषि, ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन, उर्जा, दूरसंचार, and biotechnology.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, ranking among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय विकास और सकल घरेलू product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, साथ nearly दो तिहाई of oklahomans जीना भीतर उनके महानगर statistical areas.
With small mountain ranges, प्रेयरी, mesas, और पूर्वी वनों, सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s. आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, जर्मनी, स्कॉटिश, आयरिश और देशी अमरीकी ancestry, अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला in ओक्लाहोमा, दूसरी only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of तीन प्रमुख अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक regions और historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव, a destination for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Stacked और खड़ा car टायर
A tire ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped covering कि fits around a व्हील 's रिम to protect it और enable better vehicle performance.
Most tires, such as those लिये ऑटोमोबाइल और साइकिल, provide कर्षण between the गाडी और the सड़क जबकि providing a लचीली cushion that absorbs shock.
The materials of modern pneumatic tires हैं सिंथेटिक रबर, प्राकृतिक रबर, कपड़ा और तार, साथ साथ कार्बन ब्लैक और अन्य रासायनिक compounds.
They consist of a tread और a body.
The tread provides traction जबकि the देह provides containment लिये a मात्रा of संपीडित air.
Before rubber was developed, the पहला संस्करण of टायर यहूद बस bands of मेटल कि fitted around लकड़ी पहियों to prevent पहनें और आंसू.
जल्दी रबर टायर यहूद ठोस ( not pneumatic ).
Today, the बहुमत of टायर हैं न्यूमेटिक inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped देह of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of वाहनों, सहित गाड़ियाँ, साइकिल, मोटरसाइकिल, ट्रक, earthmovers, और वायुयान.
Metal tires are still used on इंजनों और railcars, और ठोस रबर ( or अन्य पॉलिमर ) टायर हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त in विभिन्न non-automotive applications, such as some casters, carts, lawnmowers, and wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph Warren ( जून 11, 1741 – जून 17, 1775 ) थी an अमरीकी डॉक्टर जो निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका in अमरीकी patriot संगठन in बोस्टन in जल्दी दिनों of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, आखिरकार सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the revolutionary Massachusetts Provincial Congress.
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18, 1775, to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the अंग्रेजों गैरीसन in बोस्टन थी सेटिंग आउट to रेड the कस्बा of concord और गिरफ़्तार विद्रोही नेताओ John Hancock and Samuel Adams.
Warren participated in the अगला दिन 's लड़ाइयों of lexington और concord, जिससे हैं commonly माना to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War.
Warren had been commissioned a प्रमुख सामान्य in the उपनिवेश 's मिलिशिया shortly पहले the जून 17, 1775 बैटल of Bunker Hill.
Rather than exercising his rank, Warren served in the battle as a निजी सिपाही, और थी मारे in कॉम्बैट जब अंग्रेजों सैनिकों stormed the redoubt atop नस्ल 's हिल.
His death, immortalized in जॉन trumbull 's पेंटिंग, the मौत of सामान्य वारेन at the बैटल of बंकर 's हिल, जून 17, 1775, जस्ती the विद्रोही शक्तियां, और he रै been memorialized in many place names in the United States.
stm चित्र of self-assembled supramolecular जंजीरों of the सशुल्क semiconductor Quinacridone on Graphite.
An सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is an सशुल्क सामग्री साथ सेमीकंडक्टर properties, that is, with an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals.
Single अणुओं, छोटी कड़ी ( oligomers ) और सशुल्क polymers can be semiconductive.
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the polycyclic खुशबूदार यौगिकों pentacene, anthracene, और rubrene.
polymeric सशुल्क semiconductors शामिल बहु ( 3-hexylthiophene ), बहु ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
There are two प्रमुख अतिव्यापी वर्ग of सशुल्क semiconductors.
These are सशुल्क charge-transfer देवालय और विभिन्न linear-backbone conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene.
Linear backbone organic semiconductors शामिल polyacetylene itself और इसके डेरिवेटिव polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
At least locally, charge-transfer देवालय प्रायः प्रदर्शनी समान conduction mechanisms to अकार्बनिक semiconductors.
ऐसे mechanisms उठता इससे the उपस्थिति of छेद और इलेक्ट्रॉन conduction layers separated by a band gap.
While such classic mechanisms are important locally, as with अकार्बनिक amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, स्थानीयकृत राज्य, गतिशीलता गैप, और phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction, particularly in polyacetylenes.
Like अकार्बनिक semiconductors, सशुल्क semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे as polyaniline ( ormecon ) and are also known as organic metals.
ठेठ वर्तमान वाहक in सशुल्क semiconductors are holes and electrons in π-bonds.
लगभग सब सशुल्क solids हैं insulators.
But when their constituent अणुओं have π-conjugate प्रणालियों, electrons can मूव via π-electron बादल overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling and related mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt crystals हैं उदाहरण of इस प्रकार of सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर.
Mainly due to low mobility, भी unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes.
Such unpaired electrons can फलन as current carriers.
This type of semiconductor is also obtained by pairing an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता अणु साथ an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor अणु.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females इससे the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the मादा urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are माना to be अलग phenomena in कुछ शोध publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of बहस among चिकित्सा पेशेवर, जिससे is भी सम्बन्धित to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition contested by the वरिष्ठ महिलाओं 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ), the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी देह.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1991.
Japan won the 2011 टूर्नामेंट in a दंड गोलीबारी.
The current format of the tournament involves 16 teams स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय तीन सप्ताह ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ साथ the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ).
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International competition in women 's फ़ुटबॉल और is निभाई amongst महिलाओं 's नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल टीमों of the सदस्य राज्य of फीफा, the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी देह.
the पहला महिलाओं 's संसार कप टूर्नामेंट, नामित the महिलाओं 's संसार Championship, was held in 1991, sixty-one years after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930.
the छह संसार कप tournaments have महरूम जीती by चार different national teams.
the अगला संसार कप होगा be hosted by Canada in 2015.
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by वाल्टर डीन मायर्स, पहला प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य by हार्पर & Row on June 20, 1988.
Front page of a 17th सदी यहूदी बाइबल by जोसेफ athias, अभी at Beth Hatefutsoth, Israel
'Son of man ' is the translation of various Hebrew और यूनानी वाक्यांश प्रयुक्त in दोनो the यहूदी बाइबल और the नई वसीयत.
It has diverse meanings, ranging from a सामान्य इंसान होने to a prophesied अनन्त, दैवी ruler.
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears एक सौ और सात टाइम्स in the Hebrew Bible.
This is the most common यहूदी निर्माण लिये the एकवचन लकिन is प्रयुक्त ज़्यादातर in ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere.
In thirty two cases the phrase appears in इंटरमीडिएट बहुवचन रूप `` बेटे of मेन '', i.e. इंसान beings.
As generally interpreted by यहूदियों, it denotes humankind generally.
In the koine यूनानी of the नई वसीयत, `` the बेटे of man '' is invariably प्रयुक्त as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article.
the उपयोग of the definite आलेख in `` the बेटे of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is अनोखा, और पहले इसके उपयोग वहीँ, no records of its use in any of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist.
Geza Vermes has stated that `` the Son of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is unrelated to यहूदी बाइबल usages.
In Christian usage, unlike the Son of God title, जिससे रै महरूम an अनिवार्य तत्व of ईसाई creeds चूंकि the अपोस्टोलिक आयु, the उदघोषणा of `` यीशु as the बेटे of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity.
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the नई वसीयत रै remained चुनौतीपूर्ण और बाद 150 सालो of बहस no सर्वसम्मति on the समस्या रै उभरा among scholars.
Master of foxhounds leads the फ़ील्ड इससे powderham किला in देवों, इंग्लैण्ड, साथ the hounds in front.
Fox hunting is an activity involving the ट्रैकिंग, पीछा, और sometimes हत्या of a फॉक्स, traditionally a रेड फॉक्स, by प्रशिक्षित foxhounds or अन्य सैंट hounds, और a समूह of निहत्थे अनुसरणकर्ता led by a निपुण of foxhounds, who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
Fox hunting originated in the रूप practised जबतक recently in the संयुक्त किंगडम in the 16th सदी, लकिन is practised सब over the संसार, सहित in Australia, Canada, France, Ireland, Italy and the United States.
In Australia, the पद भी refers to the शिकार of foxes साथ firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting.
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g., deer hunting with bow and तीर ) ; in ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड, `` शिकार '' बगैर योग्यता implies फॉक्स शिकार ( or अन्य फ़ॉर्म of शिकार साथ हाउंडs- beagling, स्टैग शिकार, मिंक शिकार, खीचें hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here.
The sport is controversial, particularly in the UK, where it was banned in Scotland in 2002, and in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स in नवम्बर 2004 ( विधि enforced इससे फ़रवरी 2005 ), हालांकि शूटिंग foxes as vermin remained legal.
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of ग्रामीण संस्कृति और उपयोगी लिये कारण of संरक्षण और pest कंट्रोल, जबकि प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि it is cruel and unnecessary.
Tobacco advertising is the advertising of tobacco उत्पाद or उपयोग ( typically सिगरेट धूम्रपान ) by the तम्बाकू उद्योग through a किस्में of मीडिया including sponsorship, particularly of sporting events.
it is अभी एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक regulated forms of marketing.
Some or all forms of tobacco advertising हैं बैन in अनेक देशों.
Bally Technologies, Inc. is a निर्माता of स्लॉट मशीने और अन्य गेमिंग प्रौद्योगिकी आधारित in Las Vegas, Nevada.
The कम्पनी थी संस्थापित in 1968 as उन्नत पेटेंट Technology.
It eventually changed its name to गठबंधन गेमिंग और acquired, in 1996, बल्ली गेमिंग अंतरराष्ट्रीय, a पूर्व प्रभाग of बल्ली निर्माण.
In 2006, the entire company adopted the बल्ली नाम, a ट्रेडमार्क कि originated in 1932 by the बल्ली निर्माण Corporation.
Gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; यहाँ, दांते is खोया in canto 1 of the inferno.
inferno ( इतालवी लिये `` नरक `` ) is the पहला भाग of Dante Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy.
It is followed by purgatorio और paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the यात्रा of दांते through नरक, हिदायत by the Roman poet Virgil.
In the कविता, नरक is चित्रित as नौ वृत्त of suffering located within the Earth.
Allegorically, the Divine Comedy represents the journey of the आत्मा towards परमेश्वर, साथ the inferno describing the मान्यता और rejection of sin.
Smirnoff is a brand of वोदका स्वामित्व और उत्पादित by the अंग्रेजों कम्पनी diageo.
The स्मरनॉफ ब्रांड began साथ a वोदका डिस्टिलरी संस्थापित in मास्को by pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
It is now वितरित in 130 countries.
It is produced in several देशों सहित इण्डिया, Ireland, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States.
स्मरनॉफ उत्पाद शामिल वोदका, flavoured vodka, and malt beverages.
In March 2006, Diageo North अमेरिका claimed कि स्मरनॉफ वोदका थी the best-selling आसुत स्पिरिट brand in the world.
Big Brown ( foaled अप्रैल 10, 2005 in केंटकी ) is a रिटायर्ड champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes.
करवाया by dr. गेरी B. नैप 's monticule खेतो in lexington, Kentucky, he won his first five race starts.
He was sired by ग्रेड iii विजेता boundary, a बेटे of उत्तर अमरीकी Champion sire Danzig, a son of Northern Dancer.
Big Brown 's dam was Mien, भी a पोती of उत्तरी नर्तकी through her sire, Nureyev.
The Serenity Prayer is the common name for an originally untitled दुआ by the अमरीकी theologian reinhold niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been अपनाया by alcoholics बेनाम और अन्य twelve-step programs.
The best-known form is : God, ग्रान्ट me the serenity to accept the बाते i can नहीं change,
The courage to बदलें the बाते i can,
And wisdom to जान the अंतर.
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial अधिकारों, or the घोषणा of अधिकारों ), थी a बयान अपनाया by the पहला महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on अक्तूबर 14, 1774, in जवाब to the असहनीय अधिनियमों passed by the British Parliament.
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the असहनीय अधिनियमों, सूचीबद्ध a औपनिवेशिक विधेयक of अधिकारों, और provided a विस्तृत सूची of grievances.
It was similar to the घोषणा of अधिकारों और grievances, passed by the स्टैम्प अधिनियम कॉंग्रेस a decade earlier.
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans : to enter into a boycott of British trade ( the महाद्वीपीय संघ ) जबतक उनके grievances यहूद redressed, to प्रकाशित पता to the लोगों of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और British America, and to send a petition to the King.
Pulse pressure is the दबाव कि is लगा जब अहसास the पल्स.
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), the pressure difference between the systolic और diastolic pressures is the दबाव बदलें to बनाएँ the पल्स, जिससे is the pulse pressure.
If resting रक्त दबाव is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), pulse pressure is 40.
The Hills is a reality टेलीविज़न श्रेणी जिससे originally aired on एमटीवी इससे may 31, 2006 until July 13, 2010.
The show uses a reality television format, following the personal lives of several young वयस्कों जीना in लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लकिन tends towards a कथा स्वरूप अधिक commonly मिला in scripted जाति ऐसे as soap operas.
The series originally followed the निजी जीवन of पूर्व लगुना बीच स्टार लॉरेन कोनराड और उसके मित्रों ' नई जीवनदान in Los Angeles.
After five seasons, Conrad left the series और थी replaced by another पूर्व लगुना बीच स्टार, kristin cavallari, beginning in the second half of the fifth season.
The series concluded at the समाप्त of the sixth season.
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on उनके सूची of `` the 100 बेहतरीन shows of the पिछला 25 सालो, '' stating कि the श्रेणी थी a `` नई क्लासिक. ''
AOL TV पुकारा it tv 's biggest अपराधी Pleasure.
The series premiered in syndication in the पतन of 2009 alongside लगुना बीच : the रियल Orange County.
In poker, bad beat is a subjective term for a हाथ in जिससे a खिलाड़ी साथ कया appear to be दमदार ताश nevertheless loses.
It most often occurs जहाँ एक खिलाड़ी bets the clearly stronger हाथ और their opponent makes a poor call that eventually `` hits '' and wins.
वहीँ is no सर्वसम्मति among पोकर खिलाड़ी as to कया exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will disagree about whether a particular hand was a bad beat.
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater मछली in the परिवार cyprinidae of अनुक्रम cypriniformes.
It was one of the earliest मछली to be domesticated, और is एक of the सबसे commonly रखा एक्वेरियम fish.
A relatively small member of the कार्प परिवार ( जिससे भी शामिल the कोई कार्प और the crucian कार्प ), the goldfish is a domesticated संस्करण of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia.
It was first domesticated in China more than a हजार सालो पहले, और अनेक पृथक breeds have since been developed.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in आकार, देह आकार, जोडे विन्यास और coloration ( विभिन्न combinations of श्वेत, पीला, नारंगी, red, brown, and black are known ).
uncooked rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a जर्मनी मांस roulade प्रायः consisting of बेकन, प्याज, सरसों और अचार लपेटा in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked.
in कुछ देशों, the roulade is also known as `` beef olive ''.
Beef or veal is used as मांस हालांकि कुछ खाना विद्वानों tend to मानना कि the असली संस्करण थी संभवतः venison or pork, and pork is still popular in some areas.
the बीफ rouladen as we जान उन्हें आज have become लोकप्रिय over the last century.
The cut is प्रायः topside बीफ or silverside चूंकि इस is the सस्ता cut.
The more महंगी संस्करण होता be the गोलाकार steak, also known as rump steak.
the मांस is काटें into विशाल, thin slices.
The filling is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork पेट, कटा प्याज और कटा अचार ( gurken ) जिससे is at टाइम्स varied by adding minced मांस, sausage meat, pine nuts and mustard.
The mixture varies इससे प्रदेश to region.
Rouladen are traditionally परोसा लिये डिनर.
रेड वाइन is प्रायः परोसा with this dish.
Typical eukaryotic कोशिका.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the कोशिकाएं of जीवों to बदलें biochemical उर्जा इससे nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ), और then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ, जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones, releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the कुंजी तरीके a कोशिका gains उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन सेल्यूलर activity.
Cellular respiration is माना an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रिया.
The overall reaction is broken into अनेक छोटी ones जब it occurs in the देह, सबसे of जिससे हैं रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves.
Although technically, सेल्यूलर श्वसन is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell.
इस अंतर is because it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it is a दहन reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly प्रयुक्त by एनिमल और संयंत्र कोशिकाएं in श्वसन शामिल शुगर, अमीनो acids और वसीय acids, और a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप, thereby transferring उर्जा लिये उपयोग by the कोशिका ) can तब be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
Countries by 2011 GDP ( nominal ) according to the सीआईए संसार factbook.
This article includes a list of countries in the संसार sorted by उनके सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ), the मार्केट मान of सब फाइनल goods and services from a nation in a given year.
The GDP dollar estimates प्रस्तुत यहाँ हैं गणना at मार्केट or सरकारी आधिकारिक एक्सचेंज rates.
Several economies जिससे हैं नहीं माना to be देशों ( संसार, the eu, और कुछ निर्भर territories ) हैं शामिल in the lists because they appear in the sources.
ये economies हैं नहीं क्रमित in the चार्ट यहाँ, लकिन हैं listed where applicable.
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different देशों, और the परिणाम can vary greatly इससे एक साल to another आधारित on fluctuations in the एक्सचेंज rates of the country 's currency.
Such fluctuations may बदलें a देश 's रैंकिंग इससे एक साल to the अगला, भी हालांकि वे प्रायः मेक छोटी or no difference to the standard of living of its population.
इसलिए ये आंकड़े चाहिए be used with caution.
Some countries/regions may have नागरिकों जिससे हैं on औसत धनवान.
ये countries/regions could appear in इस सूची as having a small GDP.
This would be because the country/region listed has a small population, और इसलिए छोटी कुल अर्थव्यवस्था ; the जीडीपी is गणना as the जनसांख्यिकी टाइम्स the माल per capita.
comparisons of नेशनल माल हैं भी अक्सर बना on the आधार of खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( ppp ), to समायोजन लिये मतभेद in the cost of living in different countries.
( See List of देशों by जीडीपी ( ppp ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem, but रै इसके अपना कमियां ; it करता नहीं प्रतिबिंबित the मान of आर्थिक आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार, और it भी requires more estimation than nominal GDP.
on the पूरे, ppp प्रति capita आंकड़े हैं अधिक narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita figures.
The first list includes data compiled by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र आंकडे प्रभाग लिये 2011.
The second सूची largely शामिल आंकड़ा ( अनुमान ) compiled by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Monetary Fund for 2012.
The third list shows the संसार बैंको 's ज़्यादातर 2011 estimates, और the चौथी सूची शामिल mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook.
lapping is a machining प्रक्रम, in जिससे दो सतहों हैं मला together with an abrasive between them, by hand movement or by way of a machine.
This can लो दो फ़ॉर्म.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally पुकारा पीस ), typically involves रगड़ a भंगुर सामग्री ऐसे as कांच विरूद्ध a सतह ऐसे as आयरन or कांच itself ( भी ज्ञात as the `` गोद '' or पीस औजार ) साथ an अक्खड़ ऐसे as एल्यूमिनियम ऑक्साइड, जौहरियों 's रूज, optician 's रूज, emery, silicon carbide, diamond, etc., in between them.
इस produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the अक्खड़ रोल्स परिचय between the two surfaces and removes material from both.
The other form of lapping involves a softer सामग्री ऐसे as पिच or a सिरेमिक लिये the गोद, जिससे is `` चार्ज '' साथ the अक्खड़.
The lap is then प्रयुक्त to काटें a harder material—the workpiece.
The abrasive embeds within the softer सामग्री जिससे holds it और permits it to स्कोर आरपार और काटें the harder material.
Taken to a finer limit, this will produce a polished सतह ऐसे as साथ a पॉलिशिंग cloth on an ऑटोमोबाइल, or a polishing cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel.
Taken to the ultimate limit, with the aid of accurate interferometry और specialized पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled हाथ पॉलिशिंग, lensmakers can उपज सतहों कि हैं flat to better than 30 nanometers.
इस is एक बीसवीं of the wavelength of लाइट इससे the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source.
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly बंधुआ ( optically contacted ) by bringing उन्हें साथ under the right conditions.
( This is not the same as the wringing effect of जोहानसन ब्लॉक, हालांकि it is समान ).
The term `` America 's Team '' is a popular nickname in the संयुक्त राज्य कि refers to the डलास cowboys in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film, जहाँ the narrator opens साथ the following परिचय : the पद is पहचाना और प्रायः प्रयुक्त by मीडिया आउटलेट, सहित ईएसपीएन, Yahoo !, HBO Sports, and Sports Illustrated.
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 कनाडाई टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, आधारित on the television film of the same name.
In Canada, the series premiered in फ्रेंच on télétoon on फ़रवरी 28, 2011, in अंग्रेज़ी on teletoon on कूच 14, 2011, and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27, 2011.
The show was created by Fresh TV, creators of 6teen और कुल नाटक.
The show फ़ॉलो ethan मॉर्गन ( मैथ्यू नाईट ), जो, in the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी, learns that his babysitter Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire.
In the film, he learns he is able to have visions और उसके बेहतरीन dost बेनी Weir ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures, with occasional सहायता इससे fellow vampires रोरी ( cameron कैनेडी ) और एरिका ( केट टॉड ), जबकि dealing साथ the परेशानियों of नियमित high school life.
A second ऋतु थी पुष्टि to प्रारंभ उत्पादन in सितंबर 2011 और it पहला premiered on Disney Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon started featuring season 2 sneak-peak एपीसोड on अक्तूबर 28, 2012 और premiered it on जनवरी 10, 2013
Dodge B श्रेणी यूटिलिटी circa 1950, चलित by Albert Namatjira
A pickup ट्रक or pick-up, प्रायः बस referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट मोटर गाडी साथ an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the पद पिकअप is प्रयुक्त लिये लाइट ट्रक साथ a हल्का ड्यूटी chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित, एकीकृत bed, as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों, प्रायः based on a personal car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have उनके अपना शर्तें समान to पिकअप, ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और New Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe, जहाँ वैन और लाइट lorries हैं commonly प्रयुक्त लिये समान roles.
The President of the United States of अमेरिका ( potus ) is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the संयुक्त States.
The president leads the कार्यपालिका शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी और is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the अध्यक्ष और आरोप उसे साथ the निष्पादन of संघीय विधि, alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका, राजनयिक, नियामक, और न्यायिक officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, and to convene और adjourn either or दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत असाधारण हालातों.
Since the founding of the United States, the शक्ति of the अध्यक्ष और the संघीय सरकारी have grown substantially और प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no औपचारिक विधान शक्तियां परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely जिम्मेदार लिये dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is frequently वर्णित as the सबसे शक्तिशाली व्यक्ति in the world.
the अध्यक्ष is indirectly निर्वाचित by the लोगों through the चुनावी कॉलेज to a four-year पद, और is एक of तभी दो nationally निर्वाचित संघीय अधिकारियों, the other being the Vice President of the United States.
The twenty-second amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने elected to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if कि व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष, or acting president, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
on जनवरी 20, 2009, बराक ओबामा became the 44th and current president.
On November 6, 2012, he थी re-elected और is अनुसूचित to serve until January 20, 2017.
बोतलबंद खनिज water
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g., खूब जल, आसुत जल, खनिज जल, or वसन्त जल ) packaged in प्लास्टिक or glass water bottles.
Bottled जल may be कार्बोनेटेड or not.
Sizes range इससे छोटी सिंगल सेवारत बोतलों to विशाल carboys for water coolers.
Map of the major rivers, झीलों, और टंकी in इण्डिया
Map showing नदियाँ और बाढ़ prone क्षेत्रों in इण्डिया
Rivers of India play an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in the जीवनदान of the Indian people.
the नदी प्रणालियों provide सिंचाई, potable जल, सस्ती परिवहन, विद्युत, और the livelihoods लिये a विशाल number of people all over the country and to rural areas.
This easily explains क्यों nearly सब the प्रमुख शहरों of इण्डिया are located by the banks of rivers.
The नदियाँ भी have an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in हिन्दू mythology और are considered holy by all Hindus in the country.
Seven major rivers along with their numerous tributaries मेक up the नदी प्रणाली of इण्डिया.
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however, some of the rivers whose courses take them through the western part of the देश और towards the ईस्ट of the राज्य of himachal pradesh खाली into the arabian समुद्र.
Parts of Ladakh, northern parts of the aravlli दायरा और the arid भाग of the थार मरुस्थल have inland drainage.
Dr.Francis बुकानन surveyed the पाठ्यक्रम of the नदियाँ of इण्डिया साथ साथ उनके tributaries and branches in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it.
the shifting of the पाठ्यक्रम और bed over the सदियां is very remarkable.
अनेक of the चैनल्स उल्लेखित in कि सर्वेक्षण have अभी become dead, dried or even extinct.
All प्रमुख नदियाँ of इण्डिया originate इससे one of the three main watersheds :
the हिमालय और the Karakoram ranges
विंध्य और satpura सीमाएँ और chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or पश्चिमी ghats in पश्चिमी इण्डिया
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management established the rules for commercial and वित्तीय संबंध among the संसार 's प्रमुख औद्योगिक राज्य in the mid-20th century.
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a fully negotiated मौद्रिक अनुक्रम intended to govern मौद्रिक संबंध among स्वतंत्र nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II थी स्टिल raging, 730 delegates इससे सब 44 अलाइड राष्ट्र gathered at the माउंट वॉशिंगटन होटल in bretton वुड्स, नई हैम्पशायर, United States, for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference.
The delegates deliberated दौरान 1–22 जुलाई 1944, और हस्ताक्षरित the अनुबंध on इसके final day.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, and प्रक्रियाओं to विनियमित the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक प्रणाली, the planners at bretton वुड्स स्थापित the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD ), which today is part of the World Bank Group.
These organizations became operational in 1945 बाद a sufficient क्रमांक of देशों था ratified the agreement.
The chief features of the Bretton Woods प्रणाली यहूद an दायित्व लिये प्रत्येक देश to अपनाना a मौद्रिक नीति कि कायम the एक्सचेंज रेट by tying इसके करेंसी to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the US $ to gold.
This brought the Bretton Woods प्रणाली to an समाप्त और देखी the डालर become fiat currency.
This action, referred to as the Nixon shock, निर्मित the हालात in जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य डालर became a reserve currency used by many states.
At the same time, अनेक फिक्स्ड मुद्राएँ ( ऐसे as gbp, लिये उदाहरण ), भी became free floating.
Ducati Motor पकड़कर s.p.A. is an इतालवी कम्पनी कि डिजाइन और manufactures मोटरसाइकिल.
Headquartered in Bologna, Italy, Ducati is owned by audi through इसके इतालवी subsidiary लेम्बोर्गिनी.
A credit score is a numerical अभिव्यक्ति आधारित on a सांख्यिकीय विश्लेषण of a व्यक्ति 's क्रेडिट फाइलें, to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
A credit score is primarily आधारित on क्रेडिट रपट सूचना typically sourced इससे क्रेडिट bureaus.
Lenders, such as banks and credit card कंपनियाँ, उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to evaluate the संभावित रिस्क posed by lending धन to उपभोक्ता और to mitigate losses due to bad debt.
Lenders use credit scores to determine who qualifies लिये a ऋण, at कया ब्याज रेट, और कया क्रेडिट limits.
lenders भी उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to determine जिससे ग्राहक हैं संभावित to bring in the most revenue.
The use of credit or identity scoring prior to authorizing अभिगम or granting क्रेडिट is an क्रियान्वयन of a विश्वसनीय system.
Credit scoring is नहीं सीमित to बैंको.
Other संगठन, ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन कंपनियाँ, बीमे कंपनियाँ, जमींदार, और सरकारी विभाग employ the same techniques.
Credit scoring also has a लॉट of ओवरलैप साथ आंकड़ा खनन, जिससे उपयोग अनेक similar techniques.
These techniques combine हज़ारों of कारकों लकिन वे हैं अधिक or कम समान or the वही.
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of उनके परिभाषाएं : लिये उदाहरण, to निकालें the परिभाषा of the मीटर इससे the गति of लाइट, the परिभाषा of the second must be known while the ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length, mass and time.
The International System of इकाई ( si ) defines सात इकाई of माप as a मौलिक नियत इससे जिससे सब other SI units are derived.
These si आधार इकाई और उनके शारीरिक quantities are:
मीटर लिये लंबाई ( us अंग्रेज़ी : meter )
kilogram लिये द्रव्यमान ( नोट : नहीं the gram )
दूसरी लिये time
ampere लिये इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान
kelvin लिये तापमान
candela for चमकदार तीव्रता
mole लिये the राशि of पदार्थ.
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually स्वतंत्र आयाम as जरूरी by आयामी विश्लेषण commonly employed in विज्ञान and technology.
however, in a दिए realization of ये इकाई वे may खूब be interdependent, i.e. defined in terms of each other.
The names of SI units हैं लिखा in लोअरकेस वर्ण ( the 'degree सेल्सियस ' meets इस नियम, as 'degree ' is the unit, and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ).
The symbols of units are written in lowercase ( e.g. metre has the symbol m ), मगर कि प्रतीकों लिये इकाई नामित बाद व्यक्तियों हैं लिखा साथ an आरंभिक capital letter ( e.g., the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ).
Many other units, such as the लीटर ( us अंग्रेज़ी : लीनियर ), हैं formally नहीं भाग of the si, लकिन are accepted for use with SI.
स्मारक canyon
Colorado नेशनल स्मारक ( locally referred to as the स्मारक ) is a भाग of the National Park Service near the city of Grand Junction, Colorado.
Spectacular canyons काटें गहन into sandstone और भी granite–gneiss–schist rock formations, in some areas.
This is an क्षेत्रफल of मरुस्थल जमीन ऊँची on the कोलोराडो पठार, साथ पिनियन and juniper forests on the plateau.
The park hosts a wide range of वन्यजीव, सहित red-tailed चीलों और सुनहरी ईगल्स, ravens, jays, मरुस्थल bighorn शीप, और coyotes.
Activities include hiking, horseback riding, road bicycling, and दर्शनीय ड्राइव ; a आगंतुक बीच on the वेस्ट पक्ष contains a प्राकृतिक इतिहास संग्रहालय और gift shop.
There are magnificent views from trails और the रिम चट्टान ड्राइव, जिससे हवाएँ साथ the plateau.
आसपास हैं the किताब cliffs, और the largest flat-topped mountain in the world, the Grand Mesa.
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon, which runs the width of the park, and शामिल चट्टान formations ऐसे as स्वतंत्रता स्मारक, the चुंबन युगल, और कोक Ovens.
The monument शामिल 20,500 एकड़ ( 32 वर्गाकार मील ), much of जिससे रै महरूम recommended to Congress for designation as wilderness.
left to right : Utility Uniform, Blue Dress वर्दी, सेवा वर्दी, और संध्या पोशाक uniforms
The वर्दी of the संयुक्त राज्य समुद्री corps serve to फर्क marines इससे सदस्यों of other services.
Among current वर्दी in the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां, the marines ' वर्दी have been in service the longest.
The Marine Dress Blue uniform रै, साथ few परिवर्तन, महरूम worn in essentially इसके वर्तमान form since the 19th century.
North American telephone क्षेत्रफल कोड 419 और 567 serve the उत्तरपश्चिम quadrant of the u.S. state of Ohio.
The largest नगर परोसा by ये क्षेत्रफल कोड is टोलेडो ( और इसके उपनगरों of Holland, Maumee, Northwood, Oregon, Ottawa Hills, Perrysburg, Rossford, Sylvania, Swanton, Waterville, and Whitehouse ).
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada, Ashland, Bellevue, Bluffton, Bowling Green, Bryan, Bucyrus, Celina, क्लाइड, crestline, defiance, delphos, एडिसन, erastus, findlay, fostoria, fremont, galion, kenton, लीमा, मैन्सफील्ड, माउंट gilead, नेपोलियन, नॉरवॉक, ओक हार्बर, बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन, Sandusky, Shelby, St. Marys, Tiffin, Upper Sandusky, Van Wert, Wapakoneta, Wauseon, Willard.
Other areas served include the Lake erie आइलैंड्स उत्तर of बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन और वेस्ट of Sandusky.
The main area code, 419, was created as one of the original area codes in अक्तूबर 1947 ; the ओवरले क्षेत्रफल कोड 567 थी निर्मित on January 1, 2002.
Despite the presence of Toledo, the state 's fourth-largest नगर, 419 थी the पिछला of ओहियो 's असली चार क्षेत्रफल कोड to have महरूम विभाजित or overlaid.
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born March 9, 1936 ) is an अमरीकी देश म्यूज़िक सिंगर और संगीतकार.
Although he started out singing straight-up country and western material in the 1970s, he स्थानांतरित towards a अधिक पॉप -friendly ध्वनि in the 1980s, bringing उसे further कामयाबी on नहीं बस the देश charts, but the pop charts as well.
Among his biggest hits are `` रूम पूरा of गुलाब, '' `` do n't the लड़कियों सब मिलेंगी prettier at closing समय, '' और the रीमेक of the आत्मा hit `` Stand by Me ``.
He is भी the cousin of जेरी ली लुईस, कार्ल mcvoy, Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart.
According to the Federal Aviation Administration, Gilley is a licensed पायलट, जो holds an यंत्र दरजा साथ वाणिज्यिक पायलट privileges लिये multi-engine airplanes, as खूब as निजी पायलट privileges for single engine aircraft.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a श्रेणी of चार समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य in नई यॉर्क नगर और the वॉशिंगटन, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners यहूद hijacked by 19 al-qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could be flown into इमारतें in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, अमरीकी एयरलाइंस उड़ान 11 और संयुक्त एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175, यहूद क्रैश into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें, क्रमशः, of the संसार व्यापार Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल, as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन अन्य विशाल surrounding structures.
A third plane, American एयरलाइंस उड़ान 77, थी क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त राज्य Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, बाद इसके यात्री tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 लोगों died in the हमले, सहित the 227 नागरिकों और 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
suspicion जल्दी गिरी on al-qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin लादेन, initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the presence of u.S. सैनिकों in सऊदी अरब, और प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध इराकी as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the युद्ध on आतंक और आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान, जिससे था harbored al-Qaeda.
Many देशों strengthened उनके anti-terrorism विधान और expanded law enforcement powers.
Having evaded कैप्चर लिये सालो, बिन लादेन थी स्तिथ and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the जुड़वा मीनारें और अन्य गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर मैनहटन and had a significant effect on global markets.
Cleanup of the संसार व्यापार बीच साईट थी समाप्त in may 2002, और the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the National सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क, the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल, और the उड़ान 93 नेशनल Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the One World व्यापार बीच is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त at मैदान शून्य in New York City in 2013.
Finding Nemo is a 2003 अमरीकी computer-animated comedy-drama एडवेंचर फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by एंड्रयू stanton, released by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी तस्वीरें, और the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios.
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who, साथ साथ a राजसी तंग नामित dory ( एलेन degeneres ), खोज लिये उसके abducted बेटे nemo ( सिकंदर gould ) सब the रास्ता to सिडनी harbour.
Along the way, Marlin learns to लो risks और let nemo लो परवाह of खुद.
It is Pixar 's first film to be released in cinemas in the उत्तरी hemisphere summer.
The film was re-released for the first time in 3D on September 14, 2012, और it थी released on blu-ray on दिसम्बर 4, 2012.
A sequel, ढूंढना dory, is फिलहाल in विकास, नियत to be released on November 25, 2015.
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best Animated विशेषता, और थी मनोनीत in तीन अधिक श्रेणी including Best Original Screenplay.
It was the second highest-grossing film of 2003, कमाई a कुल of $ 921 लाख विश्वव्यापी.
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling dvd of सब समय, साथ over 40 लाख नक़ल बेची as of 2006, और थी the highest-grossing g-rated फिल्मी of सब समय पहले पिक्चर्स 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it.
It is also the 23rd highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब समय, as खूब as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film.
In 2008, the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान नामित it the दसवाँ महानतम animated film ever made during their Top 10.
The sixth season of अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू, भी ज्ञात as अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू : ऋतु of the सुपरस्टार, premiered on April 7, 2011 and concluded on June 5, 2011.
Auditions were held in four cities from जनवरी 21 through फ़रवरी 5 : शिकागो, ह्यूस्टन, नई यॉर्क, और लॉस Angeles.
This season takes a अलग रूट इससे पास्ट सीज़न.
The क्रू जरूर perform to the म्यूज़िक of एक विशिष्ट कलाकार प्रत्येक week, including Rihanna, Lil Wayne, and other popular stars.
This ऋतु भी सुविधाएँ खास अतिथि दिखावे by विभिन्न म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ सहित Justin Bieber, The Black Eyed Peas, Katy Perry, Kesha, Nicki Minaj, and Kanye West.
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a पूर्व सदस्य of क्वेस्ट क्रू, the विजेता of the तीसरा ऋतु of अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू, joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge.
In the season finale, I aM mE was declared the विजेता of ऋतु 6 और प्राप्त the $ 100,000 ( usd ) prize.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, सोशल सुरक्षा refers to the old-age, survivors, और विकलांगता Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program.
The original Social Security Act ( 1935 ) and the वर्तमान संस्करण of the अधिनियम, as amended, encompass अनेक सोशल welfare और सोशल insurance programs.
Social सुरक्षा is primarily वित्तपोषित through समर्पित payroll कर पुकारा संघीय Insurance Contributions Act tax ( FICA ).
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal विकलांगता बीमे विश्वास निधि, the संघीय हॉस्पिटल बीमे विश्वास निधि, or the संघीय अनुपूरक चिकित्सा बीमे विश्वास Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund.
upward redistribution of आय is जिम्मेदार लिये परिचय 43 % of the projected Social Security shortfall over the next 75 years.
According to economist Martin feldstein, the संयुक्त बिता लिये सब सोशल बीमे कार्यक्रम in 2003 constituted 37 % of government expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product.
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40 प्रतिशत of सब अमेरिकी आयु 65 or पुरानी आउट of गरीबी.
The Social सुरक्षा प्रशासन is headquartered in woodlawn, मेरीलैंड, just west of Baltimore.
The alcohol by volume दिखाया on a बोतल of absinthe.
Alcohol by आवाज़ ( abbreviated as abv, abv, or alc/vol ) is a मानक माप of कैसा much दारू ( इथेनॉल ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ).
the abv मानक is प्रयुक्त worldwide.
In some देशों, दारू by आवाज़ is referred to as डिग्री gay-lussac ( बाद the फ्रेंच chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ).
Laurel खोखला is a गाँव in the कस्बा of सीप खाड़ी in nassau काउंटी, New York in the United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 1,952 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
चार्ल्स जॉन huffam डिकेंस ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 1812 – 9 जून 1870 ) was an English writer and social critic.
He created some of the world 's most यादगार fictional वर्ण और is generally regarded as the महानतम उपन्यासकार of the विक्टोरियन period.
During his life, his works enjoyed unprecedented fame, and by the बीसवीं सदी उसके साहित्यिक प्रतिभाशाली थी broadly acknowledged by आलोचकों and scholars.
उसके novels और छोटी कहानियां continue to be widely popular.
Born in Portsmouth, इंग्लैण्ड, डिकेंस बाएँ स्कूल to कार्य in a फैक्टरी बाद his father was thrown into debtors ' prison.
Although he had little formal शिक्षा, उसके जल्दी impoverishment drove उसे to सफल.
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 सालो, लिखा 15 novels, 5 novellas और सैंकड़ों of छोटी कहानियां और non-fiction आलेख, lectured और performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights, education, and other social reforms.
Dickens sprang to कीर्ति साथ the 1836 सीरियल प्रकाशन of the pickwick Papers.
Within a few सालो he था become an अंतरराष्ट्रीय साहित्यिक हस्ती, प्रसिद्ध लिये his humour, satire, and keen observation of character and society.
His novels, most published in monthly or weekly किश्तों, pioneered the सीरियल प्रकाशन of कथा fiction, जिससे became the प्रबल विक्टोरियन mode for novel publication.
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate उसके दर्शक 's प्रतिक्रिया, और he प्रायः परिवर्धित उसके प्लाट और अक्षर विकास based on such feedback.
For example, when his बीवी 's chiropodist expressed तकलीफ at the रास्ता मिस mowcher in दाउद कॉपरफील्ड लगा to reflect her disabilities, Dickens went on to improve the character with positive lineaments.
Fagin in Oliver Twist जाहिर mirrors the प्रसिद्ध बाड़ ikey सुलेमान ; उसके कैरीकेचर of leigh हंट in the फिगर of mr skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends, as they read episodes.
In the same novel, both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the beadle हैं drawn इससे रियल जीवन – boythorne इससे वाल्टर जंगली landor और मूनी इससे 'looney ', a beadle at Salisbury Square.
His plots यहूद carefully constructed, और डिकेंस प्रायः wove in तत्व इससे topical कार्यक्रम into his narratives.
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have प्रत्येक नई मासिक एपीसोड पढ़ा to उन्हें, खोलने up और प्रेरणादायी a new class of readers.
Dickens was regarded as the साहित्यिक colossus of उसके आयु.
His 1843 novella, A क्रिसमस कैरोल, is एक of the सबसे influential works कभी लिखा, और it remains लोकप्रिय और continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre.
उसके रचनात्मक प्रतिभाशाली रै महरूम praised by fellow writers—from leo टालस्टाय to G. K. चेस्टरटन और जार्ज ऑरवेल —for its realism, comedy, prose style, unique characterisations, and social criticism.
On the other hand Oscar Wilde, हेनरी जेम्स और वर्जिनिया woolf complained of a कमी of मनोवैज्ञानिक गहराई, ढीला writing, and a vein of saccharine sentimentalism.
मार्टिन लूथर किंग और अन्य सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ in सामने of the statue of Abraham Lincoln, August 28, 1963
The civil अधिकारों गति थी a श्रेणी of विश्वव्यापी राजनैतिक आंदोलनों लिये समता पहले the law that peaked in the 1960s.
In many situations it took the form of अभियान of सिविल प्रतिरोध aimed at achieving बदलें by nonviolent forms of resistance.
In some परिस्थितियों it थी accompanied, or followed, by सिविल अशांति and armed rebellion.
The process was long and tenuous in many countries, and many of these आंदोलनों किया नहीं fully achieve उनके लक्ष्य हालांकि, the प्रयत्न of ये आंदोलनों किया सीसे to सुधार in the विधिक अधिकारों of previously दलित groups of people.
The main aim of the civil rights movement included, and include, ensuring that the अधिकारों of सब लोगों हैं बराबर सुरक्षित by the विधि, सहित the अधिकारों of अल्पसंख्यकों.
Civil rights movements ranging इससे the वैश्विक lgbt अधिकारों गति to the वैश्विक महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति to various racial minority rights movements around the world continue.
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup, the संसार चैंपियनशिप लिये मेन 's नेशनल संघ फ़ुटबॉल टीमों.
It took प्लेस in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे 11 June to 11 July 2010.
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open only to African nations ; in 2004, the international football संघ, फीफा, चयनित दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी over मिश्र और मोरक्को to become the पहला अफ़्रीकी nation to host the finals.
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the country, with the फाइनल निभाई at the सॉकर नगर स्टेडियम in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's largest नगर, Johannesburg.
Thirty-two teams were selected for participation via a विश्वव्यापी योग्यता टूर्नामेंट कि began in अगस्त 2007.
In the first round of the tournament फाइनल, the टीमों competed in round-robin समूह of चार टीमों लिये अंक, with the top two teams in each group proceeding.
These sixteen teams advanced to the knockout stage, जहाँ तीन rounds of खेल decided जिससे टीमों होता participate in the final.
In the final, Spain, the European champions, पराजित third-time finalists the नीदरलैंड्स 1–0 बाद अतिरिक्त समय, साथ आन्द्रेस iniesta 's लक्ष्य in the 116th मिनट giving स्पेन उनके पहला संसार शीर्षक, बनने the आठवीं nation to win the tournament, and the first European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent.
Host nation South अफ़्रीकी, 2006 संसार champions इटली और 2006 runners-up फ़्रांस यहूद सब eliminated in the first round of the tournament.
It was the पहला समय कि the होस्ट यहूद eliminated in the पहला round.
New Zealand with their तीन draws यहूद the तभी अपराजित टोली in the टूर्नामेंट, but were also eliminated in the first round.
The McMuffin is a family of नाश्ता सैंडविच in विभिन्न आकार और configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's.
The Egg mcmuffin is the हस्ताक्षर नाश्ता सैंडविच ; it थी invented by the लेट मैकडोनाल्ड 's वाल हर्ब पीटरसन in the लेट 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972.
John Lennon थी an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार जो gained विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as एक of the संस्थापकों of the बीटल्स, लिये उसके subsequent सोलो करियर, and for his political activism and pacifism.
He थी शॉट by चिह्नित दाउद chapman at the प्रवेश of the building where he lived, The Dakota, in New York City on 8 December 1980.
Lennon had just लौटे इससे रिकार्ड संयंत्र स्टुडियो साथ उसके बीवी, योको Ono.
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, जहाँ it थी stated कि nobody could have जिया लिये अधिक than a few मिनट्स बाद sustaining ऐसे चोटों.
shortly बाद लोकल न्यूज स्टेशन reported लेनन 's मौत, crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in front of the Dakota.
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the Ferncliff Cemetery in hartsdale, नई यॉर्क ; the राख यहूद दिए to ओनो, जो chose नहीं to थाम a अंत्येष्टि for him.
The first report of Lennon 's मौत to a u.S. नेशनल दर्शक थी घोषित by हावर्ड Cosell, on ABC 's Monday Night Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख संयुक्त राज्य बंदरगाहों और the largest नगर और महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the state of Louisiana.
The जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
the नई ऑरलियन्स महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( नई orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The New orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, a larger व्यापार क्षेत्रफल, था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,214,932.
The city is named बाद orléans, a नगर स्तिथ on the loire नदी in केन्द्र, फ़्रांस, और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके पृथक फ्रेंच Creole architecture, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New Orleans is also famous for इसके भोजन, म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), और इसके सालाना जश्न and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is often referred to as the `` सबसे अद्वितीय '' in America.
New Orleans is स्तिथ in southeastern louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The नगर और ऑरलियन्स मोहल्ला ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. tammany to the उत्तर, st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट, plaquemines to the दक्षिण and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of which is included in the city हद, झूठ to the उत्तर और झील borgne झूठ to the ईस्ट.
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, पूर्व vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जीती the चुनाव over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee, लाज़िम Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a अभियान कि promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's शहरों, फटा by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि था वर्चस्व presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after डेमोक्रेट lyndon B. जॉनसन जीती in a ऐतिहासिक भूस्खलन, the चुनाव देखी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the रेस और a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that शामिल the हत्या of सिविल अधिकारों नेता मार्टिन लूथर किंग, jr., और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the स्वदेश, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. कैनेडी, फैली विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध आरपार university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा राज्यपाल जार्ज Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed संघीय हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to समाप्त स्कूल पृथक्करण, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last election in which नई यॉर्क था the सबसे मत in the चुनावी कॉलेज ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे चुनावी मत और रै remained the सबसे populous राज्य since then.
This is the latest election where a अध्यक्षीय टिकट जीती बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's घर state.
Karak ( ; भी ज्ञात as garak, garrak, और gorg ) is a गाँव in gamasiyab ग्रामीण ज़िला, in the सेंट्रल ज़िला of Nahavand County, Hamadan Province, Iran.
At the 2006 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी 294, in 65 families.
Kurt 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – अप्रैल 5, 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल म्यूज़िक झाँकी, having इसके डेब्यू एल्बम ब्लीच released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major लेबल dgc रिकॉर्ड, the बैंड मिला भेदन कामयाबी साथ `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of nevermind, निर्वाण थी labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his message और कलाकारी दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the पब्लिक, साथ उसके निजी मुद्दे प्रायः विषय to मीडिया ध्यान.
He challenged Nirvana 's दर्शक साथ इसके फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम in Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन, बीमारी and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image, और the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding खुद और उसके बीवी, संगीतकार कोर्टनी Love.
On April 8, 1994, कोबेन थी मिला मुर्दे at उसके घर in सिएटल, the शिकार of कया थी officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The circumstances of his मौत at आयु 27 have become a टॉपिक of पब्लिक fascination और बहस.
Since उनके डेब्यू, निर्वाण, साथ कोबेन as a songwriter, रै बेची over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman सगाई साथ the निर्माण और मेंटेनेंस of machinery.
More generally in the English speaking world, early millwrights यहूद विशेषज्ञ बढ़ई जो erected मशीने प्रयुक्त in कृषि, खाना प्रसंस्करण और processing lumber and paper.
In the early part of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति, उनके कौशल यहूद दबाया into सेवा भवन the earliest powered textile mills.
Modern millwrights work with steel और अन्य सामग्री in जोड to लकडी और जरूर प्रायः combine the कौशल of अनेक skilled ट्रेड in अनुक्रम to सफलतापूर्वक fabricate औद्योगिक मशीनरी or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts.
the आधुनिक millwright जरूर भी be समर्थ to पढ़ा blueprints और अन्य schematics to aid him in the construction of complex systems.
Millwrights are frequently unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the us, हालांकि अनुभवी millwrights प्रायः नियत themselves up as independent contractors.
The समायोजन ब्यूरो is a 2011 अमरीकी रोमांटिक कार्रवाई थ्रिलर फिल्मी loosely आधारित on the फिलिप K. Dick short story, `` Adjustment Team ``.
The film was written and directed by जार्ज nolfi और सितारों मैट डैमन और Emily Blunt.
The cast also includes Anthony Mackie, John slattery, माइकल केली, और टेरेंस स्टैम्प.
The score was composed by Thomas Newman, with two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` भविष्य 's उज्जवल '' लिये the खोलने अनुक्रम ; `` हैं तुम तैयार ? '' लिये the closing credits ).
Sodium azide is the अकार्बनिक यौगिक साथ the formula NaN3.
This colorless नमक is the gas-forming घटक in अनेक car airbag systems.
it is प्रयुक्त लिये the तैयारी of अन्य azide compounds.
It is an ionic substance, is अत्यधिक घुलनशील in जल, और is बहुत acutely विषाक्त.
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows on the अंदर of the प्राथमिक arc.
The shadow of the photographer 's head on the नीचे marks the केन्द्र of the रेनबो वृत्त ( antisolar point ).
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by प्रतिबिंब of लाइट in जल droplets in the धरती 's माहौल, resulting in a वर्णक्रम of लाइट appearing in the आसमान.
It takes the रूप of a multicoloured arc.
Rainbows caused by धूप सदा appear in the खण्ड of आसमान directly opposite the sun.
In a `` primary rainbow '', the arc shows रेड on the बाहरी भाग और बैंगनी on the inner side.
This rainbow is caused by लाइट होने refracted जबकि प्रवेश a droplet of जल, तब reflected अंदर on the वापस of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the primary arc, और रै the अनुक्रम of इसके रंग reversed, रेड facing toward the अन्य एक, in दोनो rainbows.
This second rainbow is caused by लाइट reflecting twice अंदर water droplets.
The Conservative Party, officially the रूढ़िवादी और यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी और colloquially referred to as the tory पार्टी or the tories, is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and British unionism.
it is the largest political पार्टी in the संयुक्त किंगडम, होने the largest सिंगल पार्टी in the हाउस of कॉमन्स साथ 303 mps, the largest पार्टी in लोकल सरकारी साथ 9,391 पार्षदों, और the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs.
It governs in गठबन्धन साथ the उदार डेमोक्रेट, साथ पार्टी नेता दाउद Cameron as Prime Minister.
The Conservative Party was founded in 1834, and was one of दो प्रबल पार्टियों in the 19th सदी, साथ साथ the Liberal Party.
It changed its name to the रूढ़िवादी और यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी in 1912 बाद विलय साथ the उदार यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी, हालांकि कि नाम is rarely प्रयुक्त और it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party.
In the 1920s, the उदार vote greatly diminished और the श्रमिक पार्टी became the conservatives ' main rivals.
रूढ़िवादी प्रधान मंत्रियों led सरकारें लिये 57 सालो of the 20th century, including Winston Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging आर्थिक उदारीकरण और देखी the conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the three major parties.
The पार्टी थी लौटे to सरकारी in गठबन्धन, having विफल to जीत a बहुमत, in 2010 under the more `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron.
In the European Parliament, the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs, who sit with the soft eurosceptic यूरोपीय conservatives और reformists ( ecr ) संसदीय समूह, जबकि the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of the गठबंधन of यूरोपीय conservatives और Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest पार्टी in the स्कॉटिश पार्लियामेंट और second-largest in the Welsh Assembly.
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist Party ( UUP ) as भाग of the ulster conservatives और unionists व्यवस्था, साथ the uup फिलहाल participating in the five-party उत्तरी आयरलैंड Executive.
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose final, और शायद सबसे recognizable, line-up comprised बेयोंस नॉलेस, केली rowland और मिशेल विलियम्स.
Formed in 1990 in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास, नियति 's चाइल्ड सदस्यों began उनके musical endeavors as लड़की 's टीमे comprising, among others, Knowles, Rowland, LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett.
After years of limited कामयाबी, वे यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड as नियति 's Child.
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition following the release of उनके best-selling दूसरी एल्बम, the लिखने 's on the वॉल, जिससे contained the number-one singles `` Bills, Bills, Bills `` and `` Say My Name ``.
Despite critical and वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, the समूह थी plagued by आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil, as roberson और luckett attempted to विभाजित इससे the समूह 's मैनेजर mathew नॉलेस, citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland, his daughter and niece, respectively.
Both Roberson and Luckett were जल्द replaced साथ विलियम्स और farrah फ्रैंकलिन ; however, in 2000, फ्रैंकलिन थी बर्खास्त, leaving them as a trio.
Their third album, Survivor, which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to the समूह 's अनुभव, contains the विश्वव्यापी हिट्स `` स्वतंत्र महिलाओं ``, `` उत्तरजीवी `` और `` bootylicious ``.
In 2002, they announced a अंतराल और re-united दो सालो बाद लिये the रिलीज of उनके चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम, Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ).
Destiny 's Child has sold more than 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी to तिथि.
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the महानतम musical trios of सब समय, the नवीं सबसे कामयाब artist/band of the 2000s, और लगाई the समूह 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008.
The Centers for Disease कंट्रोल और रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय एजेंसी अंतर्गत the विभाग of स्वास्थ्य और इंसान सेवाएं headquartered in druid पहाड़ियाँ, unincorporated dekalb County, Georgia, in Greater Atlanta.
It works to protect public health and safety by providing information to enhance health निर्णय, और it promotes स्वास्थ्य through partnerships साथ राज्य स्वास्थ्य विभाग और other organizations.
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens and other microbial infections ), पर्यावरणीय स्वास्थ्य, occupational सुरक्षा और स्वास्थ्य, स्वास्थ्य प्रमोशन, injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.
The CDC is the United States ' national पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य संस्थान और is a founding सदस्य of the International Association of National Public Health Institutes.
भूकंप भविष्यवाणी `` is प्रायः पारिभाषित as the specification of the समय, स्थान, और परिमाण of a भविष्य भूकंप भीतर stated हद '', और विशेषकर of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region. ''
This can be distinguished from earthquake forecasting, जिससे is the probabilistic मूल्यांकन of सामान्य भूकंप जोखिम, सहित the आवृत्ति और परिमाण of damaging भूकंप, in a given area over periods of years or decades.
This can be further distinguished from real-time भूकंप चेतावनी प्रणालियों, जिससे, upon डिटेक्शन of a कठोर भूकंप, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking.
To be useful, an earthquake prediction must be precise पर्याप्त to वारंट the लागत of increased एहतियात, सहित disruption of ordinary activities and commerce, and timely enough that preparation can be made.
Predictions must also be reliable, as false alarms and cancelled सचेतक हैं नहीं तभी economically costly, लकिन seriously undermine विश्वास in, और thereby the प्रभावकारिता of, any kind of warning.
With over 7,000 भूकंप around the संसार प्रत्येक साल साथ a परिमाण of 4.0 or वृहद, नगण्य कामयाबी in भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is easily प्राप्त using sufficiently broad parameters of time, location, or magnitude.
However, such trivial `` कामयाब पूर्वानुमान '' are not useful.
Major भूकंप हैं प्रायः followed by रिपोर्ट्स कि वे यहूद पूर्वानुमानित, or at तनिक anticipated, लकिन no अर्जी of a कामयाब prediction of a major earthquake has survived close inquiry.
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst वैज्ञानिकों कि कुछ विधि of predicting भूकंप might be मिला, लकिन by the 1990s continuing विफलता led many scientists to question whether it was even possible.
While many scientists still hold that, दिए पर्याप्त संसाधन, भविष्यवाणी might be संभावित, अनेक अन्य maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible.
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13, 1993 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, सिंगर, संगीतकार, songwriter और रिकार्ड निर्माता.
Ryan is best known for अभिनीत as बेली पिकेट in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली Series The Suite Life on Deck.
In 2008, The सुइट जीवन on डेक क्रमित as tv 's शीर्ष श्रेणी among बच्चे 6-11 और the No. 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14.
Ryan started एक्टिंग in पेशेवर थिएटर at the आयु of सात ; in 2007 वो appeared in the बार्नी & मित्रों straight-to-dvd फिल्मी बार्नी : let 's go to the फायरहाउस and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney.
She is भी ज्ञात लिये appearing in the 2008 विशेषता फिल्मी the longshots as Edith.
in 2009, वो अतिथि स्ट्रक्चर in an एपीसोड of wizards of waverly प्लेस in wizards on डेक साथ हन्ना मोंटाना as बेली Pickett along with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck.
Then, in 2010, she starred in the फिल्मी 16 बधाइयां, जिससे थी the सबसे देखी केबल कार्यक्रम on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel.
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the movie प्राप्त ऊँची viewership in the वयस्कों जनसांख्यिकी ( 18-34 ).
Soon after that, Ryan स्ट्रक्चर in the स्वतंत्र नाट्य फिल्मी, कया If..., which premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan also starred in the नई डिज़्नी चैनल असली फिल्म, रेडियो विद्रोही, जहाँ वो portrays the भूमिका of tara एडम्स, a शर्मीले 17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality, Radio Rebel.
released फ़रवरी 17, 2012.
Ryan stars in the titular role in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी, जेसी.
Stührling tourbillon गति ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an जोड to the यांत्रिकी of a देखें escapement.
विकसित around 1795 by the french-swiss घड़ीसाज़ abraham-louis breguet इससे an पहले विचार by the अंग्रेज़ी chronometer मेकर जॉन अर्नाल्ड, a tourbillon aims to काउंटर the effects of gravity by mounting the escapement and balance wheel in a rotating cage, to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve सटीकता, tourbillons हैं स्टिल शामिल in कुछ महंगी आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a novelty and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
The mechanism is usually उजागर on the देखें 's फेस to दिखाएँ it off.
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft installer ) is a तन्त्र घटक प्रयुक्त लिये the संस्थापना, मेंटेनेंस, and removal of software on modern Microsoft Windows systems.
The installation information, and often the files themselves, are packaged in installation packages, loosely relational databases संरचित as com संरचित storages और commonly ज्ञात as `` msi फाइलें '', इससे उनके default file extension.
खिड़कियाँ installer contains significant परिवर्तन इससे इसके पूर्ववर्ती, Setup API.
New features include a GUI framework और स्वचालित पीढी of the uninstallation अनुक्रम.
Windows Installer is positioned as an वैकल्पिक to stand-alone executable installer frameworks ऐसे as पुरानी संस्करण of installshield और nsis.
Microsoft encourages third parties to use खिड़कियाँ installer as the आधार लिये संस्थापना frameworks, so कि वे synchronize correctly साथ अन्य installers और रखना the आतंरिक डेटाबेस of संस्थापित products consistent.
Important सुविधाएँ ऐसे as rollback और versioning निर्भर on a सतत आतंरिक database for reliable operation.
furthermore, खिड़कियाँ installer facilitates the principle of तनिक विशेषाधिकार by performing तन्त्र installations by proxy for unprivileged users.
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages, originally marketed as उर्जा पेय, बेची by phusion प्रोजेक्ट of शिकागो, Illinois.
Phusion operates as पेय चार brewing कम्पनी.
Four Loko, the company 's most लोकप्रिय पेय, debuted in the United States market in 2005.
It is now sold in 48 राज्य, और in कनाडा, the बहामा, Bolivia, Honduras, and Europe.
The name `` चार '' is निकला इससे the असली उर्जा पेय 's चार प्रमुख ingredients : alcohol, caffeine, taurine, and guarana.
Four branded products have been the object of legal, ethical, and health चिंताएं सम्बन्धित to the कम्पनी allegedly विपणन उन्हें to the underaged और the purported खतरे of combining दारू and caffeine.
After the beverage was banned in several states, a उत्पाद reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed कैफीन, taurine, और guarana as संघटक, और the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.
The गर्दन of a गिटार प्रर्दशित the नट ( in the पृष्ठभूमि, coloured white ) and first four metal frets.
A fret is a raised तत्व on the गर्दन of a stringed यंत्र.
Frets usually extend आरपार the पूरा चौडाई of the गर्दन.
On सबसे आधुनिक पश्चिमी fretted यंत्र, frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
On some historical instruments and non-European यंत्र, frets हैं बना of टुकड़े of स्ट्रिंग tied around the neck.
Frets divide the neck into fixed खण्ड at intervals सम्बन्धित to a musical फ्रेमवर्क.
On instruments such as guitars, each fret represents एक semitone in the मानक पश्चिमी प्रणाली जहाँ एक अष्टक is विभाजित into twelve semitones.
Fret is often प्रयुक्त as a क्रिया, अर्थ बस `` to दबायें bas the स्ट्रिंग behind a fret. ''
Fretting प्रायः refers to the frets and/or their system of placement.
There was खपत of दारू दोनो दौरान and after prohibition.
the 18th amendment निषिद्ध the उत्पादन, वितरण और बिक्री of alcoholic पेय in the संयुक्त राज्य and was widely supported by the American public when it went into effect in 1920.
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that दारू थी the प्रमुख कारण of सबसे निजी और सोशल समस्याएं और निषेध थी देखी as the समाधान to the nation 's poverty, crime, violence, and other ills.
Upon अनुसमर्थन of the amendment, the प्रसिद्ध इंजीलवादी Billy Sunday said that `` The slums will soon be only a memory.
We will turn हमारी जेलों into कारखानों और हमारी jails into storehouses और corncribs. ''
( Compare christianity और दारू. )
Since alcohol was to be banned and since it was देखी as the कारण of सबसे, if नहीं सब, अपराधों, कुछ समुदायों बेची उनके jails.
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States कॉंग्रेस confidently asserted कि `` वहीँ is as much मौका of repealing the eighteenth amendment as वहीँ is लिये a हमिंगबर्ड to मक्खी to the ग्रह मंगल साथ the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ), ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI dimension symbol : L ), is the आधारभूत ईकाई of लंबाई in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई ( SI ).
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator to the उत्तर ध्रुव ( at समुद्र स्तर ), इसके परिभाषा रै महरूम periodically परिष्कृत to reflect growing knowledge of metrology.
Since 1983, it has been defined as `` the length of the path travelled by लाइट in वैक्यूम दौरान a समय अंतराल of 1/299,792,458 of a second. ''
geologists exploring jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol, Negev Desert, Israel
Geologists explaining the importance of volcanic राख परतों to विद्यार्थी on फ़ील्ड in आइसलैंड
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid पदार्थ कि constitutes the धरती as खूब as the प्रक्रियाओं और इतिहास कि रै तराशा it.
geologists प्रायः engage in अध्ययन geology.
Geologists, studying more of an लागू विज्ञान than a सैद्धांतिक एक, जरूर दृष्टिकोण भूविज्ञान using भौतिकी, रसायन और जीवविज्ञान as well as other sciences.
Geologists, compared to वैज्ञानिकों सगाई in अन्य फ़ील्ड, हैं generally अधिक उजागर to the बाहरी than रहकर in laboratories ; हालांकि some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab.
Geologists are engaged in खोजी लिये खनन कंपनियाँ in ढूंढें of धातुओं, oils, और अन्य धरती संसाधन.
They हैं भी in the forefront of प्राकृतिक जोखिमों और आपदाओं चेतावनी और शमन, अध्ययन भूकंप, volcanic activity, tsunamis, weather storms, and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events.
फिलहाल, geologists हैं भी सगाई in the चर्चा of जलवायु change, as they study the history and evidence for this Earth process.
Below is a comprehensive ड्रिल और tap आकार चार्ट लिये सब drills, इम्पीरियल और मीट्रिक, और taps up to 36.5 mm.
Modern वैक्यूम tubes, ज़्यादातर miniature style
In electronics, a वैक्यूम ट्यूब, इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्यूब ( in उत्तर अमेरिका ), तापायनिक वाल्व, ट्यूब, or वाल्व is a यंत्र controlling इलेक्ट्रिक current through a vacuum in a sealed container.
The संग्राहक is प्रायः पतला पारदर्शी कांच in a roughly cylindrical shape.
The simplest वैक्यूम ट्यूब, the डायोड, is essentially an incandescent लाइट bulb with an added electrode inside.
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons हैं `` boiled '' बंद इसके सतह और into the वैक्यूम अंदर the bulb.
If the एलेक्ट्रोड -- पुकारा a `` थाली '' or `` धनाग्र '' -- is बना अधिक धनात्मक than the hot फिलामेंट, a सीधा वर्तमान बहती through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ).
As the current only flows in one direction, it makes it संभावित to बदलें an प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान लागू to the फिलामेंट to direct current.
The introduction of a third electrode, a grid between the फिलामेंट और the थाली, yields another फलन.
A voltage लागू to the ग्रिड नियंत्रण the वर्तमान बहती इससे the filament to the plate.
Thus, it allows the यंत्र to be प्रयुक्त as an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रवर्धक.
Vacuum tubes हैं यूँ प्रयुक्त लिये rectification, प्रवर्धन, switching, or समान प्रसंस्करण or creation of electrical signals.
The विशाल बहुमत of आधुनिक दिन tubes consist of a sealed संग्राहक साथ a वैक्यूम अंदर, and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament.
Some exceptions to this are dealt with in the खण्ड परिचय gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology, which drove the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण of रेडियो प्रसारण, टेलीविज़न, रडार, ध्वनि reinforcement, ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग और जनन, विशाल टेलीफोन संजाल, analog and digital computers, and industrial process control.
Although some applications had counterparts using पहले technologies ऐसे as the चिंगारी गैप ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical कंप्यूटर, it थी the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( called a triode ) and its capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical.
In most applications, solid-state डिवाइस ऐसे as transistors और अन्य सेमीकंडक्टर डिवाइस have replaced tubes.
Solid-state devices पिछला longer और हैं छोटी, अधिक कुशल, अधिक विश्वसनीय, and cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant unwanted heat, and can take many seconds—many मिनट्स in नाजुक applications—after powering on to गरम to a तापमान where they perform within operational tolerance.
However, tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not been developed, are impractical, or जहाँ a ट्यूब रै श्रेष्ठ प्रदर्शन, as साथ कुछ डिवाइस in पेशेवर ऑडियो और high-power रेडियो ट्रांसमीटरों.
tubes हैं स्टिल उत्पादित लिये such applications.
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक पल्स उत्पादित by नाभिकीय विस्फोट और geomagnetic तूफ़ान उत्पादित by दानव सौर flares.
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured मिठाई, फिलहाल उत्पादित और marketed by the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, a division of Mars, Inc.
They have hard शुगर शेल जिससे carry the अक्षर s.
The inside is mainly sugar, corn syrup, and hydrogenated ताड़ कर्नेल आयल साथ साथ फल रस, साइट्रिक एसिड, और प्राकृतिक और artificial flavours.
The confectionery रै महरूम बेची in a किस्में of फ्लेवर संग्रहण, such as Tropical and Wild Berry.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill, ( 30 November 1874 – 24 जनवरी 1965 ) थी a अंग्रेजों राजनेता जो थी the प्रधान मंत्री of the संयुक्त किंगडम इससे 1940 to 1945 और again from 1951 to 1955.
Widely regarded as एक of the महानतम wartime नेताओ of the 20th सदी, चर्चिल थी भी an officer in the British Army, a historian, a writer, and an artist.
He is the only British Prime Minister in इतिहास to have प्राप्त the नोबेल पुरस्कार in साहित्य, और थी भी the पहला व्यक्ति to be बना an Honorary Citizen of the United States.
Churchill was born into an वैभवशाली परिवार as the पोता of the 7th ड्यूक of marlborough.
His father, Lord randolph चर्चिल, थी a charismatic राजनेता जो परोसा as चांसलर of the Exchequer ; his mother, Jennie Jerome, was an American socialite.
As a young army अधिकारी, he देखी कार्रवाई in अंग्रेजों इण्डिया, the सूडान, और the Second Boer War.
he gained कीर्ति as a युद्ध correspondent और लिखा books about his campaigns.
At the forefront of राजनीती लिये पचास सालो, he आयोजित अनेक political and cabinet positions.
Before the First World War, he served as President of the Board of Trade, Home सचिव, और पहला रब of the admiralty as भाग of the asquith उदार सरकारी.
During the war, he continued as First Lord of the admiralty जबतक the विनाशकारी gallipoli अभियान caused उसके प्रस्थान इससे सरकारी.
He then briefly resumed क्रियाशील फौज सेवा on the पश्चिमी सामने as कमांडर of the 6th बटालियन of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
He returned to government as Minister of munitions, सचिव of राज्य लिये युद्ध, और सचिव of राज्य लिये एयर.
After the युद्ध, चर्चिल परोसा as चांसलर of the exchequer in the रूढ़िवादी ( baldwin ) सरकारी of 1924–29, controversially returning the पाउंड स्टर्लिंग in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy.
Also controversial was his विपक्ष to increased घर नियम लिये इण्डिया और उसके प्रतिरोध to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII.
Out of office and नीतियां `` in the wilderness '' दौरान the 1930s, चर्चिल took the सीसे in चेतावनी about Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament.
On the outbreak of the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, he was again appointed First Lord of the Admiralty.
Following the resignation of Neville चेम्बरलेन on 10 may 1940, चर्चिल became प्रधान Minister.
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat, surrender, or a compromise peace helped inspire अंग्रेजों प्रतिरोध, विशेषकर दौरान the मुश्किल जल्दी दिनों of the युद्ध जब ब्रिटेन stood अलोन among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler.
Churchill was particularly noted for his speeches and रेडियो प्रसारण, जिससे helped inspire the British people.
He led ब्रिटेन as प्रधान मंत्री जबतक विजय over Nazi Germany had been secured.
After the रूढ़िवादी पार्टी खोया the 1945 चुनाव, he became नेता of the विपक्ष to the Labour ( Attlee ) government.
After जीतना the 1951 चुनाव, he again became प्रधान Minister, before retiring in 1955.
Upon his death, Elizabeth II granted him the इज्ज़त of a राज्य अंत्येष्टि, जिससे देखी एक of the largest सभाओं of संसार कूटनीतिज्ञों in history.
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll, Churchill is widely regarded as होने among the सबसे influential लोगों in अंग्रेजों history.
Ruby Gloom is an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ based on an apparel franchise.
The show is produced by nelvana और began airing on अक्तूबर 13, 2006 in Canada on the network YTV.
It stars the आवाज़ें of सारा gadon, एमिली हैम्पशायर, और पीटर Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a compact car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the घाट मोटर कम्पनी चूंकि 1998.
Ford began sales of the फ़ोकस to यूरोपीय in जुलाई 1998 और in उत्तर अमेरिका दौरान 1999 for the 2000 model year.
In Europe, South America, North अमेरिका और दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, the फ़ोकस replaced the विभिन्न संस्करण of the घाट अनुरक्षण sold in those markets.
in एशिया और australasia, it replaced the Ford Laser.
As of the first half of 2012, the Focus surpassed the टोयोटा कोरोला to become the संसार 's बेहतरीन selling ऑटोमोबाइल nameplate.
the फ़ोकस रै महरूम माना एक of the 50 महानतम गाड़ियाँ of the पास्ट पचास years by British magazine CAR.
An agar थाली -- an उदाहरण of a बैक्टीरियल growth medium.
Specifically, it is a streak थाली ; the नारंगी लाइनों और dots हैं formed by bacterial colonies.
A growth medium or culture medium is a द्रव or gel designed to support the विकास of microorganisms or cells, or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens.
There are अलग प्रकार of मीडिया लिये growing अलग types of cells.
There are two major types of growth media : those used for cell culture, which use विशिष्ट कोशिका प्रकार निकला इससे पौधे or पशु, और microbiological संस्कृति, जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त लिये growing microorganisms, ऐसे as bacteria or yeast.
The सबसे आम विकास मीडिया लिये microorganisms हैं nutrient broths और आगर प्लेटों ; specialized मीडिया हैं sometimes required for microorganism and cell culture growth.
Some जीवों, termed सुकुमार जीवों, आवश्यकता specialized environments due to complex nutritional requirements.
Viruses, for example, are obligate intracellular parasites and आवश्यकता a विकास मीडियम containing जीना कोशिकाएं.
A talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, film directors, संगीतकारों, मॉडल, निर्माता, पेशेवर एथलीट, लेखक और अन्य लोगों in विभिन्न entertainment businesses.
An agent भी defends, supports और promotes the interest of his/her clients.
Agents can not produce उनके अपना shows due to conflict of interest.
a हुनर एजेंट जरूर be familiar with their clients.
An agent has to know कया दयालु of कार्य the क्लाएंट can और can नहीं do in अनुक्रम to match them with various jobs.
Having an agent is not जरूरी, लकिन करता सहायता the कलाकार in getting jobs.
In many cases casting directors, or अन्य व्यवसायों, go to हुनर एजेंसियों to ढूँढें कलाकारों वे हैं looking लिये.
The agent is paid a percentage of the स्टार 's आय ( typically 10 % ).
Agents sometimes होगा be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations कि govern अलग प्रकार of एजेंटों कि हैं स्थापित by कलाकार 's संघ और the विधिक jurisdiction in which the agent operates.
वहीँ हैं भी पेशेवर संगठन that license talent agencies.
Since the decline in viewership in theaters, from the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a स्मारकीय शिफ़्ट in कैसा studios होता उपज films और यूँ reducing the लागत of विशेष और महंगी actors.
Actors and actresses were working for the studios लकिन यहूद नहीं स्वामित्व by एक प्रमुख स्टुडियो एंटिटी और so यहूद समर्थ to कार्य on within their time and with other studios.
क्युकी of इस, एजेंटों यहूद अभी देखी as a necessity instead of an option.
Agents now became third पार्टियों कि negotiated between studios और क्लाइंट, इस बनाना उनके सेवाएं imperative between each party.
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts, all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया मजदूर कोड, जिससे काल्स an एजेंट a `` व्यक्ति or निगम जो engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists. ''
Mars has two known moons, Phobos and deimos, जिससे हैं विचार to be captured क्षुद्रग्रह.
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall and are named after the वर्ण phobos ( panic/fear ) और deimos ( terror/dread ) जो, in यूनानी mythology, accompanied their father Ares, god of war, into battle.
एरीस थी ज्ञात as मंगल to the Romans.
It is possible कि मंगल may have moons छोटी than 50 - 100 मीटर और a धूल रिंग between phobos and Deimos may be present but none have been discovered.
In law enforcement parlance, the term हत्या किताब refers to the मामला संचिका of a हत्या छानबीन.
Typically, murder books include crime झाँकी छायाचित्र और sketches, पोस्टमार्टम और forensic रिपोर्ट्स, transcripts of जांचकर्ताओं ' टीप and witness interviews.
The murder book encapsulates the पूरा पेपर ट्रेल of a हत्या छानबीन, इससे the समय the हत्या is first reported through the arrest of a suspect.
Law enforcement agencies typically guard murder books carefully, और it is असामान्य लिये नागरिकों to be दिए आज़ाद अभिगम to ये kinds of records, especially for unsolved cases.
A melon baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller कि varies इससे around 1 centimeter to 3 सेंटीमीटर ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
They are generally प्रयुक्त in फल सलाद.
A KSA, or Knowledge, कौशल, और abilities, is a श्रेणी of कथा कथन कि हैं जरूरी जब applying to United States Federal government job openings.
KSAs are used to determine, along with resumes, जो the बेहतरीन आवेदकों हैं जब अनेक उम्मीदवार qualify लिये a job.
The ज्ञान, कौशल और abilities ( ksas ) जरुरी लिये the कामयाब performance of a position are contained on each job vacancy announcement.
In 2009 the Office of निजी प्रबन्धन पूछा संघीय एजेंसियों to रोकें requiring जॉब आवेदकों to भरण आउट the questionnaires, to be phased out within a year.
KSAs are brief and focused essays about one 's career and शैक्षणिक पृष्ठभूमि कि presumably qualify एक to perform the duties of the position being applied for.
A knowledge, skills, and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's हुनर और विशेषज्ञता और सम्बन्धित अनुभवों ( कार्य, शिक्षा, volunteer ) and accomplishments.
A series of KSA कथन हैं प्रायः जरूरी जब applying लिये सबसे संघीय सरकारी और कुछ राज्य और नगर सरकारी कार्य.
KSAs are used as a गज to assess the सामर्थ्य of a prospective आवेदक in शर्तें of संभावित क्षमता to perform the duties of the job.
Most government hiring officials look for a short, कुरकुरे और साफ ksa कि emphasizes परिणाम or accomplishments प्राप्त in previous work.
ksa कथन हैं भी ज्ञात as मूल्यांकन Factors.
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '', `` Quality रैंकिंग कारकों '', `` ज्ञान, abilities, कौशल और अन्य विशेषताएँ '', or `` जॉब तत्व ''.
The नाम can be बस a नाम लकिन प्रायः it प्रभाव content and length of the essay.
Every agency has its own regulations लकिन सबसे of the समय the प्रत्येक ksa फ़ैक्टर चाहिए be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long.
The below definitions are defined by the u.S. दफ्तर of कर्मियों Management :
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - the गुण जरूरी to perform a जॉब और हैं generally demonstrated through qualifying service, education, or training.
Knowledge - Is a body of सूचना लागू सीधे to the प्रदर्शन of a फलन.
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a सीखे psychomotor act.
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable बर्ताव or a बर्ताव कि परिणाम in an observable product.
The स्कोरिंग of ksa essays is आधारित on a scale of from one to 100.
Job applicants must स्कोर ऊपर 70 to be माना लिये the स्थिति.
High scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible, providing उदाहरण इससे पिछला नियुक्ति or प्रशिक्षण कि clearly demonstrate तुम मिलें the योग्यता.
When applying to federal government positions, a Federal पुनरारंभ is प्रायः जरूरी in जोड to ksa कथन.
सही
Whole grains are cereal grains that contain खाद्यान्न रोगाणु, भ्रूणपोष, और चोकर, in कंट्रास्ट to परिष्कृत दाने, जिससे retain only the endosperm.
Common पूरे दाने include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley - Hulled और dehulled ( नहीं Pearl )
मक्का
भूरा rice
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted दाने
buckwheat
Common पूरे अनाज उत्पाद include:
Whole गेहूं आटा
पूरे गेहूं ब्रैड
पूरे wheat Pasta
Rolled oats or oat groats
triticale आटा
पॉपकॉर्न
teff आटा
Common refined non-whole अनाज उत्पाद include:
Love Always is the डेब्यू एल्बम of अमरीकी r & b duo k-ci & JoJo, released on June 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
It was recorded at various studios in नई यॉर्क और the लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल in 1996 और 1997.
It was produced by जोजो और अनेक अन्य, सहित devante झूले, James Mtume, and Jeff Redd.
The duo were originally a भाग of jodeci पहले इस album.
The album peaked at sixth on the US Billboard 200 और भी appeared on अंतरराष्ट्रीय चार्ट.
The single `` All My Life `` charted क्रमांक एक in अनेक देशों, और सब चार of the एल्बम 's singles peaked ऊपर the top 25 in the US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles.
Love सदा थी प्राप्त favorably by आलोचकों, जो praised the brothers ' singing ability and the production.
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) और सुनहरा by Music Canada and IFPI Sweden.
As of June 1999 it था बेची 2.9 लाख नक़ल in the United States.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ), or tracker mortgage is a mortgage loan with the interest rate on the note periodically समायोजित आधारित on an अनुक्रमणिका जिससे reflects the लागत to the lender of उधार on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's मानक परिवर्तनीय rate/ base rate.
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index, but जहाँ the lender offers no विशिष्ट कड़ी to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the रेट can be बदला at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the United States, whilst in the United States, `` adjustable-rate बंधक '' is सबसे आम, और implies a बंधक regulated by the संघीय सरकारी, साथ कैप्स on charges.
In अनेक देशों, समायोज्य रेट mortgages हैं the norm, and in such places, may simply be referred to as mortgages.
among the सबसे आम indices हैं the दरों on 1-year constant-maturity राजकोष ( CMT ) securities, the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ), and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders उपयोग उनके अपना लागत of निधि as an अनुक्रमणिका, rather than using other indices.
This is done to ensure a स्थिर हाशिया लिये the lender, जिनकी अपना लागत of funding होगा प्रायः be related to the index.
Consequently, payments made by the borrower may बदलें over समय साथ the बदलना ब्याज रेट ( alternatively, the पद of the loan may change ).
This is distinct from the ग्रैजुएट भुगतान बंधक, जिससे offers बदलना भुगतान amounts but a fixed interest rate.
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only बंधक, the फिक्स्ड रेट बंधक, the ऋणात्मक amortization बंधक, और the balloon payment mortgage.
Adjustable rates transfer part of the ब्याज रेट रिस्क इससे the lender to the borrower.
They can be used where मनमौजी ब्याज दरों मेक फिक्स्ड रेट loans difficult to obtain.
The borrower लाभ if the ब्याज रेट जलप्रपात लकिन loses if the ब्याज rate increases.
The borrower benefits from reduced margins to the underlying लागत of उधार compared to फिक्स्ड or capped रेट mortgages.
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy, a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी, took प्लेस shortly बाद मध्यरात्रि on जून 5, 1968, in लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, दौरान the अभियान ऋतु लिये the संयुक्त States Presidential election, 1968.
After winning the California and दक्षिण डकोटा प्राथमिक चुनावों लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, कैनेडी थी शॉट as he walked through the रसोईघर of the दूत Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later.
Sirhan sirhan, a 24-year-old फिलीस्तीनी / जार्डन अप्रवासी, थी convicted of Kennedy 's murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime.
Sirhan 's lawyers have released statements claiming प्रमाण कि he थी framed.
The shooting was अंकित on ऑडियो टेप by a freelance समाचारपत्र रिपोर्टर, और the aftermath was captured on film.
Kennedy 's देह lay in repose at st. पैट्रिक 's गिरजाघर in नई यॉर्क लिये दो दिनों पहले a funeral mass was held on June 8.
His body थी interred निकट उसके bhai जॉन at आर्लिंगटन नेशनल Cemetery.
His मौत prompted the सुरक्षा of अध्यक्षीय candidates by the United States Secret Service.
Hubert humphrey गई on to जीत the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon.
As with his brother Jack 's death, Bobby 's हत्या और the हालातों surrounding it have शाखित a किस्में of षड्यंत्र theories.
As of 2013 कैनेडी remains एक of तभी दो बैठे संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों to be assassinated ( the other being Huey Long ).
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an अनौपचारिक नाम लिये the काल in the इतिहास of मुख्यधारा अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे generally माना to last from the mid-1980s until present day.
In this period, comic book characters generally became गहरा और अधिक psychologically जटिल, creators became better-known और क्रियाशील in बदलना the उद्योग, independent comics flourished, and larger publishing houses became more commercialized.
An alternate name for this period is the अंधेरा आयु of कॉमिक किताबे, due to the लोकप्रियता और कलाकारी influence of grim titles, such as and Watchmen.
When Harry Met Sally... is a 1989 अमरीकी रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा by नोरा ephron और directed by Rob Reiner.
It stars Billy क्रिस्टल as हैरी और मेग रयान as Sally.
The स्टोरी फ़ॉलो the शीर्षक वर्ण इससे the समय वे मिलें बस पहले sharing a cross-country ड्राइव, through twelve years or so of chance encounters in New York City.
The film raises the question `` Can men and women कभी बस be मित्रों ? '' और अग्रिम अनेक विचार परिचय संबंध कि became household अवधारणाओं, ऐसे as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
The origins of the फिल्मी आए इससे reiner 's वापसी to single life after a divorce.
An इंटरव्यू ephron conducted साथ Reiner provided the basis for Harry.
Sally was based on ephron और कुछ of उसके मित्रों.
क्रिस्टल आए on फलक और बना उसके अपना योगदान to the पटकथा, making Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the structure of the film with much of the dialogue based on the real-life दोस्ती between reiner और क्रिस्टल.
The साउंडट्रैक consists of मानकों performed by हैरी connick, jr., साथ a big band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick won his first Grammy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन जैज़ पुरूष गायन प्रदर्शन.
Columbia Pictures released the फिल्मी using the `` मंच '' तकनीक, जिससे शामिल खोलने it in a few चुनें शहरों, letting धनात्मक शब्द of मुँह generate interest, and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks.
When Harry मिले सैली... grossed a कुल of US $ 92.8 million in North America.
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award, an ऑस्कर नामांकन, और a लेखक गिल्ड of अमेरिका पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये उसके पटकथा.
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list of the शीर्ष कॉमेडी films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और क्रमांक 60 on ब्रावो 's `` 100 Funniest Movies ''.
In जल्दी 2004, the फिल्मी थी adapted for the stage in a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger Helper is a लकीर of packaged खाना उत्पाद primarily consisting of boxed पास्ता bundled साथ a पैकेट or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
The contents of each box are संयुक्त साथ browned मैदान बीफ, जल और मिल्क to बनाएँ a complete dish.
the उत्पाद लकीर भी सुविधाएँ उत्पाद साथ अन्य starches such as rice or potatoes instead of pasta.
It is बना by सामान्य मिलों.
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper उत्पाद तभी सप्लाई the मंड मद और the सॉस पैकेट्स, कुछ किस्में of the उत्पाद शामिल ground beef.
These include a frozen food line, which features some of the ब्रांड 's क्लासिक किस्में in a पूरा भोजन kit रूप, साथ frozen मैदान बीफ और frozen सॉस packaged separately इससे the नूडल्स in the same bag.
There is also an `` instant '' version of हैमबर्गर हेल्पर containing निर्जलित मांस, नूडल्स और seasonings in a छोटी थैली, requiring only water to be added.
The हैमबर्गर हेल्पर शुभंकर is the `` helping हाथ '', an anthropomorphic एनिमेटेड, चार fingered left-hand glove, which appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages.
Ceres as seen with the हबल स्पेस दूरदर्शी.
It is the only dwarf ग्रह in the क्षुद्रग्रह बेल्ट.
Pluto in सन्निकट सच्चा रंग आधारित on हबल स्पेस दूरदर्शी albedo data
Haumea with its moons, hiʻiaka और namaka ( कलाकार 's conception )
माकेमाके ( कलाकार 's धारणा )
eris और इसके चंद्रमा dysnomia as देखी साथ the Hubble Space Telescope
A बौना ग्रह is a planetary-mass ऑब्जेक्ट कि is neither a planet nor a satellite.
More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial देह in सीधा कक्षा of the सूर्य कि is विशाल पर्याप्त लिये इसके आकार to be नियंत्रित by gravitation, लकिन कि नापसंद a ग्रह रै नहीं साफ इसके कक्षीय प्रदेश of अन्य वस्तुएँ.
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of लाशें orbiting the सूर्य, brought परिचय by an बढ़ाएँ in discoveries of trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ कि rivaled प्लूटो in आकार, और आखिरकार precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive object, Eris.
This classification राज्य कि लाशें विशाल पर्याप्त to have साफ the neighbourhood of उनके कक्षा हैं पारिभाषित as ग्रह, जबकि those कि हैं नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to be rounded by their own gravity are defined as small Solar System bodies.
बौना ग्रह आइये in between.
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the रोस्टर of ग्रह by the iau रै महरूम दोनो praised और criticized ; it थी कहा to be the `` सही निर्णय '' by माइक भूरा, जो खोजा और अन्य नई बौना ग्रह, but has been rejected by Alan Stern, who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990.
The IAU currently recognizes पाँच बौना ग्रह in the सौर System :, Pluto,,, and.
However, only two of these bodies, ceres और प्लूटो, have महरूम observed in पर्याप्त विवरण to demonstrate कि वे अनुरूप the definition.
Eris has been accepted as a बौना ग्रह क्युकी it is अधिक विशाल than Pluto.
the iau subsequently decided कि बेनाम trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ साथ an निरपेक्ष परिमाण उज्जवल than +1 ( और hence a व्यास of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets.
The only two such objects ज्ञात at the समय, माकेमाके और हउमेया, गई through this naming procedure and were declared to be dwarf planets.
It is suspected कि another सौ or so ज्ञात वस्तुएँ in the Solar System are dwarf planets.
Estimates are that up to 200 बौना ग्रह may be मिला जब the संपूर्ण प्रदेश ज्ञात as the kuiper बेल्ट is छान, और कि the क्रमांक may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered.
Individual astronomers recognize several of these, and in अगस्त 2011 माइक भूरा प्रकाशित a सूची of 390 प्रत्याशी वस्तुएँ, ranging इससे `` nearly निश्चित '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets. '
Brown identifies नौ ज्ञात वस्तुएँ – the पाँच स्वीकृत by the iau प्लस,,, और – as `` वस्तुतः निश्चित '', साथ another two dozen highly likely, and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total.
The classification of bodies in other planetary systems साथ the विशेषताएँ of बौना ग्रह रै नहीं महरूम addressed.
A debit card ( भी ज्ञात as a बैंको कार्ड or जाँच कार्ड ) is a प्लास्टिक भुगतान कार्ड कि provides the cardholder इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अभिगम to उसके or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution.
Some cards have a भंडारित मान साथ जिससे a भुगतान is बना, जबकि सबसे रिले a संदेश to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account.
The card, जहाँ स्वीकृत, can be प्रयुक्त बजाय of नकदी जब making purchases.
In कुछ मामले, the प्राथमिक खाता क्रमांक is आबंटित exclusively लिये उपयोग on the Internet and there is no physical card.
in अनेक देशों, the उपयोग of डेबिट ताश रै become so फैली कि उनके आवाज़ रै overtaken or entirely replaced cheques and, in some instances, cash transactions.
The development of debit cards, unlike credit cards and चार्ज ताश, रै generally महरूम देश विशिष्ट resulting in a क्रमांक of अलग systems around the world, which were often incompatible.
Since the mid-2000s, a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be used in other देशों और अनुमत उनके उपयोग लिये अंतरजाल और फोन purchases.
Unlike credit and charge cards, payments using a debit card are immediately transferred इससे the cardholder 's designated बैंको खाता, बजाय of उन्हें paying the धन वापस at a later date.
डेबिट ताश प्रायः भी allow लिये तत्काल वापसी of नकदी, acting as the ATM card for withdrawing cash.
Merchants may also offer cashback सुविधाएं to ग्राहक, जहाँ a ग्राहक can withdraw नकदी साथ with their purchase.
Francois Henri `` Jack '' lalanne ( सितंबर 26, 1914 - जनवरी 23, 2011 ) थी an अमरीकी फ़िटनेस, कसरत, और nutritional विशेषज्ञ और प्रेरक स्पीकर who is sometimes called `` the godfather of fitness '' and the `` first fitness superhero. ''
He वर्णित खुद as होने a `` sugarholic '' और a `` जंक food junkie '' until he was 15.
He also had behavioral problems, but `` turned his जीवन around '' बाद सुनना to a पब्लिक लेक्चर by पॉल ब्रैग, a well-known पोषण स्पीकर.
During his career, he came to believe that the देश 's overall स्वास्थ्य depended on the स्वास्थ्य of इसके जनसांख्यिकी, लिखने कि `` शारीरिक संस्कृति और पोषण — is the salvation of America. ''
Decades before health और फ़िटनेस began होने प्रचारित by हस्तियाँ जैसे जेन फोंडा और रिचर्ड सीमन्स, lalanne थी already widely पहचाना लिये सरेआम उपदेश the स्वास्थ्य benefits of regular exercise and a good diet.
He published numerous books on fitness and hosted a फ़िटनेस टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ between 1953 and 1985.
As early as 1936, at age 21, he opened one of the स्वदेश 's पहला फ़िटनेस gyms in ओकलैंड, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, जिससे became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s टेलीविज़न कसरत कार्यक्रम थी aimed toward महिलाओं, जिसको he भी encouraged to join his health clubs.
He invented a number of कसरत मशीने, सहित leg-extension और चरखी डिवाइस.
Besides producing उसके अपना श्रेणी of वीडियो, he coached the बुजुर्ग और निष्क्रिय नहीं to forgo कसरत, believing it would enable them to enhance their strength.
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder, as खूब as लिये उसके prodigious feats of strength.
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated, `` कि जोकर lalanne 's an एनिमल !, '' बाद lalanne, at 54, ताल a 21-year-old श्वार्ज़नेगर `` badly '' in an informal contest.
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death, Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by प्रेरणादायी `` अरबों सब over the संसार to सजीव healthier जीवनदान, '' और, as राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, था पहले लगाई उसे on उसके राज्यपाल 's परिषद on Physical Fitness.
Steve Reeves credited lalanne as उसके प्रेरणा to निर्माण उसके muscular physique जबकि keeping a पतला waist.
He was inducted to the कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of कीर्ति और रै a स्टार on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Air forces of most of the देशों उपयोग प्रणाली समान to Armies.
however, the raf और the एयर शक्तियां of अनेक राष्ट्रमंडल देशों, or those formerly अंतर्गत a अंग्रेजों influence, उपयोग a अलग नियत of बाँधने loosely आधारित on नवल समतुल्यता ; लेफ्टिनेंट, Commander, Captain and Commodore are prefixed for air force use with Flight, Wing, Group and Air, respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ).
Penélope Cruz sánchez ( ; born अप्रैल 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an agent at age 15, she made her acting debut at 16 on टेलीविज़न और उसके विशेषता फिल्मी डेब्यू the following साल in jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to नाजुक acclaim.
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your Eyes ( 1997 ), The Hi-Lo देश ( 1999 ), the लड़की of अपना सपनो ( 2000 ) और स्त्री on Top ( 2000 ).
Cruz achieved मान्यता लिये उसके सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow.
She has चूंकि निर्मित a कामयाब करियर, appearing in films इससे a चौड़ी दायरा of जाति, सहित the comedy Waking Up in Reno ( 2002 ), the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ), the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ), and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ).
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in Volver ( 2006 ) and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी ग्लोब और अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations लिये प्रत्येक.
She won the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री in 2008 for Vicky Cristina Barcelona.
She was the पहला स्पेनी अभिनेत्री in इतिहास to प्राप्त an अकादमी Award and the first Spanish actress to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
क्रूज़ रै modeled लिये companies such as Mango, Ralph Lauren and L'Oréal.
Penélope and her younger सिस्टर mónica क्रूज़ have designed वस्तुएं लिये Mango.
She has donated both उसके समय और धन to charities.
Cruz has volunteered in युगांडा और इण्डिया, जहाँ वो खर्च एक सप्ताह working लिये माँ टेरेसा ; वो दान उसके सैलरी इससे ' to help fund the late nun 's mission.
A मोम मूर्तिकला of क्रूज़ होगा be placed in a premier spot in the Grevin Wax Museum in Paris.
File Explorer, previously known as Windows Explorer, is a file manager application and also a नेविगेशन औजार कि is शामिल साथ रिलीज of the microsoft खिड़कियाँ operating system from Windows 95 onwards.
It provides a आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस लिये accessing the file systems.
It is also the component of the operating प्रणाली कि presents अनेक उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस वस्तुएं on the मॉनिटर ऐसे as the taskbar और डेस्कटॉप.
Controlling the कंप्यूटर is संभावित बगैर खिड़कियाँ एक्सप्लोरर कार्यशील ( लिये उदाहरण, the संचिका | चलाएं कमांड in कार्य मैनेजर on nt-derived संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ will function without it, as will commands typed in a command prompt window ).
Located in the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका, it is sometimes referred to as the खिड़कियाँ shell, explorer.exe, or simply “Explorer”.
The Care Bears are characters created by अमरीकी बधाई in 1981 लिये उपयोग on ग्रीटिंग ताश.
The original artwork for the cards was चित्रित by कलाकार एलेना Kucharik.
In 1983, kenner turned the परवाह Bears into plush teddy bears.
The Care Bears appeared in their अपना tv specials पुकारा the परवाह bears in the जमीन बगैर जज्बात ( 1983 ) और the परवाह bears बैटल the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ).
They also had their own television series from 1985 to 1988, in addition to तीन विशेषता films : the परवाह bears फिल्म ( 1985 ), परवाह bears फिल्म ii : a नई पीढी ( 1986 ), and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ).
Each Care Bear comes in a different color and has a specialized तमगा on इसके पेट कि represents इसके ड्यूटी और व्यक्तित्व.
This insignia was known as उनके `` tummy प्रतीक. ''
However, the movie परवाह bears : oopsy करता it ! renamed उन्हें `` पेट badges ''.
Adding to the Care Bear family हैं the `` परवाह भालू cousins '', जिससे विशेषता a शेर, खरगोश, पेंगुइन, raccoon, और अन्य ऐसे पशु निर्मित in the same style as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears यहूद reintroduced साथ नई खिलौने.
बना by play-along खिलौने, the नई खिलौने offered सुविधाएँ ऐसे as illuminated bellies upon touch, aerobic bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears.
As part of this comeback, the bears have appeared in दो computer-animated फिल्मों : परवाह bears : यात्रा to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the मताधिकार मनाये इसके 25th वर्षगांठ ; another relaunch took प्लेस, as खूब as the रिलीज of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It !.
In mid-2011, ag घोषित a पुनरुद्धार tv एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` परवाह bears : स्वागत to Care-a-Lot ``.
The प्रीमियर of the श्रेणी utilizes `` 30 सालो of देखभाल ''.
It premiered on the हब on June 2, 2012.
As of 2013, Care bears merchandise is स्टिल होने marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and फ़्रांस 's moonscoop समूह attempted to acquire the मताधिकार इससे agc, with no apparent success.
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the United States that runs इससे अंतरराज्यीय 15 निकट कोव फोर्ट, यूटा, to a पार्क और सवारी निकट बाल्टीमोर, मेरीलैंड.
It was the first Interstate राजमार्ग प्रोजेक्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य.
I-70 लगभग traces the पाथ of u.S. रूट 40 ( और भी the बूढ़ा नेशनल सड़क ) ईस्ट of the Rocky Mountains.
West of the rockies, the रूट of i-70 थी निकला from multiple sources.
I-70 is the fifth longest अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग, बाद i-90, i-80, I-40, and I-10.
The construction of I-70 in Colorado और यूटा is माना an अभियान्त्रिकी आश्चर्य as the रूट गुजरता through the आइज़नहावर Tunnel, Glenwood Canyon, and the San Rafael Swell.
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest point along the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली साथ an उन्नयन of.
The sections of the interstate in Missouri and कान्सास have रखी अर्जी to be the पहला अंतरराज्यीय in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Though विवादित, the संघीय राजमार्ग प्रशासन रै claimed the खण्ड of i-70 through glenwood canyon, समाप्त in 1992, थी the last piece of the Interstate Highway system, as originally planned, to open to traffic.
फ़ोटो of 1999 कुल eclipse
As seen from the Earth, a solar eclipse occurs जब the चंद्रमा गुजरता between the सूर्य और धरती, और the चंद्रमा fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
This can happen only at नई चंद्रमा, जब the सूर्य और the चंद्रमा हैं in संयोजन as देखी इससे धरती in an alignment referred to as syzygy.
In a कुल ग्रहण, the डिस्क of the सूर्य is fully obscured by the Moon.
In partial and annular eclipses तभी भाग of the सूर्य is obscured.
If the Moon were in a perfectly गोलाकार कक्षा, a छोटी करीब to the धरती, और in the वही कक्षीय plane, there would be total solar eclipses every single month.
However, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at अधिक than 5 डिग्री to धरती 's कक्षा around the सूर्य ( देखिए ecliptic ) so इसके छाया at नई moon usually misses Earth.
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the Moon 's orbit must क्रॉस इस प्लेन in अनुक्रम लिये an ग्रहण ( दोनो सौर as खूब as चंद्र ) to occur.
In addition, the Moon 's actual orbit is elliptical, प्रायः लेने it दूर पर्याप्त दूर इससे धरती कि इसके apparent आकार is नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to ब्लाक the Sun totally.
The orbital planes cross each year at a line of nodes resulting in at तनिक दो, और up to पाँच, सौर eclipses occurring प्रत्येक साल ; no अधिक than दो of which can be total eclipses.
However, total solar eclipses are rare at any particular स्थान क्युकी totality exists तभी साथ a सीमित पाथ on धरती 's सतह traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra.
An ग्रहण is a प्राकृतिक phenomenon.
Nevertheless, in कुछ प्राचीन और आधुनिक संस्कृतियों, सौर eclipses have महरूम attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens.
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its खगोलीय स्पष्टीकरण, as the सूर्य seems to गायब दौरान the दिन और the आसमान darkens in a पदार्थ of मिनट्स.
Because it is खतरनाक to dekh सीधे at the सूर्य, observers चाहिए उपयोग खास नजर सुरक्षा or indirect viewing techniques when viewing a partial eclipse, or the partial phases of a total eclipse.
It is safe to view the total phase of a कुल सौर ग्रहण साथ the unaided नजर and without protection, however.
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles होगा सफर to रिमोट स्थितियाँ to observe or गवाह पूर्वानुमानित सेंट्रल सौर eclipses.
A political party ( from, Genitive partis, `` भाग '', `` portion '' ) is a राजनैतिक संगठन कि typically seeks to influence, or entirely कंट्रोल, सरकारी नीति, प्रायः by nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office.
Parties participate in electoral अभियान और शैक्षणिक मंगवाने or विरोध actions.
Parties प्रायः espouse an विचारधारा or दृष्टि, expressed in a पार्टी कार्यक्रम, bolstered by a लिखा मंच with specific goals, forming a coalition among disparate interests.
The mango is a fleshy stone फल belonging to the genus mangifera, consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting पेड़ in the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae.
The mango is native to South Asia, इससे जहाँ it रै महरूम वितरित विश्वव्यापी to become एक of the सबसे cultivated fruits in the tropics.
While other Mangifera species ( e.g. horse mango, M. foetida ) are also grown on a more स्थानीयकृत आधार, mangifera इंडिका – the 'common आम ' or 'इण्डियाn आम ' – is the तभी आम पेड़ commonly cultivated in अनेक तीव्र and subtropical regions.
It is the national fruit of इण्डिया, पाकिस्तानी और फिलीपीन.
In several cultures, इसके फल और पत्ते हैं ritually प्रयुक्त as पुष्पक सजावट at weddings, public celebrations and religious ceremonies.
Gill arnette byrd, < संदर्भ नाम > एचटीटीपी : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1961 in San Francisco, California ) is a former professional American football player.
He was a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the सैन डिएगो chargers बाद graduating इससे सैन जोस राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों.
Byrd was inducted into the chargers हॉल of Fame in 1998.
He was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High School ( San फ्रांसिस्को ), helping to सीसे the कार्डिनल्स to the नगर चैंपियनशिप in his senior season of 1978.
World मैप प्रर्दशित the tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the Northern tropic, is the circle of latitude on the धरती कि marks the सबसे northerly स्थिति at जिससे the सूर्य may appear सीधे ओवरहेड at its zenith.
This event occurs एकबार प्रति साल, at the समय of the जून संक्रांति, जब the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
It फिलहाल ( साल 2013 ) झूठ at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the Equator.
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart, marking the सबसे southerly स्थिति at जिससे the सूर्य may appear सीधे overhead, is the Tropic of Capricorn.
ये ऊष्णकटिबन्ध हैं दो of the पाँच प्रमुख उपाधि उपायों or प्रमुख वृत्त of अक्षांश that mark maps of the Earth, besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator.
The positions of these circles of अक्षांश ( अन्य than the equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष of रोटेशन सापेक्ष to the plane of its orbit.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, and is फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया, उत्तर अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, और Australia.
Discs using the dvd-video specification आवश्यकता a dvd ड्राइव और an h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 डिकोडर ( e.g., a dvd player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 संपीडित वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः multi-channel स्वरुप as described below ).
Typically, the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, और the बिट रेट is प्रायः adaptive.
It was first available लिये खुदरा around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be प्राप्त इससे dvd format/logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम लिये a शुल्क of $ 5,000.
The specification is नहीं सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ, क्युकी प्रत्येक सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the dvd किताब is मालिकाना और गोपनीय.
In computing and specifically अंतरजाल, a जोंक is एक जो लाभ, प्रायः deliberately, इससे अन्य ' सूचना or प्रयत्न लकिन करता not offer anything in return, or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech.
In economics, this type of बर्ताव is पुकारा `` फ़्री सवारी '' और is संबद्ध with the free rider problem.
Depending on context, leeching करता नहीं necessarily refer to illegal उपयोग of कंप्यूटर संसाधन, लकिन प्रायः बजाय to लालची उपयोग according to तहज़ीब : to wit, using too much of कया is freely दिए बगैर contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it.
The name गर्भाशयी इससे the जोंक, an एनिमल कि झंझट रक्त और तब कोशिशें to leave unnoticed.
Other शर्तें हैं प्रयुक्त, ऐसे as `` freeloader '', लकिन जोंक is the most common.
the पूरा त्रिभुज लोगो, प्रयुक्त in various versions from 1970 to 1993.
The United States Postal Service ( USPS ), also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail, is an independent agency of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी जिम्मेदार लिये providing डाक सेवा in the संयुक्त राज्य.
It is one of the few government एजेंसियों explicitly प्राधिकृत by the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the दूसरी महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, जहाँ बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन थी नियुक्त the first postmaster general.
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 इससे फ्रैंकलिन 's आपरेशन और रूपांतरित into इसके वर्तमान रूप in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act.
The USPS employs over 574,000 मजदूर and operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The USPS is the ऑपरेटर of the largest गाडी बेड़े in the world.
The USPS is legally obligated to serve सब अमेरिकी, regardless of geography, at uniform price and quality.
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` u.S. मेल '' और निजी letterboxes in the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन स्टिल competes विरूद्ध निजी पैकेज डिलीवरी services, such as UPS and FedEx.
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars चूंकि the जल्दी 1980s साथ the नाबालिग एक्सेप्शन of subsidies लिये लागत संबद्ध साथ the disabled and overseas voters.
Since the 2006 all-time शिखर मेल आवाज़, बाद जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed the डाक जवाबदेही और enhancement अधिनियम ``, ( जिससे mandated $ 5.5 अरब प्रति साल to be सशुल्क into an खाता to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the future, a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume, prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit.
Washington, D.C. has been the पूंजी of the संयुक्त राज्य since 1800.
Eight other cities have served as the meeting प्लेस लिये कॉंग्रेस और हैं इसलिए माना to have एकबार been the capital of the United States.
In addition, each of the 50 U.S. states and the five प्रिंसिपल territories of the संयुक्त राज्य maintains its own capital.
राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड नियत in a ring
The राजकुमारी काटें is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय काटें आकार लिये ईंट, अगला to a round brilliant.
The face-up आकार of the राजकुमारी काटें is वर्गाकार or आयताकार और the प्रोफ़ाइल or side-on आकार is similar to that of an inverted pyramid with four beveled sides.
The princess cut is a relatively new डायमंड काटें, having महरूम निर्मित in the 1960s.
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more लोकप्रिय गोलाकार शानदार काटें, in जिससे the शीर्ष of डायमंड, पुकारा the क्राउन, is काटें साथ a गोलाकार face-up आकार और the नीचे, पुकारा the मण्डप, is shaped similar to a cone.
A princess cut with the same width as the व्यास of a गोलाकार शानदार होगा तौल अधिक as it रै चार किनारे जिससे would otherwise have been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant.
The princess cut is sometimes referred to as a वर्गाकार परिवर्धित शानदार.
However, while displaying the same high degree of brilliance, इसके faceting स्टाइल is अद्वितीय और completely अलग इससे कि of a round brilliant.
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` क्रॉस '' काटें क्राउन और a श्रेणी of अद्वितीय, chevron-shaped facets in the मण्डप जिससे combine to दे a पृथक cross-shaped प्रतिबिंब जब the स्टोन is viewed सीधे through the table.
Effectively, the Princess cut combines the high degree of light वापसी of a गोलाकार शानदार काटें साथ a distinctive वर्गाकार or आयताकार shape.
the वर्गाकार राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड is प्रायः थोड़ा सस्ता than गोलाकार शानदार काटें ईंट of the वही carat weight because it retains about 80 % of the rough diamond, as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough.
The ability to retain अधिक क्रिस्टल वज़न makes इस आकार लोकप्रिय amongst diamond cutters.
accredited gem appraisers ( आगा ) और अमरीकी gem समाज प्रयोगशाला ( agsl ) और यूरोपीय gem laboratories-usa ( EGL-USA ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut.
There is no universal definition of what measurements make an आदर्श राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड और अनेक डायमंड निर्माताओं मार्केट आदर्श ईंट साथ differing facet पैटर्न और कोण as `` ideal cut ''.
In contrast to the AGSL, AGA, and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough उद्योग सर्वसम्मति or अनुभवजन्य आंकड़ा to बताएँ काटें ग्रेडिंग मानकों लिये राजकुमारी काटें ईंट और to do so is at the रिस्क of उपभोक्ता जो may be धोखे by ईंट accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades.
The name `` Princess Cut '' was originally used in connection साथ another डायमंड काटें, वरना ज्ञात as the `` प्रोफ़ाइल '' काटें, designed by arpad Nagy, a London cutter, in 1961.
The वही नाम थी बाद प्रयुक्त और बना लोकप्रिय by ygal पर्लमैन, Betzalel Ambar, and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979.
A similar cut with only 49 facets, as opposed to the असली 58 facets of the राजकुमारी काटें, थी बाद ब्रांडेड the `` quadrillion '' and initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles.
तीन सालो of ऑप्टिकल शोध yielded a वर्गाकार स्टोन साथ faceting समान to that of a round brilliant cut diamond.
A तुलना
The number of chevrons can affect the overall आउटलुक of a राजकुमारी काटें diamond.
This can प्रायः be संकल्पित by the तार आरेख कि is plotted in diamond grading reports.
By adding more chevrons on the मण्डप पक्ष of the डायमंड, the व्यक्तिगत facets of the diamond will now be broken down into smaller facets.
As a result, it can दे a राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड a `` कुचल ice '' look.
Vice versa, जब a राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड रै lesser chevrons, it tends to give the diamond a chunky outlook due to broader facets.
The domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the धूसर भेड़िया ( canis lupus ), a सदस्य of the कैनिडाए परिवार of the mammalian order Carnivora.
the पद `` घरेलू श्वान '' is generally used for both domesticated and feral varieties.
The dog has been the first animal to be domesticated और रै महरूम the सबसे widely रखा working, शिकार, और पालतु एनिमल in human history.
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine प्रजाति, as opposed to the शब्द `` कुतिया '' लिये the मादा of the species.
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 सालो पहले लकिन,, the oldest चट्टान नमूनों genetically linked to the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago.
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें जल्दी बनने सर्वव्यापी across world cultures.
Dogs perform many roles for people, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, सुरक्षा, assisting पुलिस और सैन्य, companionship, and, more recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
This impact on human society has given them the nickname `` man 's बेहतरीन dost '' in the पश्चिमी संसार.
In some संस्कृतियों, कुत्तो हैं भी a सोर्स of meat.
In 2001, there were estimated to be 400 लाख कुत्तो in the संसार.
Most breeds of dogs are at most a few hundred years old, having been artificially चयनित लिये particular morphologies और व्यवहार by लोगों लिये विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक roles.
through इस चयनात्मक प्रजनन, the श्वान रै विकसित into सैंकड़ों of varied breeds, और shows अधिक behavioral and morphological variation than any other land mammal.
For example, height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the Irish Wolfhound ; color varies from white through grays ( usually called `` blue '' ) to black, and browns इससे लाइट ( तन ) to अंधेरा ( `` रेड '' or `` चॉकलेट '' ) in a चौड़ी विभिन्नता of पैटर्न ; coats can be छोटी or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, curly, or smooth.
It is आम लिये सबसे breeds to शेड this coat.
आरेख of a हस्तांतरण electron microscope
A 1973 Siemens electron सूक्ष्मदर्शी, musée देस कला et métiers, Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a प्रकार of सूक्ष्मदर्शी कि उपयोग an इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम to illuminate a specimen and produce a magnified image.
An EM has greater resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the ढांचा of छोटी वस्तुएँ क्युकी electrons have wavelengths परिचय 100,000 टाइम्स shorter than दृश्य light photons.
They can achieve बेहतर than 50 pm रेज़ोल्यूशन और magnifications of up to परिचय 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal लाइट microscopes are limited by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x.
The इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी उपयोग electrostatic और इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक lenses to control the electron beam and focus it to form an image.
These electron ऑप्टिकल lenses हैं analogous to the कांच lenses of a लाइट optical microscope.
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range of biological and अकार्बनिक नमूनों सहित microorganisms, कोशिकाएं, विशाल अणुओं, biopsy नमूने, धातुओं, और crystals.
Industrially, the electron microscope is प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये विशेषता कंट्रोल और विफलता विश्लेषण.
Modern electron microscopes produce electron micrographs, using specialized डिजिटल कैमरे or फ़्रेम grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried मुर्गा तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां संस्थापित in 1972 in नई ऑरलियन्स, Louisiana.
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as popeyes मुर्गा & बिस्कुट or popeyes मुर्गा & seafood, it थी acquired by sandy स्रोतों, Georgia -based AFC Enterprises, originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company, in 1993.
According to a company press release dated June 29, 2007, Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group, measured by number of units '', with more than 1,800 restaurants in more than 40 states and the District of Columbia, and over 22 countries worldwide including Turkey, Northern Cyprus, Bahrain, चीन, हांग काँग, इराकी, इंडोनेशिया, जॉर्डन, कुवैत, संयुक्त अरब अमीरात, जापानी, मलेशिया, सऊदी अरब, दक्षिण कोरियाई, सिंगापुर, Canada, Jamaica, Guyana, Suriname, Mexico, Trinidad, Puerto Rico, Honduras, Vietnam, Panama, Peru, and Costa Rica.
परिचय तीस स्थितियाँ हैं company-owned, the rest franchised.
The leg press is a weight प्रशिक्षण कसरत in जिससे the व्यक्तिगत pushes a वज़न or प्रतिरोध away from them using their legs.
The term leg press also refers to the apparatus प्रयुक्त to perform इस कसरत.
The leg press can be प्रयुक्त to evaluate an खिलाड़ी 's overall निम्नतर देह शक्ति ( इससे घुटना joint to hip ).
Using the तिर्यक sled-type लेग press machine.
There are दो प्रमुख प्रकार of leg press:
The तिर्यक or लंबवत 'sled ' प्रकार लेग press.
वज़न डिस्क ( प्लेटों ) हैं संलग्न सीधे to the sled, which is mounted on rails.
The user sits नीचे the sled और pushes it upward with their feet.
These मशीने सामान्यतः शामिल समायोज्य सुरक्षा कोष्ठक कि prevent the उपयोक्ता from being trapped under the weight.
the 'cable ' प्रकार लेग दबायें, or 'seated लेग दबायें ', commonly found on multigyms.
The user sits upright and pushes आगे साथ उनके फीट onto a थाली कि is संलग्न to the वज़न stack by means of a long steel cable.
Wendy विलियम्स शिकारी ( born वेन्डी जोन विलियम्स ; जुलाई 18, 1964 ) is an American media personality, actress and author.
वो होस्ट a syndicated टेलीविज़न बात show, The Wendy Williams Show.
prior to टेलीविज़न, विलियम्स थी a `` शॉक jockette `` on several radio shows.
Williams रै gained सुर्खी लिये उसके on-air spats with celebrities.
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called The वेन्डी विलियम्स अनुभव जिससे ब्रॉडकास्ट कार्यक्रम surrounding उसके रेडियो show.
She has written an autobiography and अनेक अन्य किताबे, और रै निर्मित a उत्पाद लकीर पुकारा Adorn by Wendy Williams.
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' speech पहले the हाउस of burgesses in an 1851 पेंटिंग by Peter F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty, or give me मौत ! '' is a quotation attributed to पैट्रिक हेनरी इससे a वाक he made to the Virginia Convention.
On that day, at st. जॉन 's गिरिजाघर in रिचमंड, वर्जिनिया, और is credited साथ having swung the संतुलन in convincing the वर्जिनिया हाउस of burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War.
among the delegates to the सम्मेलन यहूद भविष्य us राष्ट्रपतियों Thomas Jefferson and George Washington.
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada.
Situated in the देश 's अटलांटिक प्रदेश, it incorporates the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और mainland Labrador to the northwest, with a combined area of.
In 2011, the प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी was 514,536.
Approximately 92 प्रतिशत of the प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी जीवनदान on the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड ( सहित its associated smaller islands ), of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula.
The province is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous, with 97.6 % of निवासियों रिपोर्टिंग अंग्रेज़ी ( न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड अंग्रेज़ी ) as उनके माँ जीभ in the 2006 census ;.
Historically, Newfoundland was भी घर to अद्वितीय किस्में of फ्रेंच, और आयरिश, as खूब as the now-extinct Beothuk language.
In Labrador, local dialects of innu-aimun और inuktitut हैं भी spoken.
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest city, St. John 's, is कनाडा 's 20th-largest जनसांख्यिकी महानगर क्षेत्रफल, और is घर to लगभग 40 percent of the province 's population.
St. John 's is the seat of government, home to the House of सभा of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador और the उच्चतम अदालत in the क्षेत्राधिकार, the न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador Court of Appeal.
A former colony and dominion of the United Kingdom, न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador became the दसवाँ प्रांत to डालें the कनाडाई कनफेडरेशन on कूच 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
On December 6, 2001, an amendment was made to the संविधान of कनाडा to बदलें the प्रांत 's आधिकारिक नाम to न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador.
In day-to-day conversation, however, Canadians generally स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और to the प्रदेश on the कनाडाई mainland as Labrador.
थियोडोर `` t.r. ''
Roosevelt, Jr. ( ; अक्तूबर 27, 1858—january 6, 1919 ) थी the 26th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted for his समृद्ध व्यक्तित्व, दायरा of रूचि और उपलब्धियाँ, और उसके नेतृत्व of the प्रगतिशील Movement, as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity.
He was a नेता of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और संस्थापक of the पहला अवतार of the short-lived प्रगतिशील ( `` सांड Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
Before बनने अध्यक्ष, he आयोजित कार्यालयों at the city, state, and federal levels.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, एक्सप्लोरर, शिकारी, लेखक, और सिपाही हैं as much a part of his fame as any office he held as a politician.
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the United States in 1901, making him the youngest अध्यक्ष कभी ; he ताल आउट the youngest निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष, जॉन F. कैनेडी, by तभी एक साल.
Roosevelt थी भी the पहला of तभी तीन बैठे राष्ट्रपतियों to have won the Nobel Peace Prize.
The टेडी भालू is नामित बाद उसे, despite उसके अवमानना लिये होने called `` Teddy ''.
Born into a wealthy family in New York City, रूज़वेल्ट थी a sickly चाइल्ड जो suffered इससे दमा और ठहरे at घर studying natural history.
To overcome उसके शारीरिक कमज़ोरी, he embraced a strenuous life.
Home-schooled, he became an eager छात्र of प्रकृति.
He attended Harvard University, where he studied जीवविज्ञान, boxed और विकसित an ब्याज in naval affairs.
In 1881, one year out of Harvard, he was elected to the New York State सभा, जहाँ he became a नेता of the सुधार गुट of उसके रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ( the `` GOP '' ).
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) स्थापित उसके पेशेवर प्रतिष्ठा as a गंभीर इतिहासकार ; he लिखा numerous किताबे on शिकार, the बाहरी, and current political issues, as well as frontier history.
In 1884, his first wife और उसके माँ died on the वही day.
He temporarily बाएँ राजनीती और गई to the frontier, बनने a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to New York City, he ran लिये महापौर in 1886, finishing तीसरा साथ 60,000 votes.
he बाद gained कीर्ति by लेने vigorous charge of the city police.
at the नेशनल स्तर, he थी a leader in civil service reform.
The spanish–american युद्ध broke आउट in 1898 जबकि रूज़वेल्ट थी, effectively, कार्यशील the Department of the Navy.
He promptly resigned and formed the अशिष्ट राइडर्स – a स्वयंसेवी प्यादे रेजीमेंट that fought in Cuba.
The war hero was elected राज्यपाल in 1898 और in 1900 थी मनोनीत for vice president.
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect अध्यक्ष विलियम mckinley on a मंच of ऊँची tariffs, the सुनहरा मानक, साम्राज्यवाद, समृद्धि at home and victory abroad.
In 1901, अध्यक्ष विलियम mckinley थी assassinated and Roosevelt became President.
He attempted to मूव the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ( gop ) toward प्रगतिवाद, सहित विश्वास busting and increased regulation of businesses.
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 बाद having ascended to the प्रेसिडेंसी ( इससे the vice-presidency ) upon the मौत of उसके पूर्ववर्ती, जीतना the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय vote चूंकि the uncontested चुनाव of 1820.
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` वर्गाकार सौदे `` to describe his domestic agenda, emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies.
As an outdoorsman और naturalist, he प्रचारित the conservation movement.
On the world stage, रूज़वेल्ट 's नीतियों यहूद characterized by उसके स्लोगन, `` बोलो softly and carry a big stick ``.
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common पूर्वज ( s ) ( अन्य than a जनक, child/descendant, सहोदर, child/descendant of a सहोदर, or sibling of a parent/ancestor ).
However in common parlance, `` cousin '' सामान्यतः specifically अर्थात् `` पहला cousin ''.
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' are used in the english-speaking संसार to describe the सटीक संबंध between दो cousins ( in the व्यापक भाव ) और the पूर्वज they have in common.
Various governmental entities have established systems for legal use that can more precisely specify kinships with common ancestors existing any क्रमांक of पीढियां in the पास्ट, हालांकि आम उपयोग प्रायः eliminates the डिग्री और removals और refers to लोगों साथ आम ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives ''.
Webster is an अमरीकी हालात कॉमेडी कि aired on एबीसी इससे सितंबर 16, 1983 जबतक may 8, 1987, और in first-run अनुप्रयोग इससे September 21, 1987 until March 10, 1989.
The series थी निर्मित by stu चांदी.
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy जो, बाद खोने उसके अभिभावक, is अपनाया by उसके एनएफएल -pro गॉडफादर, portrayed by एलेक्स karras, और उसके नई socialite बीवी, निभाई by सुसान Clark.
The focus was largely on how this impulsively शादीशुदा युगल था to समायोजन to उनके नई जीवनदान और अचानक parenthood, लकिन it थी the अनुकूल वेबस्टर himself who drove much of the plot.
The series was उत्पादित by जॉर्जियाई खाड़ी ltd., emmanuel लुईस entertainment Enterprises, Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television.
Like NBC 's पहले hit diff'rent स्ट्रोक्स, वेबस्टर featured a young African-American boy adopted by a white family.
तीन प्रकार of कोशिका division
Cell division is the प्रक्रम by जिससे a जनक कोशिका divides into two or more daughter cells.
कोशिका प्रभाग प्रायः occurs as भाग of a larger cell cycle.
In eukaryotes, there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative प्रभाग, whereby प्रत्येक बेटी कोशिका is genetically एकसमान to the जनक कोशिका ( समसूत्रण ), और a reductive कोशिका प्रभाग, whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half, to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ).
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in उनके जीवन साईकिल, और दोनो हैं believed to be उपस्थित in the पिछला eukaryotic आम पूर्वज prokaryotes भी undergo a vegetative कोशिका प्रभाग known as binary fission, where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells.
All cell divisions, regardless of सजीव, हैं preceded by a सिंगल गोलाकार of DNA replication.
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba, one cell division is समतुल्य to जनन – an संपूर्ण नई सजीव is निर्मित.
On a larger स्केल, mitotic कोशिका प्रभाग can बनाएँ progeny इससे बहुकोशिकीय जीवों, such as plants that grow from cuttings.
कोशिका प्रभाग भी enables sexually reproducing जीवों to develop इससे the one-celled zygote, which itself was produced by cell division from gametes.
And after growth, cell division allows लिये continual निर्माण और मरम्मत of the सजीव.
A human being 's body experiences परिचय 10,000 खरब कोशिका विभाजन in a lifetime.
Cell division रै महरूम modeled by परिमित subdivision rules.
The प्राथमिक चिंता of कोशिका प्रभाग is the मेंटेनेंस of the original cell 's genome.
Before division can occur, the genomic सूचना कि is भंडारित in गुणसूत्रों जरूर be replicated, और the duplicated genome जरूर be अलग cleanly between cells.
A great deal of cellular अवसंरचना is शामिल in keeping genomic सूचना सतत between `` generations ''.
Mountain सीमाएँ of मैसाचुसेट्स, संयुक्त States.
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones, 23 फ़रवरी 1955, southampton, हैम्पशायर, इंग्लैण्ड ) is a अंग्रेजों संगीतकार, singer and songwriter.
According to the Guinness Book of British Hit singles & एल्बम, `` जोन्स is an संपन्नता singer-songwriter जो थी a नियमित chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop.
Jones, who was equally popular in the u.S., appeared at सजीव सहायता ``.
Allmusic पत्रकार, स्टीफन थामस erlewine adds, `` जोन्स थी एक of the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop.
His music मिलाया the प्रौद्योगिकी intensive ध्वनि of नई वेव with the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop.
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s, पहले he retreated into होने a cult फिगर in the 1990s ''.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय आइल of man tt ( पर्यटक ट्रॉफी ) रेस is a मोटरसाइकिल रेसिंग इवेंट आयोजित on the Isle of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world.
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 before being transferred to the संयुक्त किंगडम बाद सुरक्षा चिंताएं और चलाएं by the fim as the अंग्रेजों ग्रैंड प्रिक्स लिये the 1977 season.
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of the TT Formula 1 चैंपियनशिप इससे 1977 to 1990 to बचाना the इवेंट 's रेसिंग औकात.
From 1989 the racing has been विकसित by the आइल of man विभाग of पर्यटन as the आइल of Man TT Festival.
The race is चलाएं in a time-trial स्वरूप on पब्लिक सड़कें बंद लिये रेसिंग by the प्रावधानों of an अधिनियम of Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ).
The first race was held on Tuesday 28 May 1907 और थी पुकारा the अंतरराष्ट्रीय auto-cycle पर्यटक ट्रॉफी.
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 गोद of the st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स of 15 मील 1,470 गज लिये road-legal touring मोटरसाइकिल साथ exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals and mud-guards.
The winner of the single-cylinder class, और overall विजेता of the पहला इवेंट in 1907, थी चार्ली collier सवारी a matchless मोटरसाइकिल in a time of 4 hours, 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph.
The winner of the twin-cylinder class was rem fowler सवारी a peugeot एंजिन नॉर्टन in a समय of 4 घंटों 21 मिनट्स और 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph.
The trophy प्रस्तुत to चार्ली collier as the विजेता of the 1907 आइल of Man TT Race, was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars.
It featured a stylised संस्करण of ओलम्पिक परमेश्वर hermes by giovanni da बोलोग्ना as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel.
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat सुनहरा montague ट्रॉफी प्रस्तुत to जॉन नेपियर ( arrol-johnston ) as the inaugural विजेता of the आइल of man पर्यटक Trophy car race in 1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy.
The Marquis de mouzilly st. मंगल ट्रॉफी is अभी प्रस्तुत annually to the विजेता of the आइल of man वरिष्ठ TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between 26 may और 8 जून 2007 और प्रदर्शित a खास re-enactment of the 1907 आइल of man tt रेस आयोजित on the गाँव green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
The vintage parade of 100 classic मोटरसाइकिल लिये the centenary re-enactment on the असली st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स थी flagged दूर by पूर्व संसार motor-cycle Champion Geoff Duke.
the पहला of the भागीदार to be flagged दूर थी the recently लौटी twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first Isle of Man TT Race in 1907.
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy Martin सवारी a 1938 triumph बाघ 100 500 cc और अन्य पूर्व tt प्रतिस्पर्धी सहित एलन cathcart, सैमी मिलर, Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap.
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs जब लोगों हैं बगैर कार्य और actively seeking work.
the बेरोजगारी रेट is a माप of the व्यापकता of बेरोजगारी और it is गणना as a प्रतिशत by dividing the क्रमांक of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force.
During periods of recession, an अर्थव्यवस्था प्रायः अनुभवों a अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची unemployment rate.
According to International श्रमिक संगठन रपट, अधिक than 197 लाख लोगों globally हैं आउट of कार्य or 6 % of the संसार 's workforce were without a job in 2012.
There remains considerable सैद्धांतिक बहस regarding the कल्याणकारी, consequences and solutions for unemployment.
Classical economics, New classical economics, and the आस्ट्रिया स्कूल of अर्थशास्त्र argue कि मार्केट mechanisms हैं विश्वसनीय अर्थात् of resolving unemployment.
These theories argue विरूद्ध interventions imposed on the मजदूर मार्केट इससे the बाहर, ऐसे as unionization, minimum wage laws, taxes, and other regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers.
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical प्रकृति of बेरोजगारी और अनुशंसा government interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions.
This सिद्धान्त focuses on तूल झटके कि एकाएक reduce कुल demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers.
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to बढ़ाएँ माँग लिये मजदूर ; ये can शामिल वित्तीय stimuli, सरेआम वित्तपोषित जॉब सृष्टि, और expansionist monetary policies.
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment, there are a few categorizations of unemployment that हैं प्रयुक्त to अधिक precisely मॉडल the प्रभाव of बेरोजगारी within the economic system.
The main types of unemployment शामिल संरचनात्मक बेरोजगारी जिससे focuses on संरचनात्मक समस्याएं in the अर्थव्यवस्था और inefficiencies अंतर्निहित in श्रमिक बाज़ार, including a mismatch between the supply and demand of laborers with necessary skill sets.
Structural arguments emphasize causes and solutions related to विघटनकारी technologies और वैश्वीकरण.
Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to work based on each individuals ' valuation of their अपना कार्य और कैसा कि compares to वर्तमान मजदूरी दरों प्लस the समय और प्रयत्न जरूरी to ढूँढें a job.
Causes and solutions for frictional बेरोजगारी प्रायः पता जॉब प्रविष्टि दहलीज और wage rates.
Behavioral economists हाइलाइट व्यक्तिगत biases in निर्णय बनाना, और प्रायः involve समस्याएं और समाधान concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages.
Collectivism is any philosophic, political, धार्मिक, आर्थिक, or सोशल आउटलुक कि emphasizes the interdependence of प्रत्येक इंसान being in a society or civilization.
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse of व्यक्तिगत in इंसान प्रकृति ( in the वही रास्ता ऊँची कॉन्टेक्स्ट संस्कृति exists as the रिवर्स of कम कॉन्टेक्स्ट संस्कृति ).
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion भीतर सोशल समूह ( ऐसे as an `` in-group '', in कया विशिष्ट कॉन्टेक्स्ट it is पारिभाषित ) और in कुछ मामले, the प्रधानता of group goals over individual goals.
Collectivists often फ़ोकस on जातियाँ, समाज, स्वदेश or country.
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of सरकारी और राजनैतिक, आर्थिक और शैक्षणिक तत्त्वज्ञान throughout इतिहास और सबसे इंसान समाजों in अभ्यास contain तत्व of दोनो व्यक्तिगत और collectivism.
Some examples of collectivist संस्कृतियों शामिल इण्डिया और जापानी.
collectivism can be विभाजित into आड़ा collectivism and vertical collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals, और is यूँ प्रायः आधारित on decentralization और समतावाद.
Vertical collectivism is आधारित on hierarchical structures of शक्ति और on moral और cultural conformity, and is therefore based on centralization and hierarchy.
A cooperative enterprise would be an उदाहरण of आड़ा collectivism, whereas a सैन्य पदानुक्रम होता be an उदाहरण of लंबवत collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an immune mediated disease of the brain.
It प्रायः occurs following a वाइरल संक्रमण लकिन may appear following टीकाकरण, बैक्टीरियल or parasitic infection, or even appear spontaneously.
As it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is similar to अनेक काठिन्य, और is माना भाग of the अनेक sclerosis borderline diseases.
The incidence रेट is परिचय 8 प्रति 1,000,000 लोगों per year.
Although it occurs in सब आयु, सबसे reported मामले हैं in children और adolescents, साथ the औसत age around 5 to 8 years old.
The mortality rate may be as ऊँची as 5 %, पूरा रिकवरी is देखी in 50 to 75 % of मामले, जबकि up to 70 to 90 % recover with some minor residual disability.
the औसत समय to रिकवर is one to six months.
ADEM produces अनेक जलन lesions in the दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord, particularly in the white matter.
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white matter and cortical gray-white जंक्शन of दोनो दिमागी बांटती, cerebellum, brainstem, और स्पाइनल cord, लकिन periventricular श्वेत पदार्थ और gray matter of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved.
When the patient suffers more than एक demyelinating एपीसोड, it is पुकारा तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ).
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestion प्रणाली जिससे कृत्यों as an महत्वपूर्ण अंग of the digestive ट्रैक्ट in कुछ पशु, सहित vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
it is शामिल in the दूसरी phase of digestion, following mastication ( chewing ).
The पेट is स्तिथ between the ग्रासनाल और the छोटी intestine.
It secretes protein-digesting एंजाइमों पुकारा protease और दमदार acids to सहायता in खाना पाचन, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines.
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is निकला इससे the यूनानी शब्द stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately इससे stoma ( ), `` मुँह ''.
The शब्द gastro- और gastric ( अर्थ सम्बन्धित to the पेट ) हैं both derived from the Greek word gaster ( ).
1940 pontiac खास श्रेणी 25 Woodie
A woodie is a car देह स्टाइल, विशेषकर a स्टेशन वैगन, जहाँ the पश्च bodywork is constructed of लकडी फ्रेमवर्क with infill panels of wood or painted metal.
After the निधन of वास्तविक लकडी निर्माण, निर्माताओं प्रयुक्त अनुकरण woodgrain चादर vinyl—sometimes augmented साथ three-dimensional, अनुकरण framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, wood construction was जगाई abstractly on the घाट फ्लेक्स साथ a श्रेणी of पक्ष और पश्च आड़ा डोले.
A pearl is a hard ऑब्जेक्ट उत्पादित भीतर the नरम ऊतक ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc.
Just जैसे the शेल of a clam, a पर्ल is बना up of कैल्सियम कार्बोनेट in minute crystalline form, which has been deposited in concentric layers.
The ideal pearl is perfectly गोलाकार और चिकना, लकिन अनेक अन्य आकार of मोती ( baroque pearls ) occur.
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and वस्तुएँ of सौंदर्य लिये अनेक सदियां, and because of this, the word pearl has become a metaphor for something very rare, fine, admirable, and valuable.
The most valuable pearls occur अनायास in the जंगली, लकिन वे हैं अत्यधिक rare.
These जंगली मोती हैं referred to as natural pearls.
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels मेक up the बहुमत of those कि हैं currently sold.
Imitation pearls are also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry, but the विशेषता of उनके iridescence is प्रायः बहुत ग़रीब, और प्रायः, कृत्रिम मोती हैं easily distinguished from genuine pearls.
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated primarily for उपयोग in आभूषण, लकिन in the पास्ट वे यहूद भी सिले onto lavish clothing.
Pearls have also महरूम कुचल और प्रयुक्त in कॉस्मेटिक्स, दवाइयाँ, और in पेंट formulations.
Whether wild or cultured, gem quality मोती हैं लगभग सदा nacreous और, as is the आंतरिक of the शेल कि produces them.
However, almost all species of shelled molluscs हैं सक्षम of producing मोती ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by कुछ स्त्रोत ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape.
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological लैब्स और भी अंतर्गत u.S. संघीय व्यापार आयोग नियम, और हैं formed in the वही रास्ता, सबसे of them have no value, except as curiosities.
Bing ( known previously as Live Search, Windows Live Search, और एमएसएन ढूंढें ) is a वेब ढूंढें इंजन ( advertised as a `` निर्णय engine `` ) from Microsoft.
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO स्टीव बाल्मर on may 28, 2009 at the सब बाते डिजिटल conference in San Diego for release on June 1.
Notable changes include the listing of search suggestions while प्रश्नों हैं डाला और a सूची of सम्बन्धित खोज ( पुकारा `` explore फलक '' ) आधारित on semantic प्रौद्योगिकी इससे powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
On July 29, 2009, microsoft और याहू ! घोषित a सौदे in जिससे bing होता शक्ति Yahoo ! Search.
All Yahoo ! ढूंढें वैश्विक ग्राहक और साझेदार हैं अपेक्षित to have बना the transition by early 2012.
In October 2011, Bing घोषित it थी working on नई back-end ढूंढें अवसंरचना, साथ the लक्ष्य of delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users.
Known as `` बाघ '', the नई index-serving प्रौद्योगिकी रै महरूम incorporated into bing globally, since August 2011.
In May 2012, Bing announced another redesign of its search engine that includes `` Sidebar '', a social विशेषता कि खोज उपयोक्ता ' सोशल संजाल लिये सूचना प्रासंगिक to the search query.
A diagram showing an I गठन on ठोकर और a 4-3 गठन on defense
In American football, each टोली रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the फ़ील्ड at one time.
the विशिष्ट भूमिका कि a खिलाड़ी takes on the field is called their position.
Under the आधुनिक नियम of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, टीमों हैं अनुमत असीमित subsititutions, that is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of खिलाड़ी, the ठोकर ( the टोली साथ the बॉल, जो is trying to स्कोर ), the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे स्कोरिंग, और to लो the बॉल इससे उन्हें ), और the खास टीमों ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on कया the खिलाड़ी 's main job is.
The Irish people ( or na héireannaigh ; ulster-scots : airish fowk ) हैं an जातीय समूह जो originate in Ireland, an island in northwestern Europe.
Ireland has been populated for around 9,000 सालो ( according to पुरातत्व अध्ययन, देखिए प्रागैतिहासिक Ireland ).
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they are claimed to be descended इससे समूह ऐसे as the nemedians, fomorians, fir bolg, tuatha dé danann और the milesians.
lebor gabála érenn, a किताब of आयरिश mythology tells that Milesians were Scythian descendants.
The main groups कि interacted साथ the आयरिश in the मध्य आयु शामिल the Picts, Scots, and the Vikings.
Due to this सम्पर्क, icelanders हैं विख्यात लिये having some Irish descent.
The Anglo-Norman आक्रमण of the ऊँची मध्य आयु, the अंग्रेज़ी बागानों और the subsequent अंग्रेज़ी नियम of the देश introduced the Normans and Flemish into Ireland.
Welsh, Picts, Bretons, and small parties of Gauls and भी anglo-saxons हैं ज्ञात in आयरलैंड इससे much पहले टाइम्स.
वहीँ have महरूम अनेक notable Irish people throughout history.
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary columbanus is regarded as एक of the `` fathers of यूरोपीय '', followed by kilian of würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg.
The scientist Robert Boyle is माना the `` पिता of रसायन ``.
Famous Irish explorers शामिल ब्रेंडन the नाविक, रॉबर्ट mcclure, अर्नेस्ट shackleton और tom Crean.
By some accounts, the first European child born in North अमेरिका था आयरिश descent on दोनो पहलू ; और an irishman थी the पहला यूरोपीय to नियत पैर on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There are descendants of Irish people living in many western देशों, विशेषकर in english-speaking देशों.
Historically, emigration रै महरूम caused by राजनीती, अकाल और आर्थिक issues.
An estimated 50 to 80 million people हैं वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों, primarily in the संयुक्त किंगडम, the संयुक्त राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा और आइसलैंड ; there are also smaller numbers in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Jamaica, Barbados, South Africa, New Zealand, France, Germany and Brazil.
the largest क्रमांक of वंशजों of आयरिश people live in the United States.
The number of people living in Australia who are of Irish descent is उच्चतर, as a प्रतिशत of कुल जनसांख्यिकी, than कि of कोई other country.
Approximately forty percent of the उपनिवेश जनसांख्यिकी of आइसलैंड आए इससे आयरलैंड or स्कॉटलैंड.
the बहुत पहला निवासियों of Iceland were Irish.
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that was carried into कक्षा by a स्पेस शटल in 1990 और remains in आपरेशन.
A aperture telescope in low Earth orbit, Hubble 's चार प्रमुख यंत्र observe in the निकट पराबैंगनी, दृश्य, and near infrared.
The दूरदर्शी is नामित बाद the astronomer एडविन Hubble.
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's atmosphere allows it to लो अत्यधिक शार्प बिंब साथ लगभग no पृष्ठभूमि light.
Hubble 's Deep Field have been some of the most detailed visible-light बिंब कभी, allowing a गहन दृश्य into space and time.
Many Hubble observations have led to सफलताएँ in astrophysics, ऐसे as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe.
हालांकि नहीं the पहला स्पेस दूरदर्शी, हबल is एक of the largest और सबसे बहुमुखी, और is खूब ज्ञात as दोनो a vital research tool and a public relations boon for astronomy.
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA, with योगदान इससे the यूरोपीय स्पेस एजेंसी, और is संचालित by the स्पेस दूरदर्शी विज्ञान Institute.
The HST is one of NASA 's ग्रेट observatories, साथ साथ the कॉम्पटन गामा रे वेधशाला, the चन्द्रा X-ray Observatory, and the Spitzer Space Telescope.
Space telescopes यहूद प्रस्तावित as जल्दी as 1923.
Hubble was funded in the 1970s, साथ a प्रस्तावित लॉन्च in 1983, लकिन the प्रोजेक्ट थी घिरा by तकनीकी देरी, बजट समस्याएं, and the Challenger disaster.
When finally launched in 1990, वैज्ञानिकों मिला कि the प्रमुख दर्पण था महरूम मैदान incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's capabilities.
The दूरदर्शी थी लौटी to इसके intended quality by a servicing mission in 1993.
Hubble is the तभी दूरदर्शी designed to be सर्विस in स्पेस by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four missions repaired, upgraded, and replaced प्रणालियों on the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां मिशन थी रद्द on सुरक्षा grounds following the कोलंबिया disaster.
However, after spirited public discussion, NASA administrator Mike Griffin स्वीकृत एक फाइनल सर्विसिंग मिशन, समाप्त in 2009 by स्पेस शटल Atlantis.
The telescope is now अपेक्षित to फलन जबतक at तनिक 2013.
Its वैज्ञानिक successor, the जेम्स webb स्पेस दूरदर्शी ( jwst ), is to be शुभारम्भ in 2018 or possibly later.
anti-inflammatory refers to the प्रॉपर्टी of a पदार्थ or उपचार that reduces inflammation.
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up about half of analgesics, remedying पीड़ा by reducing सूजन as opposed to opioids, which affect the central nervous system.
The Tonight Show is a us late-night बात दिखाएँ कि रै aired on NBC since 1954.
It is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment कार्यक्रम in the us और the तीसरा longest-running दिखाएँ on एनबीसी बाद मिलें the Press and Today.
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ), Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny Carson ( 1962–1992 ), jay लीनो ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), और Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ).
Several guest hosts also appeared, विशेषकर दौरान the paar और Carson eras.
The longest-serving host to date थी जॉनी कार्सन, जो hosted the tonight दिखाएँ अभिनीत जॉनी कार्सन for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The current host of the दिखाएँ is jay लीनो, जो था previously hosted the दिखाएँ इससे 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1, 2010.
On April 3, 2013, एनबीसी घोषित jimmy fallon होता become the नई मेजबान of The Tonight Show.
The Tonight Show with jimmy fallon होगा प्रीमियर फ़रवरी 24, 2014, the दिन बाद the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics.
SS एंड्रिया डोरिया.
Pronounced was an ocean लाइनर लिये the इतालवी लकीर ( società di navigazione इटालिया ) घर ported in जेनोआ, इटली, सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके डूब in 1956, जब 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ).
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral एंड्रिया डोरिया, the जलयान था a सकल पंजीकरण tonnage of 29,100 और a क्षमता of परिचय 1,200 passengers and 500 crew.
For a country attempting to rebuild its economy and reputation after संसार युद्ध ii, एंड्रिया डोरिया थी an प्रतीक of इतालवी national pride.
Of all Italy 's जहाजों at the समय, एंड्रिया डोरिया थी the largest, तीव्रतम and supposedly safest.
Launched on 16 June 1951, the जलयान undertook इसके maiden voyage on 14 जनवरी 1953.
On 25 जुलाई 1956, जबकि the एंड्रिया डोरिया थी approaching the coast of nantucket, मैसाचुसेट्स, बंधी लिये नई यॉर्क नगर, the eastbound of the स्वीडिश अमरीकी लकीर collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters.
Struck in the side, the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately started to list severely to स्टारबोर्ड, जिससे बाएँ हाफ of इसके lifeboats अनुपयोगी.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant घाटा of जीवन, लकिन the दक्षता of the जलयान 's तकनीकी डिज़ाइन अनुमत it to रहो afloat लिये over 11 घंटों बाद the ramming.
The good behavior of the crew, improvements in संचार और the रैपिड जवाब of अन्य जहाजों averted a विपत्ति समान in स्केल to that of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and बच, जबकि 46 लोगों died as a consequence of the collision.
The evacuated luxury liner capsized और sank the following morning.
This दुर्घटना remains the worst मेरीटाइम विपत्ति to occur in संयुक्त राज्य waters since the sinking of the in 1915.
The घटना और इसके aftermath were heavily covered by the news media.
While the rescue efforts were both successful and commendable, the cause of the collision with the स्टॉकहोम और the घाटा of एंड्रिया डोरिया उत्पन्न much ब्याज in the मीडिया और अनेक lawsuits.
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between the two शिपिंग कंपनियाँ दौरान hearings तत्काल बाद the विपत्ति, no determination of the कारण ( s ) थी कभी formally published.
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the Italian लाइनर, अधिक हाल discoveries have indicated कि a misreading of रडार on the स्वीडिश जलयान may have initiated the टक्कर कोर्स, अग्रणी to त्रुटियाँ on both ships.
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic यात्री पोत to डूबना पहले वायुयान became the पसन्दीदा method of travel.
डायलिसिस tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of सेमi- or partially permeable झिल्ली tubing बना इससे regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be used for diffusion साथ solutes or परासरण if प्रयुक्त with water only.
Osmosis is when water गुजरता through a semi-permeable परत to पहुँचें संतुलन.
Diffusion, on the other hand, allows the गति of अणुओं इससे ऊँची विशेषज्ञता to कम विशेषज्ञता.
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable membrane or layer if the अणु is छोटी पर्याप्त to अनुरूप through the झिल्ली or a झिल्ली 's pore.
This प्रायः परिणाम साथ the प्रभाव of diffusion through a झिल्ली तभी वाकई affects छोटी molecules, and almost never larger molecules.
Dialysis tubing is used in clinical हालातों to ensure a filtered प्रवाह of अणुओं, preventing the प्रवाह of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` washed '' out of a समाधान जिससे is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a solvent, प्रायः जल, जिससे surrounds it और in जिससे वे can be flushed away.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable झिल्लियों, a समाधान containing अनेक प्रकार of अणुओं, प्रायः ग्लूकोज और मंड, is लगाई into a semi-permeable dialysis bag, such as a cellulose membrane with pores, and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band.
The sealed डायलिसिस थैला is लगाई in a संग्राहक of a अलग solution, or water.
Molecules छोटी पर्याप्त to pass through the tubing ( जल, लवण, monosaccharides, और other small molecules ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the direction of decreasing concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
Larger अणुओं ( ऐसे as प्रोटीन, or polysaccharides ) कि have आयाम significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag.
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) will cross a semi-permeable झिल्ली, जैसे डायलिसिस tubing, into a hypertonic समाधान ( a समाधान कि रै a उच्चतर solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) in an attempt to reach equilibrium, where the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium.
पारा प्रयोगशाला थर्मामीटर
A thermometer ( from the Greek, thermos, meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον, metron, `` माप '' ) is a यंत्र कि उपायों तापमान or तापमान अनुपात using a variety of different principles.
a थर्मामीटर रै दो महत्वपूर्ण तत्व : the तापमान सेंसर ( e.g. the बल्ब on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे कुछ शारीरिक बदलें occurs साथ तापमान, plus some means of converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g. the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ).
There are many types and many uses लिये thermometers, as विस्तृत नीचे in भाग of इस आलेख.
Snow White और the सात dwarfs is a 1937 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी और released by rko रेडियो तस्वीरें.
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm, it is the पहला full-length cel एनिमेटेड विशेषता फिल्मी and the earliest in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series.
The story was adapted by storyboard artists डोरोथी ऐन रिक्त, रिचर्ड creedon, मेरिल de मारिस, ओटो englander, अर्ल hurd, लंड rickard, टेड Sears and Webb Smith.
David Hand was the supervising director, while विलियम cottrell, विल्फ्रेड जैक्सन, लैरी morey, perce pearce, और बेन sharpsteen निर्देशित the फिल्मी 's व्यक्तिगत sequences.
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937, followed by a देशभर रिलीज on फ़रवरी 4, 1938, और साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय आय of $ 8 लाख दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज briefly assumed the रिकार्ड of उच्चतम grossing sound film at the time.
the लोकप्रियता of the फिल्मी रै led to it होने re-released theatrically अनेक टाइम्स, जबतक its home video release in the 1990s.
Adjusted for महंगाई, it is एक of the शीर्ष टेन performers at the उत्तर अमरीकी box office.
At the 11th Academy Awards, Walt डिज़्नी थी awarded an मानद ऑस्कर, और the फिल्मी थी मनोनीत for Best Musical Score.
It was added to the United States National Film रजिस्ट्री in 1989 और is क्रमित in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's सूची of the 100 महानतम अमरीकी films, जो भी नामित the फिल्मी as the महानतम अमरीकी animated film of all time in 2008.
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big सांस्कृतिक प्रभाव, resulting in a लोकप्रिय थीम पार्क attraction, a video game, and a Broadway musical.
Childbirth, labour, delivery, birth, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a गर्भावस्था काल साथ the expulsion of एक or अधिक नवजात infants from a woman 's uterus.
The process of सामान्य प्रसव is categorized in तीन चरण of श्रमिक : the shortening और dilation of the cervix, descent and birth of the infant, and birth of the placenta.
In many cases and with increasing frequency, प्रसव is हासिल through प्रेरण of मजदूर or caesarean खण्ड, जिससे is the हटाना of the neonate through a surgical incision in the abdomen, rather than through vaginal birth.
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the u.S. इससे 1996 to 2006, और comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada.
With respect to induced मजदूर, अधिक than 22 % of महिलाओं undergo induction of labour in the United States.
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be harmful to the fetus and neonate as well as नुकसानदेह or बगैर लाभ to the माँ, और have स्थापित सख्त दिशानिर्देश लिये non-medically indicated induced births और elective cesarean पहले 39 weeks.
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed Bam Margera and his crew as they undertook चुनौतियां, performed स्टंट और traveled the संसार.
the दिखाएँ भागा लिये 5 सीज़न between 2003 and 2005.
flushed दूर is a 2006 british/american कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड action / adventure comedy film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell.
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations and DreamWorks Animation, and is aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated विशेषता as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The film stars the आवाज़ talents of ह्यूज जैकमैन, केट विंसलेट, एंडी serkis, विधेयक nighy, इयान McKellen, Shane Richie and Jean Reno.
The story was by Sam Fell, Peter Lord, Dick Clement, and Ian La Frenais, and the पटकथा थी लिखा by लंड सहनशील, इयान la frenais, Christopher Lloyd, Joe Keenan, and William Davies.
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006, and in UK on December 1 2006, and was distributed by Paramount Pictures, मगर लिये स्विट्ज़रलैंड, स्पेन, और the नीदरलैंड्स, जिससे यहूद संभाला by सार्वभौमिक Pictures.
The Atlanta Braves are a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in अटलांटा.
The Braves are a सदस्य of the पूर्वी प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's National League.
The Braves have निभाई in टर्नर फ़ील्ड since 1997.
The `` Braves '' name, which was first प्रयुक्त in 1912, originates इससे a पद लिये a देशी American warrior.
They are nicknamed `` the Bravos '', and often referred to as `` America 's Team `` in सन्दर्भ to the टोली 's खेल होने ब्रॉडकास्ट on the nationally उपलब्धियाँ tbs इससे the 1970s जबतक 2007, gaining a चौड़ी fanbase.
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball, winning division titles an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स in कि काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 ऋतु in जिससे वहीँ यहूद no आधिकारिक प्रभाग champions ).
The Braves won the nl वेस्ट 1991–93 और the nl ईस्ट 1995–2005, और लौटे to the playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010.
The Braves advanced to the संसार श्रेणी पाँच टाइम्स in the 1990s, जीतना the शीर्षक in 1995.
Since their debut in the National League in 1876, the franchise has won 16 divisional शीर्षक, 17 नेशनल लीग pennants, as खूब as तीन संसार श्रेणी championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves, and in 1995 in Atlanta.
The Braves are the only एमएलबी मताधिकार to have जीती the संसार श्रेणी in तीन अलग घर शहरों.
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the अन्य होने the शिकागो शावक ) और थी संस्थापित in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, in 1871 as the बोस्टन रेड stockings ( not to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ).
They are considered `` the oldest लगातार playing टोली in प्रमुख North American sports. ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because although the Cubs are a पूरा ऋतु `` पुरानी '' ( formed as the शिकागो श्वेत stockings in 1870 ) शिकागो lost two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire, thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons.
बाद विभिन्न नाम परिवर्तन ( ऐसे as the बोस्टन beaneaters ), the टोली संचालित as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century.
In 1953, the team moved to मिल्वौकी, विस्कॉन्सिन और became the मिल्वौकी braves, followed by the move to Atlanta in 1966.
The team 's कार्यकाल in अटलांटा is प्रसिद्ध लिये हांक आरोन तोड़कर बेब रुथ 's करियर घर run record in 1974, though the majority of Aaron 's home runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee.
His record stood जबतक 2007, जब सैन फ्रांसिस्को बाएँ क्षेत्ररक्षक Barry Bonds broke the record.
the पत्ते of a Beech tree
3D rendering of a μct स्कैन of a पत्ता टुकड़ा, रेज़ोल्यूशन circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A leaf is an organ of a vascular संयंत्र, as पारिभाषित in वनस्पति शर्तें, और in particular in plant morphology.
Foliage is a mass संज्ञा कि refers to पत्ते as a feature of plants.
Typically a leaf is a thin, flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis, but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those शर्तें : कुछ हैं नहीं चपटा ( लिये उदाहरण अनेक रसीले पत्ते और conifers ), कुछ हैं नहीं ऊपर मैदान ( ऐसे as बल्ब तराजू ), और कुछ हैं बगैर प्रमुख photosynthetic फलन ( consider लिये उदाहरण cataphylls, कांटे, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, many structures of non-vascular plants, or भी of कुछ lichens, जिससे हैं नहीं पौधे at सब ( in the भाव of होने सदस्यों of the किंगडम plantae ), do look and function much like leaves.
Furthermore, several structures found in vascular पौधे dekh जैसे पत्ते लकिन हैं नहीं दरअसल पत्ते ; वे differ इससे पत्ते in उनके structures and origins.
Examples include phyllodes, cladodes, और phylloclades.
Title card for the 1937 हमारी गिरोह कॉमेडी rushin ' बैले.
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of अमरीकी कॉमेडी छोटी films परिचय a समूह of ग़रीब पड़ोस children और उनके adventures.
Created by कॉमेडी निर्माता एचएएल रोच, the श्रेणी is विख्यात लिये प्रर्दशित children behaving in a अपेक्षाकृत प्राकृतिक रास्ता, as रोच और असली निदेशक रॉबर्ट F. mcgowan worked to film the unaffected, raw nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles.
In addition, Our Gang notably put boys, girls, whites and blacks together in a group as equals, कुछ कि `` broke नई मैदान, '' according to फिल्मी इतिहासकार लियोनार्ड Maltin.
Such a thing had never been done पहले in सिनेमा लकिन रै चूंकि महरूम दोहराया बाद the कामयाबी of Our Gang.
The first production at the रोच स्टुडियो in 1922 थी a श्रेणी of मूक short subjects.
When Roach changed वितरकों इससे pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927, और परिवर्तित the series to sound in 1929, the series took off even further.
Production continued at the Roach studio until 1938, जब the श्रेणी थी बेची to mgm, जो तब जारी producing the comedies until 1944.
The Our Gang series includes a कुल of 220 शॉर्ट्स और एक विशेषता फिल्मी, सामान्य spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As MGM retained the अधिकारों to the हमारी गिरोह ट्रेडमार्क following उनके खरीदें of the उत्पादन अधिकारों, the 80 roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' यहूद syndicated लिये टेलीविज़न अंतर्गत the शीर्षक the छोटी दुष्टों beginning in 1955.
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package ( now owned by warner भाईs. entertainment ) have चूंकि remained in अनुप्रयोग, साथ आवधिक नई प्रोडक्शन्स आधारित on the शॉर्ट्स surfacing over the सालो, सहित a 1994 छोटी दुष्टों विशेषता फिल्मी released by Universal Pictures.
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias Jansen or Sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) थी a डच spectacle-maker इससे middelburg संबद्ध साथ the आविष्कार of the पहला ऑप्टिकल दूरदर्शी.
Janssen is sometimes भी credited लिये inventing the first truly compound microscope.
However, the origin of the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, बस जैसे the उत्पत्ति of the दूरदर्शी, is a पदार्थ of debate.
Lake tahoe ( ; washo : dáʔaw ) is a विशाल freshwater झील in the Sierra Nevada of the United States.
At a surface elevation of, it is स्तिथ साथ the किनारा between कैलिफ़ोर्निया और नेवाडा, west of Carson City.
Lake tahoe is the largest अल्पाइन झील in North America.
Its depth is, making it the संयुक्त राज्य 's second-deepest ( the deepest is crater झील in Oregon, being deeper, at ).
Additionally, Lake Tahoe is listed as the 26th largest झील by आवाज़ in the world at.
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a भाग of the झील tahoe जलाशय साथ the आधुनिक झील होने तराशा दौरान the बर्फ ages.
It is known for the clarity of इसके जल और the परिदृश्य of surrounding mountains on all sides.
the क्षेत्रफल surrounding the झील is भी referred to as Lake Tahoe, or simply Tahoe.
Lake Tahoe is a प्रमुख पर्यटक आकर्षण in दोनो Nevada and California.
It is घर to a क्रमांक of स्की रिसॉर्ट, गर्मियाँ बाहरी recreation, and tourist attractions.
Snow and skiing are a significant भाग of the क्षेत्रफल 's अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रतिष्ठा.
पहाड़ और झील नजारा हैं आकर्षण throughout the year.
The Nevada पक्ष भी शामिल विशाल कसीनो.
Highways provide year-round अभिगम इससे रेनो, कार्सन नगर, और sacramento.
पेज 1 of the twenty-seventh amendment 's प्रमाणन in the National Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
Page 3 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law कि increases or decreases the सैलरी of सदस्यों of the कॉंग्रेस इससे लेने प्रभाव जबतक the प्रारंभ of the अगला set of terms of office for Representatives.
It is the most recent amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
It was सुपुर्द to the राज्य लिये अनुसमर्थन in 1789 and was adopted in 1992.
“First they came... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to पादरी मार्टिन niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) परिचय the सुस्ती of जर्मनी intellectuals following the nazis ' वृद्धि to शक्ति और the subsequent purging of उनके चुनी लक्ष्य, समूह after group.
There is some disagreement over the सटीक wording of the quotation और जब it थी निर्मित ; the सामग्री of the quotation may have महरूम प्रस्तुत differently by niemöller on अलग occasions.
This list of islands by area शामिल सब आइलैंड्स in the संसार वृहद than 2,500 km2 ( ) और अनेक अन्य आइलैंड्स over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending order by area.
For तुलना, महाद्वीपों हैं भी shown.
Four तिहाई लोगो
The Four Thirds system is a standard created by Olympus and Kodak for digital single-lens reflex कैमरा ( dslr ) डिज़ाइन और development. < संदर्भ name='dpreview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that, with digital कैमरे और lenses उपलब्धियाँ इससे अनेक निर्माताओं, allows लिये the इंटरचेंज of lenses और लाशें इससे अलग निर्माताओं.
seems to cover the मानक.
Proponents describe it as an open standard, लकिन कंपनियाँ may तभी उपयोग it अंतर्गत a non-disclosure agreement.
Unlike older SLR systems, Four Thirds रै महरूम designed इससे the मैदान up to be entirely digital.
Many lenses हैं extensively computerized, to the पाइंट कि Olympus offers firmware updates for many of them.
Lens design has been tailored to the आवश्यकताएँ of डिजिटल सेंसर, सबसे notably through telecentric designs.
The size of the sensor is significantly छोटी than लिये सबसे dslrs और इस implies कि lenses, विशेषकर telephoto lenses, can be smaller.
For example, a चार तिहाई लेंस साथ a 300 mm फोकल लंबाई होता कवर परिचय the वही कोण of दृश्य as a 600 mm फोकल length lens for the 35 mm film standard, and is correspondingly more compact.
Thus, the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2, और जबकि इस enables longer फोकल लंबाई लिये वृहद आवर्धन, it करता n't सहायता the manufacture of चौड़ी कोण lenses.
The image sensor format, generally इंटरमीडिएट between those of larger slrs और छोटी कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे, generally देता स्तर of लागत, प्रदर्शन और convenience intermediate between those two classes.
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts संस्थापित throughout a भवन to सप्लाई conditioned एयर to a रूम through आउटलेट vents, पुकारा diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles.
hvac ( हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन, और एयर कंडीशनिंग ) is the technology of indoor and automotive environmental comfort.
HVAC system design is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, based on the सिद्धान्त of ऊष्मागतिकी, द्रव यांत्रिकी, और ऊष्मा transfer.
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as hvac & r or hvacr, or ventilating is dropped as in hacr ( ऐसे as the नामांकन of hacr-rated सर्किट ब्रेकर्स ).
HVAC is important in the design of मीडियम to विशाल औद्योगिक और दफ्तर इमारतें ऐसे as skyscrapers और in समुद्री environments ऐसे as एक्वैरियम, जहाँ सुरक्षित और स्वस्थ भवन शर्तें हैं regulated with respect to temperature and humidity, using fresh air from outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught प्रणाली, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning is based on inventions and discoveries बना by निकोलय lvov, माइकल फैराडे, विलिस वाहक, reuben trane, जेम्स जूल, विलियम Rankine, Sadi Carnot, and many others.
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial क्रान्ति, और नई विधि of modernization, उच्चतर दक्षता, और system control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide.
The three central functions of heating, ventilating, और air-conditioning हैं interrelated, विशेषकर साथ the need to provide थर्मल सुकून और स्वीकार्य अंदर एयर विशेषता भीतर reasonable installation, operation, and maintenance costs.
HVAC systems can provide वेंटिलेशन, reduce एयर घुसपैठ, and maintain pressure relationships between spaces.
The means of air डिलीवरी और हटाना इससे स्पेसेस is ज्ञात as room air distribution.
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both for कूलिंग और हीटिंग depends on the exterior जलवायु और आंतरिक निर्दिष्ट शर्तें.
However before taking up the heat load गणना, it is जरुरी to ढूँढें भैस एयर आवश्यकताएँ लिये प्रत्येक क्षेत्रफल in विवरण, as pressurization is an महत्वपूर्ण consideration.
In आधुनिक इमारतें the डिज़ाइन, संस्थापना, और कंट्रोल प्रणालियों of ये functions are integrated into one or more HVAC systems.
For very small buildings, ठेकेदारों सामान्यतः क्षमता इंजीनियर और चुनें HVAC systems and equipment.
For larger buildings, building services designers and engineers, such as mechanical, architectural, or भवन सेवाएं इंजीनियर्स analyze, डिज़ाइन, और बताएँ the hvac प्रणालियों, और specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them.
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the संस्थापना हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी लिये सब आकार of इमारतें.
The hvac उद्योग is a विश्वव्यापी एंटरप्राइज़, साथ भूमिकाएँ सहित आपरेशन और मेंटेनेंस, प्रणाली डिज़ाइन और निर्माण, equipment manufacturing and sales, and in education and research.
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the निर्माताओं of hvac उपकरण, लकिन regulating और मानकों संगठन ऐसे as hardi, ashrae, smacna, एसीसीए, वर्दी mechanical कोड, अंतरराष्ट्रीय mechanical कोड, और AMCA have been established to support the industry and encourage high standards and achievement.
Royal Navy Commander James Bond, cmg, rnvr, is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित by अंग्रेजों पत्रकार and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
He is the समर्थक of the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी of novels, films, comics and video games.
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two छोटी स्टोरी संग्रहण पहले उसके मौत, हालांकि the पिछला दो books— the man साथ the सुनहरी गन और octopussy और the जीना daylights —were published posthumously.
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent, कोड क्रमांक 007, residing in लंदन लकिन क्रियाशील internationally.
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew during his service in the Naval Intelligence Division during World War II, to whom फ्लेमिंग added उसके अपना स्टाइल और a क्रमांक of उसके अपना tastes ; बंध 's नाम थी appropriated इससे अमरीकी ornithologist James Bond.
Bond has a number of character traits जिससे चलाएं throughout the किताबे, सहित an enjoyment of cars, a love of food and drink, and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day.
Since Fleming 's death in 1964, वहीँ have महरूम अन्य authorised लेखक of बंध सामग्री, सहित जॉन गार्डनर, जो लिखा चौदह novels and two novelizations and Raymond Benson, who wrote six novels, three novelizations and three short stories.
There have also been three authors who लिखा एक किताब प्रत्येक, किंग्सले एमिस ( लिखने as रॉबर्ट markham ), सेबेस्टियन faulks और jeffery Deaver.
Additionally a series of novels आधारित on बंध 's youth— यंग बंध —was लिखा by चार्ली higson.
As spin-offs इससे the साहित्यिक works, वहीँ थी a टेलीविज़न अनुकूलन of the first novel, Casino Royale, in which Bond was played as an American agent.
A comic स्ट्रिप श्रेणी भी भागा in the रोज़ Express newspaper.
There have भी महरूम twenty-five बंध films ; सात अभिनेताओं have played Bond in these films.
`` प्रकृति लड़के '' is a सोंग by ईडन ahbez, published in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy... who wandered very दूर '' तभी to सीख कि `` the महानतम बात... थी बस to प्रेम और be loved in वापसी ''.
Nat King Cole 's 1948 रिकॉर्डिंग of the सोंग थी a प्रमुख hit और `` प्रकृति लड़के '' रै चूंकि become a पॉप और जैज़ मानक, साथ dozens of major artists interpreting the song.
Louisiana ( or ;, ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in the दक्षिणी प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
louisiana is the 31st सबसे extensive और the 25th सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
Its capital is Baton रूज और largest नगर is नई ऑरलियन्स.
Louisiana is the only state in the U.S. साथ राजनैतिक subdivisions termed parishes, जिससे हैं लोकल सरकारी 's equivalent to counties.
The largest मोहल्ला by जनसांख्यिकी is ईस्ट baton रूज मोहल्ला, और the largest by land area is Cameron Parish.
Much of the state 's lands were formed from sediment धोया bas the मिसिसिपी नदी, leaving विशाल deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp.
These contain a समृद्ध दक्षिणी biota ; ठेठ उदाहरण शामिल birds such as ibis and egrets.
There are also many species of पेड़ मेंढक, और मछली ऐसे as sturgeon and paddlefish.
In more elevated areas, आग is a प्राकृतिक प्रक्रम in the लैंडस्केप, और रै उत्पादित extensive क्षेत्रों of longleaf पाइन forest and wet savannas.
These support an exceptional विशाल क्रमांक of संयंत्र प्रजाति, सहित अनेक प्रजाति of orchids and carnivorous plants.
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural, multilingual heritage, होने so strongly बहकावे by an जिसमें of 18th-century फ्रेंच, स्पेनी, देशी अमरीकी ( भारतीय ) और African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
Before the अमरीकी खरीदें of the territory, the वर्तमान louisiana राज्य था महरूम both a Spanish and French colony.
In addition, the pattern of development included importing numerous अफ़्रीकी स्लेव in the 18th सदी, साथ अनेक इससे the वही प्रदेश of वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी, यूँ concentrating their culture.
In the post-Civil War environment, Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for Anglicization, और in 1915, अंग्रेज़ी थी बना the तभी आधिकारिक भाषा of the state.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों of अनेक समाजों worldwide.
In some स्थान ये अधिकारों हैं institutionalized or समर्थित by विधि, लोकल कस्टम, और आचरण, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the कसरत of अधिकारों by महिलाओं और लड़कियों in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with धारणाएं of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों शामिल, हालांकि हैं नहीं सीमित to, the सही : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
the कानून of विज्ञान or वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं कथन कि describe, भविष्यवाणी, और शायद बताइये why, a range of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature.
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate, accurate, broad or सीमित theories, in सब प्राकृतिक वैज्ञानिक disciplines ( भौतिकी, रसायन, जीवविज्ञान, भूविज्ञान, खगोलशास्त्र etc. ).
An analogous पद लिये a वैज्ञानिक law is a principle.
वैज्ञानिक विधिs:
summarize a large collection of facts संकल्पित by प्रयोग into a सिंगल statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation, or at least stated in a single sentence, so that it can be used to predict the निष्कर्ष of an प्रयोग, दिए the आरंभिक, boundary, और अन्य शारीरिक शर्तें of the प्रक्रियाओं जिससे लो place,
हैं strongly समर्थित by अनुभवजन्य प्रमाण - वे हैं वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान कि प्रयोग have repeatedly verified ( and never falsified ).
Their सटीकता करता नहीं बदलें जब नई theories हैं worked आउट, लकिन बल्कि the पैमाना of अनुप्रयोग, चूंकि the equation ( if any ) representing the law does not change.
As with other scientific knowledge, वे do नहीं have निरपेक्ष certainty जैसे गणितीय theorems or पहचान, और it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations.
are often quoted as a आधारभूत controlling influence बल्कि than a वर्णन of observed facts.
I.e. `` the कानून of गति आवश्यकता that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates, जिससे हैं प्रस्तावित दौरान the वैज्ञानिक प्रक्रम पहले और दौरान validation by experiment and observation.
These are not laws since they have नहीं महरूम सत्यापित to the वही उपाधि और may नहीं be fear सामान्य, हालांकि वे may सीसे to the formulation of laws.
A law is a अधिक solidified और औपचारिक बयान, आसुत इससे दोहराया experiment.
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy, and presents the depth to which गणित can describe प्रकृति, वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं माना इससे a वैज्ञानिक परिप्रेक्ष्य और follow the वैज्ञानिक विधि ; वे `` serve उनके purpose '' बल्कि than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For उदाहरण, whether a विधि `` refers to वास्तविकता '' is a philosophical issue, rather than scientific.
Fundamentally, all scientific laws follow इससे भौतिकी, कानून जिससे occur in अन्य sciences ultimately follow इससे शारीरिक laws.
Often, from mathematically आधारभूत viewpoints, सार्वभौमिक स्थिरांक emerge इससे वैज्ञानिक laws.
The लॉन्च of the प्लेस्टेशन 3 into the जापानी मार्केट on 10 नवम्बर 2006 चिह्नित the दूसरी प्रमुख सातवाँ generation entertainment system to be released.
the प्रणाली थी released सात दिनों बाद on 17 नवम्बर in the United States.
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी ; the यंत्र थी शुभारम्भ in यूरोपीय और अन्य संसार बाज़ार in the पहला half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly विलियम्स और grainger ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the सीबीएस साबुन operas the यंग और the बेचैन and The Bold and the Beautiful, portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman.
वो बना उसके डेब्यू दौरान the एपीसोड airing on January 21, 1983.
In 1992, Bregman began making sporadic दिखावे on the बिंदास और the खूबसूरत, बाद resulting in the अक्षर migrating वहीँ fully in 1995.
following a अतिथि रूप in 2000, bregman लौटे to the यंग और the बेचैन on August 24, 2001, remaining on recurring status.
In 2013, it was announced that bregman था महरूम लगाई on अनुबंध.
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams, स्कॉट grainger, sr., और माइकल baldwin among अनेक अन्य causing a fierce फंसने साथ traci Abbott Connolly.
Lauren is भी प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके long, हिंसक फंसने साथ शीला Carter.
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ) चैंपियनशिप series for the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff थी लडे between the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स, champions of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन और defending एनबीए champions, and the Boston Celtics, champions of the Eastern Conference.
The Lakers पराजित the सेल्टिक्स, चार खेल to तीन, to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th संस्करण of the चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी थी निभाई between जून 3 और जून 17, was broadcast on ABC, and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people.
The सेल्टिक्स अर्जित उनके berth into the playoffs by जीतना the Atlantic Division.
The लेकर्स जीती the प्रशांत प्रभाग to earn their berth.
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the मियामी ऊष्मा in the best-of-seven पूर्वी सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार, the क्लीवलैंड cavaliers in the best-of-seven पूर्वी सम्मेलन semifinals, and defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals.
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार, the यूटा जैज़ in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन semifinals, और the फीनिक्स Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals.
The NBA Finals were अनुसूचित in the प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल संसार श्रेणी 2–3–2 सात खेल स्वरूप, साथ the लेकर्स possessing home-court advantage as a reward for finishing with better regular season record than the Celtics.
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant, Pau Gasol, और रॉन artest brought the लेकर्स बंद to विजय in खेल 1.
A record breaking प्रदर्शन इससे रे एलन 's आठ three-point baskets ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 अंक in the चौथी क्वार्टर helped the लेकर्स win Game 3.
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent प्रदर्शन in baskets by the team’s reserves, जबकि पॉल पियर्स led the टोली to a खेल 5 जीत साथ 27 अंक on 57 % शूटिंग इससे the floor.
The Lakers avoided विलोपन by जीतना a निर्णायक खेल 6 साथ 24 अंक contributed by their bench.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter, the Lakers rallied and जीती उनके दूसरी लगातार चैंपियनशिप by लेने over an रोमांचक खेल 7 aided by लेट योगदान on ठोकर by pau gasol and Artest and rebounding.
Bryant was named Most Valuable खिलाड़ी of the फाइनल लिये उसके दूसरी लगातार trophy.
This was the first एनबीए फाइनल to go the पूरा सात खेल चूंकि और तभी the चौथी चूंकि the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in.
The laker मताधिकार रै 16 एनबीए championships ( पाँच in मिनियापोलिस, 11 in लॉस एंजिल्स ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships.
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 मिनियापोलिस लेकर्स पराजित the वॉशिंगटन capitols 4 खेल to 2 ; in 1953 मिनियापोलिस पराजित the नई York Knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 Minneapolis defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3.
The NBA would return to the 2–2–1–1–1 National हॉकी लीग सात खेल श्रेणी स्वरूप जबतक 1985.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the परिवार piperaceae, cultivated लिये इसके फल, जिससे is प्रायः सूखी और प्रयुक्त as a मसाला and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is approximately in diameter, dark red जब fully वयस्क, और, जैसे सब drupes, contains a सिंगल बीज.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be वर्णित बस as pepper, or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( पकाया और सूखी unripe फल ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in तीव्र regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest निर्माता और निर्यातक of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's पाइपर nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried मैदान pepper रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता लिये दोनो its flavour and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the संसार 's सबसे traded मसाला.
It is one of the most common मसाले added to यूरोपीय भोजन और इसके वंशजों.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be confused with the capsaicin कि देता मांसल मिर्च theirs.
It is in the आधुनिक संसार, प्रायः युग्म with salt.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the आयतनी भिन्न of रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle जिससे ejects via the aortic वाल्व into the प्रणालीगत circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian दिल is the आर्ट कि allows सार्थक गणितीय expression defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly और inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a गणितीय उत्पाद अनुमत by हृदय इमेजिंग.
As a mathematical term, ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य of एडाल्फ Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding ischemia, जन्मजात दिल बीमारी और दिल विफलता.
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of the prosecution in देशों साथ either the आम विधि adversarial प्रणाली, or the civil law inquisitorial system.
The prosecution is the विधिक पार्टी जिम्मेदार लिये पेश the मामला in a दण्ड विचारण against an individual accused of breaking the law.
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake सबसे commonly अर्थात् a मिठाई in the shortcake परिवार of cakes.
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake may also refer to:
Strawberry shortcake, a अक्षर और मताधिकार निर्मित by अमरीकी Greetings
The shortened शीर्षक of स्ट्रॉबेरी on the shortcake, a Japanese romance movie.
Abū al-Qāsim muḥammad इब्न ʿabd allāh इब्न ʿabd al-muṭṭalib इब्न hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), was a religious, political, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by मुसलमान और bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर and prophet of God.
Muhammad is लगभग universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी भेजा by God for mankind.
Non-Muslims regard मुहम्मद as the संस्थापक of islam.
मुसलमान consider उसे to be the restorer of an अनछुए असली monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was अनाथ at an जल्दी आयु और brought up अंतर्गत the परवाह of उसके ताऊ Abu Talib.
He later worked ज़्यादातर as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ, he बाद reported कि it थी वहीँ, at आयु 40, कि he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after this event मुहम्मद प्रारंभ उपदेश ये खुलासे सरेआम, proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक ``, कि पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the तभी रास्ता ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर, और कि he खुद थी a नबी और मेसेंजर of परमेश्वर, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and थी मिले साथ दुश्मनी इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता यहूद treated harshly.
To escape persecution, मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of उसके अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the शुरूआत of the इस्लामी पंचांग, जिससे is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In मदीना, मुहम्मद संयुक्त the जनजातियों अंतर्गत the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes, his अनुसरणकर्ता, जो by तब था grown to 10,000, took कंट्रोल of मक्का in the largely शांतिपूर्ण Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan मूर्तियों in the नगर और तब भेजा उसके अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few महीने बाद returning to मदीना इससे the विदाई यात्राएं, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to islam, और he था संयुक्त अरब into a सिंगल मुस्लिम धार्मिक polity.
The खुलासे ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of परमेश्वर ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving जबतक उसके मौत – रूप the आयतें of the कुरान, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, मुहम्मद 's जीवन ( सिरा ) और परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss मुहम्मद और अन्य नबियों of islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
जबकि conceptions of मुहम्मद in मध्यकालीन christendom और premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
The Great किताबे ( दूसरी संस्करण )
ग्रेट किताबे of the पश्चिमी संसार is a श्रेणी of किताबे originally प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त States in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes.
The series is now in इसके दूसरी संस्करण और contains 60 volumes.
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to समकालीन मुद्दे, और नहीं तभी महत्वपूर्ण in इसके ऐतिहासिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट ; it जरूर बदला rereading ; और it जरूर be a भाग of `` the ग्रेट वार्तालाप परिचय the great ideas, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors.
Books यहूद नहीं चुनी on the आधार of जातीय or सांस्कृतिक inclusiveness, ऐतिहासिक influence, or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a song written and recorded by jj cale in 1976, लकिन भी ज्ञात as a कवर संस्करण अंकित by eric क्लैप्टन.
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly लोकप्रिय हिट्स '' और टीप कि `` भी लिये an कलाकार जैसे क्लैप्टन साथ a विशाल देह of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best. ''
Glyn Johns, who had previously worked with The Who, Led Zeppelin और the रोलिंग पत्थरों, उत्पादित the क्लैप्टन रिकॉर्डिंग, जिससे थी released on क्लैप्टन 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
The सजीव संस्करण of `` कोका '', इससे the बस एक रात्रि एल्बम अंकित in टोकियो, charted on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 as the B-side of `` Tulsa Time ``, which was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
कोका '' थी एक of अनेक of cale 's गीतों अंकित by क्लैप्टन, सहित `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light ''.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of पर्ल हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी विरूद्ध the संयुक्त राज्य नवल आधार at पर्ल हार्बर, हवाई, on the morning of दिसम्बर 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त किंगडम, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese सेनानी, बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in दो लहरें, launched from six aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. नेवी battleships यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त, साथ चार होने sunk.
Two of these were later raised, and with the बाकी चार repaired, छह battleships लौटे to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. aircraft were नष्ट ; 2,402 अमेरिकी यहूद मारे और 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन ( भी घर of the प्रज्ञा खण्ड ) यहूद नहीं attacked.
जापानी नुकसान यहूद लाइट : 29 वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines खोया, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One जापानी नाविक थी captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the American लोगों और led सीधे to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into संसार युद्ध ii in दोनो the Pacific and European theaters.
The following दिन ( दिसम्बर 8 ), the संयुक्त राज्य घोषित युद्ध on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, जिससे था महरूम दमदार, disappeared.
clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( लिये उदाहरण the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance.
subsequent परिचालन by the u.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents लिये unannounced सैन्य action by Japan.
however, the कमी of कोई औपचारिक चेतावनी, विशेषकर जबकि negotiations यहूद स्टिल जाहिर जारी, led अध्यक्ष Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of ब्रावो 's कामयाब प्रोजेक्ट रनवे, a वास्तविकता प्रतियोगिता लिये फ़ैशन designers.
ऋतु 2 began airing on December 7, 2005.
Following a देशभर ढूंढें पहले in the साल, सोलह designers यहूद चुनी as semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June, 2005.
After the पहला चुनौती, पुकारा `` सड़क to the रनवे '', fourteen went on to compete as finalists.
The winning designer, Chloe Dao, received $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch her own लकीर, a 2007 शनि आसमान roadster, a स्प्रेड in elle पत्रिका, और a mentorship साथ the Banana Republic Design Team.
Winning alongside dao थी उसके मॉडल, अनुग्रह kelsey, जो received the ELLE Magazine spread.
Michael Kors and Nina Garcia लौटे as न्यायाधीशों लिये the दूसरी ऋतु.
the चौथी judging सीट rotated each week, based on the challenge.
Tim Gunn, fashion कुर्सी at पार्सन्स the नई स्कूल लिये डिज़ाइन, लौटे as a mentor for the designers.
Kara Janx later appeared in प्रोजेक्ट रनवे : सब सितारों in 2012, जहाँ वो समाप्त 7th out of 13.
Andrae Gonzalo, in the same year, competed in the दूसरी ऋतु of the सब सितारों संस्करण रखकर 10th आउट of 13.
An उदाहरण of a heraclius mule
In numismatics, a mule is a coin or medal minted with obverse और रिवर्स डिजाइन नहीं सामान्यतः देखी on the वही टुकड़ा.
These can be जानबूझकर or उत्पादित by error.
This type of error is अत्यधिक sought बाद, और उदाहरण can लाने steep prices from collectors.
The earliest mules हैं मिला among प्राचीन यूनानी and Roman coins.
Opinion is divided between those who think that वे हैं आकस्मिक, the परिणाम of an गलत संयोजन of a नई die साथ एक कि था officially महरूम withdrawn इससे उपयोग, or the कार्य of coiners working साथ मरता चुराया इससे an आधिकारिक मिंट, perhaps at a time when one of them should have been destroyed.
The name derives from the mule, the संकर औलाद of a घोड़ा और a गधा, due to ऐसे a सिक्का having दो पहलू intended लिये अलग सिक्के, much as a mule has parents of two different species.
इस पेज दस्तावेज़ the tornadoes and tornado outbreaks of 2010.
the बहुमत of tornadoes रूप in the u.S., लकिन वे can occur almost anywhere under the right conditions.
A lesser number occur outside the U.S., most notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada दौरान the उत्तरी गोलार्ध 's गर्मियाँ ऋतु, लकिन हैं भी known in South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2010 ( of जिससे at तनिक 1,266 यहूद पुष्टि ), with 45 confirmed fatalities.
Elsewhere in the world, 11 people were मारे in tornadoes, छह in अर्जेंटीना, तीन in the बहामा, एक in Bangladesh, and one in Germany.
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an अत्यधिक शांत जल्दी वसन्त काल, however ऐसे बदला बाद a विशाल upswing starting in लेट अप्रैल और a व्यस्त लेट spring and summer period.
The autumn महीने यहूद थोड़ा above average.
A lymphocyte is a type of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate immune system.
अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक कातिल cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं और B cells.
Windows PowerShell is microsoft 's कार्य स्वचालन फ्रेमवर्क, consisting of a command-line शेल और संबद्ध scripting language built on.NET Framework.
PowerShell provides full access to COM and WMI, enabling प्रशासकों to perform प्रशासनिक कार्य on दोनो local and remote Windows systems.
In PowerShell, administrative tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( सुनाया command-lets ), जिससे हैं specialized.neT वर्ग implementing a particular operation.
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in स्क्रिप्ट, executables ( जिससे हैं स्टैंडअलोन अनुप्रयोग ), or by instantiating regular.NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ).
These work by accessing आंकड़ा in अलग आंकड़ा स्टोर्स, जैसे the filesystem or रजिस्ट्री, जिससे हैं made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers.
Windows powershell भी provides a होस्टिंग api साथ जिससे the Windows PowerShell runtime can be embedded inside other applications.
These applications can then उपयोग खिड़कियाँ powershell कार्यक्षमता to implement निश्चित परिचालन, सहित those उजागर via the आलेखीय interface.
This capability has been used by microsoft एक्सचेंज सर्वर 2007 to expose इसके प्रबन्धन कार्यक्षमता as powershell cmdlets और प्रदाताओं और implement the आलेखीय प्रबन्धन tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets.
Other Microsoft applications including microsoft एसक्यूएल सर्वर 2008 भी expose उनके प्रबन्धन इंटरफ़ेस via PowerShell cmdlets.
With PowerShell, आलेखीय interface-based प्रबन्धन अनुप्रयोग on खिड़कियाँ हैं परतदार on top of Windows PowerShell.
A PowerShell scripting इंटरफ़ेस लिये खिड़कियाँ उत्पाद is mandated by the Common Engineering Criteria.
Windows PowerShell includes इसके अपना extensive, console-based सहायता, समान to man पृष्ठों in यूनिक्स शेल, via the Get-Help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring जूली एंड्रयूज, लंड वैन dyke, दाउद tomlinson, और glynis जॉन्स, उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी, और आधारित on the मरियम poppins किताबे series by P. L. Travers.
The film was directed by रॉबर्ट stevenson और लिखा by विधेयक वाल्श और डॉन dagradi, with songs by the Sherman Brothers.
it थी शॉट at वॉल्ट डिज़्नी studios in burbank, California.
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film संपादन, असली म्यूज़िक स्कोर, बेहतरीन सोंग लिये `` chim chim cher-ee '' और बेहतरीन विज़ुअल प्रभाव, और प्राप्त a कुल of 13 nominations.
A story arc is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling मीडिया ऐसे as टेलीविज़न, कॉमिक किताबे, कॉमिक स्ट्रिप्स, boardgames, video games, and in some cases, films.
On a television program, for example, the स्टोरी होता unfold over अनेक एपीसोड.
In टेलीविज़न, the उपयोग of the स्टोरी चाप is much अधिक आम in dramas than in comedies, especially in soap operas.
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than समाचारपत्र कॉमिक्स, as सबसे वेब कॉमिक्स have पठनीय अभिलेख ऑनलाइन कि a newcomer to the स्ट्रिप can पढ़ा in अनुक्रम to समझे कया is going on.
Although story arcs have existed for decades, the term `` story arc '' was coined in 1988 in संबंध to the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी wiseguy, और थी जल्दी adapted लिये अन्य उपयोग.
Many American comic book श्रेणी हैं अभी लिखा in चार or six-issue arcs, भीतर a continuing series.
छोटी स्टोरी arcs हैं easier to पैकेज as व्यापार paperbacks लिये पुनर्विक्रय, और अधिक accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised comics.
Black Friday is the day following थैंक्सगिविंग दिन in the संयुक्त राज्य, प्रायः regarded as the शुरूआत of the Christmas shopping season.
In recent years, most major रिटेलर have खोली अत्यधिक जल्दी और offered promotional बिक्री to लात बंद the अवकाश खरीदारी ऋतु, समान to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations.
Black Friday is not an official public अवकाश as ऐसे, लकिन अनेक non-retail कर्मचारी और स्कूलों have दोनो थैंक्सगिविंग और the दिन बाद बंद, followed by a वीकेंड, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year चूंकि 2005, हालांकि न्यूज रिपोर्ट्स, जिससे at कि समय यहूद inaccurate, have वर्णित it as the व्यस्ततम खरीदारी दिन of the year for a much longer period of time.
The दिन 's नाम originated in फिलाडेल्फिया, जहाँ it originally थी प्रयुक्त to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving.
Use of the term started before 1961 and began to देखिए broader उपयोग बाहर फिलाडेल्फिया around 1975.
बाद an वैकल्पिक स्पष्टीकरण began to be offered : कि `` ब्लैक शुक्रवार '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit, or are `` ''.
For अनेक सालो, it थी आम लिये रिटेलर to खोलें at 6:00 a.m., but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This was लिया to a नई चरम in 2011, जब अनेक रिटेलर ( सहित निशाना, kohl 's, macy 's, Best Buy, and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time.
In 2012, Walmart and several other retailers announced that they होता खोलें सबसे of उनके स्टोर्स at 8:00 p.m. on थैंक्सगिविंग दिन ( मगर in राज्य जहाँ खोलने on थैंक्सगिविंग is निषिद्ध due to ब्लू कानून, ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स जहाँ वे स्टिल खोली around midnight ), prompting calls for a walkout among some workers.
Black शुक्रवार खरीदारी is ज्ञात लिये attracting आक्रामक crowds, साथ सालाना रिपोर्ट्स of assaults, shootings, and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out.
The Family That Preys is a 2008 अमरीकी फिल्म नाटक लिखा, उत्पादित, and directed by Tyler Perry.
The screenplay focuses on two families, one धनवान और the अन्य working क्लास, जिनकी जीवनदान हैं intertwined in दोनो प्रेम and business.
The movie is the second of चार in जिससे पेरी 's हस्ताक्षर अक्षर, madea, does not make an appearance.
It is also the second Perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside पापा 's छोटी लड़कियों ) कि is नहीं आधारित on कोई of the filmmaker 's stage plays.
Net 10, Net 15, Net 30 and Net 60 ( भी जाल 10 दिनों, et al ) हैं फ़ॉर्म of व्यापार क्रेडिट जिससे बताएँ कि the जाल राशि ( the कुल बकाया on the चालान ) is अपेक्षित to be सशुल्क in full and received by the seller within 10, 15, 30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed.
Net 30 or Net 60 terms are often coupled साथ a क्रेडिट लिये जल्दी भुगतान.
The word net in this sense अर्थात् `` कुल बाद सब discounts. ''
It originally derives इससे the लैटिन nitere ( to चमक ) और nitidus ( सुरुचिपूर्ण, trim ), और more recently from the French net ( sharp, neat, clean ).
roadtown, tortola
the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज यहूद the आइलैंड्स in और around the caribbean कि were part of the British Empire.
In 1912, the British West Indies were divided into आठ colonies : the बहामा, बारबाडोस, अंग्रेजों guiana, अंग्रेजों होंडुरास, जमैका ( साथ इसके dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands ), Trinidad and Tobago, the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands.
Between 1958 and 1962, all of the island territories मगर the अंग्रेजों वर्जिन आइलैंड्स, the बहामा, अंग्रेजों होंडुरास और अंग्रेजों Guiana were organised into the West Indies Federation.
It was hoped that the Federation would become independent as a single nation, but it था सीमित शक्तियां, अनेक व्यावहारिक समस्याएं, और a कमी of लोकप्रिय support.
Consequently, the वेस्ट इंडीज संघ was dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are now independent as separate countries, with membership to अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय forums ऐसे as the संगठन of अमरीकी राज्य, the संघ of caribbean राज्य, the संसार व्यापार संगठन, the United Nations, the Caribbean Community, the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean Development Bank among others.
The शेष हैं अंग्रेजों विदेशी territories.
All the former nations of the British West इंडीज, मगर the राष्ट्रमंडल of डोमिनिकन, गुयाना और त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो, हैं राष्ट्रमंडल realms.
The term is still प्रयुक्त लिये अंग्रेजों विदेशी territories in the caribbean, such as the Cayman Islands.
The बाकी अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज
`` What a अद्भुत संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा by bob thiele ( as `` जार्ज Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a सिंगल in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss यहूद दोनो prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a निर्माता और वेइस as a composer/performer ).
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's रिकॉर्डिंग थी inducted in the ग्रैमी Hall of Fame in 1999.
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music समूह, कार्लिन म्यूज़िक corp., और कीड़ा म्यूज़िक, inc.
उद्घाटन दिन 2009 on the वेस्ट कदम of the U.S. Capitol.
President George W. Bush and First Lady लौरा बुश सीसे the inaugural परेड bas पेन्सिलवेनिया Avenue to the White House, 2005
The inauguration of the president of the संयुक्त राज्य is a ceremonial इवेंट अंकन the शुरुआत of a नई four-year term of a president of the United States.
The day a presidential inauguration occurs is ज्ञात as `` उद्घाटन दिन '' और occurs on जनवरी 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ).
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment, the date was March 4, the day of the year on जिससे the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य पहला took प्रभाव in 1789 ; the पिछला उद्घाटन to लो प्लेस on the पुरानी तिथि थी फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4, 1933. )
The most recent public अध्यक्षीय उद्घाटन रस्म, the swearing in of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा to begin his second four-year term in office, took place on Monday, January 21, 2013.
The only उद्घाटन तत्व mandated by the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is कि the अध्यक्ष मेक an शपथ or प्रतिज्ञान पहले कि व्यक्ति can `` डालें on the Execution '' of the office of the presidency.
However, over the years, various परंपराओं have arisen कि have विस्तारित the उद्घाटन इससे a सरल oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event, including parades, speeches, and balls.
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through कि of jimmy कार्टर, the प्राथमिक उद्घाटन दिन रस्म took प्लेस on the Capitol 's East Portico.
Since the 1981 inauguration of रोनाल्ड reagan, the रस्म रै महरूम आयोजित at the Capitol 's West Front.
The inaugurations of William हावर्ड taft in 1909 और reagan in 1985 यहूद स्थानांतरित indoors at the कैपिटल due to cold weather.
The War of 1812 and World War II caused दो inaugurations to be आयोजित at अन्य स्थितियाँ in Washington, D.C.
जब जार्ज वॉशिंगटन थी उदघाटन, the शपथ थी administered by रॉबर्ट livingston, चांसलर of नई यॉर्क राज्य, in 1789, and by William Cushing, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, in 1793.
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John एडम्स, no मुख्य इंसाफ रै छूटी an उद्घाटन दिन.
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a संडे, the मुख्य इंसाफ रै administered the शपथ to the अध्यक्ष on the संडे privately और तब again the अगला day publicly.
When a नई अध्यक्ष takes over mid-term due to the मौत or इस्तीफा of a अध्यक्ष, the शपथ of दफ्तर is administered but formal, public inauguration events have not been held.
stefani जोआन एंजेलीना germanotta ( ; born कूच 28, 1986 ), ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम महिला गागा, is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, नर्तकी, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, actress and philanthropist.
Born and raised in New York City, she primarily studied at the कान्वेंट of the पवित्र दिल और briefly attended नई यॉर्क विश्वविद्यालयों 's tisch स्कूल of the कला पहले withdrawing to फ़ोकस on her musical career.
She soon began performing in the चट्टान म्यूज़िक झाँकी of Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
By the end of 2007, record executive and producer Vincent Herbert signed her to his label Streamline रिकॉर्ड, an imprint of interscope रिकॉर्ड.
Initially working as a songwriter at interscope रिकॉर्ड, उसके गायन abilities captured the ध्यान of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार एकॉन, जो also signed her to Kon Live Distribution, his own label under Interscope.
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording artist following the release of उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, the कीर्ति ( 2008 ), जिससे थी a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी कि अव्वल चार्ट around the संसार और शामिल the अंतरराष्ट्रीय number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face ``.
After embarking on the The कीर्ति बॉल दौरे, वो followed the एल्बम साथ the कीर्ति दानव ( 2009 ), जिससे शाखित the विश्वव्यापी hit singles `` Bad Romance ``, `` Telephone ``, and `` Alejandro ``.
The Fame Monsters success अनुमत उसके to embark on the eighteen-month long दानव बॉल दौरे, जिससे बाद became एक of the highest-grossing कॉन्सर्ट tours of all time.
Her most recent album, Born This Way ( 2011 ), अव्वल the चार्ट of सबसे प्रमुख बाज़ार और उत्पन्न अधिक अंतरराष्ट्रीय chart-topping singles, including `` Born This Way ``, `` Judas ``, and `` The Edge of Glory ``.
बहकावे by britney स्पीयर्स, दाउद बोवी, माइकल जैक्सन, मैडोना, और महारानी, महिला गागा is पहचाना लिये उसके flamboyant, विविध और outré योगदान to the music industry through her fashion, performances and music videos.
As of October 2011, she has sold an estimated 23 million एल्बम और 64 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी और उसके singles हैं कुछ of the best-selling worldwide.
Her उपलब्धियाँ शामिल पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार and 13 MTV Video Music Awards.
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in vh1 's सूची of 100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक, is the छठे बेहतरीन selling डिजिटल singles कलाकार in us according to riaa, is regularly लगाई on सूचियाँ रचित by फोर्ब्स पत्रिका और थी नामित एक of the सबसे influential लोगों in the world by Time magazine.
Besides her musical करियर, वो involves herself साथ humanitarian कल्याणकारी and LGBT activism.
McKethan स्टेडियम घर of घड़ियाल बेसबॉल
A picture of the 1924 बेसबॉल team
The Florida gators बेसबॉल टोली represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of फ्लोरिडा in the sport of baseball.
The Florida Gators compete in Division I of the National Collegiate Athletics Association ( ncaa ), और the पूर्वी प्रभाग of the southeastern सम्मेलन ( सेक ).
They play their home games in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium on the विश्वविद्यालयों 's gainesville, फ्लोरिडा कैम्पस, और हैं फिलहाल led by सिर coach Kevin O'Sullivan.
In the ninety-eight season history of the gators बेसबॉल कार्यक्रम, the टोली रै जीती बारह सेक championships और रै appeared in आठ कॉलेज संसार Series tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects here.
For the Radiohead सोंग, देखिए ok कंप्यूटर.
Presidential campaign बटन लिये अब्राहम lincoln, 1860.
The reverse side of the बटन shows a पोर्ट्रेट of उसके कार्यशील mate Hannibal Hamlin.
A political अभियान is an व्यवस्थित प्रयत्न जिससे seeks to influence the निर्णय making process within a specific group.
In democracies, political campaigns often refer to चुनावी अभियान, wherein प्रतिनिधि हैं चुनी or referendums are decided.
In modern राजनीती, the सबसे ऊँची प्रोफ़ाइल राजनैतिक अभियान हैं केन्द्रित on उम्मीदवार लिये सिर of राज्य or head of government, often a President or Prime Minister.
एलिज़ाबेथ cady stanton and her daughter, Harriot
एलिज़ाबेथ cady stanton ( नवम्बर 12, 1815 – अक्तूबर 26, 1902 ) थी an अमरीकी सोशल activist, abolitionist, और अग्रणी figure of the early women 's rights movement.
Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the पहला महिलाओं 's अधिकारों सम्मेलन आयोजित in 1848 in seneca जलप्रपात, नई यॉर्क, is प्रायः credited साथ initiating the पहला व्यवस्थित महिलाओं 's अधिकारों and women 's suffrage movements in the United States.
Before Stanton narrowed उसके राजनैतिक फ़ोकस लगभग exclusively to महिलाओं 's अधिकारों, वो थी an क्रियाशील abolitionist together with her husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit Smith.
Unlike many of those involved in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति, stanton addressed विभिन्न मुद्दे pertaining to महिलाओं परे voting rights.
उसके चिंताएं शामिल महिलाओं 's parental और कस्टडी अधिकारों, प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों, नियुक्ति और आय अधिकारों, divorce, the economic health of the family, and birth control.
She थी भी an outspoken समर्थक of the 19th-century temperance movement.
After the American Civil War, Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति जब वो, साथ साथ सुसान B. एंथोनी, अस्वीकृत to support ड्योढ़ी of the fourteenth और पंद्रहवीं Amendments to the United States Constitution.
She opposed giving added legal सुरक्षा और मतदान अधिकारों to अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी मेन while women, black and white, were denied those same rights.
Her position on this issue, together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond मतदान अधिकारों, led to the गठन of दो पृथक महिलाओं 's अधिकारों संगठन कि यहूद आखिरकार rejoined, साथ stanton as अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त संगठन, लगभग बीस सालो बाद उसके ब्रेक इससे the original women 's suffrage movement.
stanton died in 1902 having authored दोनो the स्त्री 's बाइबल और उसके आत्मकथा, साथ साथ अनेक आलेख और pamphlets concerning मादा suffrage and women 's rights.
My Fair Lady is a musical आधारित upon जार्ज बर्नार्ड शॉ 's pygmalion और साथ किताब और गीत by एलन jay lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.
The स्टोरी चिंताएं eliza doolittle, a काकनी पुष्प लड़की जो takes वाक lessons इससे प्राध्यापक हेनरी हिगिंस, a phoneticist, so that she may pass as a well-born lady.
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit, सेटिंग कया थी तब the रिकार्ड लिये the longest चलाएं of कोई प्रमुख musical theatre production in history.
It was followed by a hit London production, a लोकप्रिय फिल्मी संस्करण, और numerous revivals.
It has been पुकारा `` the पूर्ण musical ''.
deregulation is the अधिनियम or प्रक्रम of निकालना or reducing state regulations.
It is therefore विपरीत of विनियमन, जिससे refers to the प्रक्रम of the सरकारी regulating certain activities.
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 a.M., 8 f.m. प्लस 2 f.m. अनुवादक ) सीबीएस रेडियो संजाल जिससे carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins.
The network 's फ्लैगशिप स्टेशन is wbz-fm /98.5- बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स.
Dave goucher announces play-by-play.
Bob beers provides color commentary.
This आलेख is परिचय the short story.
लिये the कविता by सारा teasdale, देखिए वहीँ होगा Come Soft Rains.
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by विज्ञान fiction लेखक रे bradbury जिससे थी पहला प्रकाशित in the may 6, 1950 समस्या of collier 's.
Later that same साल the स्टोरी थी शामिल in bradbury 's the martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 billion people, Han Chinese is the largest जातीय समूह in the संसार.
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region, which sits in an क्षेत्रफल between दक्षिण of the हिन्दू कुश in अफगानिस्तान और the सिंधु नदी in Pakistan.
They number around 50 लाख.
The Korowai people of Papua numbered just around 3,000 लोगों, और यहूद uncontacted जबतक the 1970s.
Ethnicity or ethnic group is a socially पारिभाषित श्रेणी आधारित on आम संस्कृति or राष्ट्रीयता.
Ethnicity can, but does not have to, include common ancestry, रूप, भोजन, ड्रेसिंग स्टाइल, विरासत, इतिहास, भाषा or dialect, धर्म, symbols, traditions, or other cultural factor.
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through आम विशेषताएँ जिससे नियत the समूह अलावा इससे अन्य समूह.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य, रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, सौर थर्मल विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, बदलें और वितरित solar energy.
Active solar तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors to harness the energy.
passive सौर तकनीकों शामिल orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce प्रदूषण, निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating जलवायु change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ हैं वैश्विक.
Hence the additional लागत of the प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; वे जरूर be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
The शास्त्रीय लैटिन वर्णमाला or रोमन वर्णमाला विकसित इससे a पश्चिमी किस्में of the यूनानी वर्णमाला पुकारा the cumaean वर्णमाला, which was adopted and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome.
The Etruscan alphabet was in फेरे अपनाया और further परिवर्धित by the प्राचीन romans to write the Latin language.
During the Middle Ages, the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages, direct descendants of लैटिन, as खूब as to सेल्टिक, germanic, बाल्टिक, और कुछ स्लावी भाषाएं.
With the age of colonialism and Christian इंजीलवाद, the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट थी स्प्रेड विदेशी, और लागू to स्वदेशी अमरीकी, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, Austronesian, Austroasiatic, and African languages.
More recently, linguists have भी tended to prefer the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट or the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ध्वन्यात्मक वर्णमाला ( itself largely आधारित on लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट ) जब transcribing or creating written standards for non-European languages, such as the African reference alphabet.
The term Latin वर्णमाला may refer to either the वर्णमाला प्रयुक्त to लिखें लैटिन ( as वर्णित in इस आलेख ), or अन्य alphabets आधारित on the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट, जिससे is the मौलिक नियत of अक्षर common to the various alphabets descended from the classical Latin one, such as the English alphabet.
ये latin-derived alphabets may छोड़ें अक्षर, जैसे the rotokas वर्णमाला, or add new letters, like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet.
Letter shapes have बदला over the सदियां, सहित the सृष्टि लिये मध्यकालीन लैटिन of निम्नतर मामला फ़ॉर्म which did not exist in the Classical period.
The assassination of United States अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln took प्लेस on शुभ शुक्रवार, अप्रैल 14, 1865, as the अमरीकी Civil War was drawing to a close.
The हत्या occurred पाँच दिनों बाद the कमांडर of the confederate फौज of Northern Virginia, General Robert E. Lee, surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the first अमरीकी अध्यक्ष to be assassinated, हालांकि an unsuccessful attempt था महरूम बना on एंड्रयू जैक्सन 30 सालो पहले in 1835.
The assassination was planned and carried out by the well-known स्टेज कर्ता जॉन wilkes बूथ, as भाग of a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause.
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold, who were आबंटित to मार सचिव of राज्य विलियम H. seward, और जार्ज atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson.
By simultaneously eliminating the शीर्ष तीन लोगों in the प्रशासन, बूथ और उसके co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government.
Lincoln was shot while watching the खेल हमारी अमरीकी cousin साथ उसके बीवी मरियम टॉड lincoln at घाट 's थिएटर in वॉशिंगटन, D.C. on the night of April 14, 1865.
He died जल्दी the अगला morning.
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only प्रबंधित to घाव seward, जबकि atzerodt, जॉनसन 's would-be हत्यारे, खोया उसके तंत्रिका and fled Washington.
add-on might mean:
plug-in ( कम्प्यूटिंग ), a टुकड़ा of तन्त्र जिससे enhances another तन्त्र application and usually can not be run independently
Browser extension, जिससे modifies the इंटरफ़ेस and/or बर्ताव of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ), a piece of software कि enhances और customizes mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ), the official Mozilla Foundation web site जिससे serves as a repository of add-ons लिये mozilla-based applications
परिधीय, an वैकल्पिक कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर घटक कि significantly पूरक or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory, a टुकड़ा of हार्डवेयर प्रयुक्त in संयोजन साथ a वीडियो खेल console for playing video games
Club level seating is a special खण्ड of seating in आधुनिक खेल स्टेडियम.
The Club Level is usually located towards the मध्य of the स्टेज of seating भाग, ऊपर the निम्नतर डेक लकिन नीचे the upper deck.
They are usually right next to the Luxury Boxes, either सही ऊपर, सही नीचे, or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes.
Club Level seating is माना as उच्चतर क्लास than बैठे anywhere else in the एरिना, but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes.
नापसंद the लक्ज़री बाक्स, सबसे क्लबों स्तर do not wrap entirely around the arena.
Some club levels stop at a certain point, giving way to an विस्तार of the मेज़ानाइन, जबकि अन्य दे रास्ता to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ).
A notable exception to इस is अमीरात स्टेडियम in लंदन, जिससे रै a पूरा टियर of क्लबों seating.
Club Levels allow प्रशंसक अनेक स्तर of entertainment.
Club Level seating is खोलें to the तत्व, as opposed to the entirely enclosed लक्ज़री बाक्स, जिससे देता more of an outdoors impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas.
Club Level seating is सामान्यतः खरीदा on a अनुबंध आधार to allow लिये अधिकतम लाभ on the part of the stadium.
The क्लबों स्तर provides प्रशंसक साथ खास अभिगम to an अंदर भाग of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets.
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to खास रेस्तरां, merchandise स्टैंड, और लाउंज क्षेत्रों of the स्टेडियम कि हैं not otherwise available.
Concession stands and vendors on the Club स्तर भी प्रायः प्रस्ताव अलग मेनू than in अन्य stands to give more of a special feel to the Club.
These areas are बंद बंद to the बाकी of the स्टेडियम, और वे प्रायः can तभी be पहुँचा through the exclusive, private club entrances.
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia villani scicolone ; 20 सितंबर 1934 ) is an Italian actress.
Loren is widely recognized as इटली 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध और सम्मानित अभिनेत्री.
She was the first actress of the talkie era to win an Academy Award for a non-english-speaking प्रदर्शन, लिये उसके portrayal of cesira in vittorio de सिका 's दो महिलाओं.
Her अन्य पुरस्कार शामिल a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, पाँच special Golden Globes, a BAFTA Award and a Laurel Award.
In 1995 she received the Cecil B. DeMille पुरस्कार लिये आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ, एक of अनेक ऐसे पुरस्कार.
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ), El Cid ( 1961 ), कल, आज और कल ( 1963 ), विवाह italian-style ( 1964 ), और a खास दिन ( 1977 ).
In later years she has appeared in अमरीकी blockbusters ऐसे as grumpier बूढ़ा मेन ( 1995 ), and Nine ( 2009 ).
In 1994 वो स्ट्रक्चर in रॉबर्ट altman 's prêt-à-porter, जिससे अर्जित उसके a सुनहरी Globe nomination the same year.
वो रै भी हासिल नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ).
मौतों लिये self-inflicted चोटों प्रति 100,000 inhabitants in 2004.
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both धार्मिक और सोशल pressures, और संभवतः completely unreported in कुछ क्षेत्रों.
nevertheless, इससे reported मामले, निश्चित रुझान are apparent.
Since the data is skewed, comparing आत्महत्या दरों between राष्ट्र is statistically unsound.
the रुझान themselves हैं नहीं the कारण, लकिन may be indicative of a root cause.
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for लड़कियों - दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी is a मादा बोर्डिंग स्कूल संस्थापित in जनवरी 2007 और स्तिथ in henley on klip निकट meyerton, दक्षिण of जोहान्सबर्ग, South Africa.
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing educational and नेतृत्व अवसर लिये academically gifted लड़कियों इससे impoverished पृष्ठभूमि.
Oprah Winfrey नेतृत्व अकादमी लिये Girls
Digicel is a मोबाईल फोन संजाल प्रदाता ऑपरेटिंग in 31 बाज़ार आरपार the caribbean, Central America, and Oceania regions.
The company is owned by Irishman Denis o'brien, is incorporated in बरमूडा, और based in Jamaica.
it रै परिचय 13 लाख wireless users.
As of 2012, Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, El साल्वाडोर, फिजी, फ्रेंच guiana, हरा, guadeloupe, गुयाना, हैती, जमैका, मार्टीनिक, प्रकृति, पनामा, पापुआ नई गिनी, समोआ, संत किट्स और नेविस, संत लूसिया, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and Caicos, and Vanuatu.
This is a list of रिकॉर्ड of the फीफा संसार कप और इसके योग्यता matches.
Hospital Emergency Codes हैं प्रयुक्त in अस्पताल विश्वव्यापी to चेतावनी स्टाफ to various emergencies.
The use of codes is intended to convey essential सूचना जल्दी और साथ minimal गलतफहमी to स्टाफ, जबकि preventing तनाव और दहशत among visitors to the hospital.
These कोड may be posted on placards throughout the हॉस्पिटल, or printed on employee identification badges for ready reference.
Back of a हॉस्पिटल id बैज प्रर्दशित विपत्ति कोड.
हॉस्पिटल आपात कोड may denote अलग कार्यक्रम at different hospitals, including nearby ones.
Because many physicians work at more than one facility, this may lead to भ्रम in emergencies, so वर्दी प्रणालियों have महरूम प्रस्तावित.
The रूट of the eifel जलसेतु, साथ इसके average slope.
The Eifel जलसेतु थी एक of the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire.
The aqueduct, constructed in AD 80, carried water कुछ इससे the hilly eifel प्रदेश of कया is अभी जर्मनी to the प्राचीन नगर of colonia claudia आरा agrippinensium ( present-day कोलोन ).
if the auxiliary स्पर्स to अतिरिक्त स्रोतों are included, the length was.
The construction was almost entirely below ground, and the flow of the water was उत्पादित entirely by गम्भीरता.
A few bridges, including एक up to in लंबाई, यहूद needed to pass over valleys.
Unlike कुछ of the अन्य प्रसिद्ध रोमन aqueducts, the eifel जलसेतु थी specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing.
In chemistry, a disulfide bond ( Br.E. disulphide बंध ) is a covalent बंध, प्रायः निकला by the coupling of दो thiol groups.
The linkage is भी पुकारा an SS-bond or disulfide bridge.
The overall कनेक्टिविटी is इसलिए R-S-S-R.
The शब्दावली is widely प्रयुक्त in biochemistry.
In औपचारिक शर्तें, the कनेक्शन is a persulfide, in सादृश्य to इसके congener, परऑक्साइड ( r-o-o-r ), लकिन इस शब्दावली is obscure and is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ).
Formal चित्रण of disulfide बंध गठन as an oxidation.
Westminster ऐबी is प्रयुक्त लिये the राजतिलक of अंग्रेजों monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it, रै महरूम वर्चस्व, लिये over 1,400 सालो, by विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of christianity.
According to some surveys, a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity, although regular गिरिजाघर उपस्थिति रै गिरे dramatically चूंकि the मध्य of the 20th सदी, और आव्रजन और जनसांख्यिकी बदलें have contributed to the विकास of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are अंकित by नियमित सर्वेक्षण, the चार प्रमुख ones होने the uk जनसांख्यिकी, the श्रमिक फ़ोर्स सर्वेक्षण, the अंग्रेजों सोशल attitudes सर्वेक्षण और the European Social Survey.
According to the 2001 UK जनसांख्यिकी, christianity is the प्रमुख धर्म, followed by islam, हिंदुत्व, sikhism, judaism और buddhism in शर्तें of number of adherents.
This, and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no धार्मिक संबद्धों रै led टीकाकारों to variously describe the संयुक्त किंगडम as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-christian society.
The United Kingdom was formed by the संघ of previously स्वतंत्र देशों इससे 1707, and consequently most of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures.
While some groups have separate structures लिये the व्यक्तिगत देशों of the संयुक्त किंगडम, अन्य may have a सिंगल ढांचा covering इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स or Great Britain.
Similarly, due to the अपेक्षाकृत हाल सृष्टि of उत्तरी आयरलैंड in 1921, सबसे प्रमुख धार्मिक समूह in उत्तरी Ireland are organised on an all-Ireland basis.
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil disturbance कि occurred in the नगर of न्यूर्क, New Jersey between July 12 and July 17, 1967.
The six days of rioting, looting, और विनाश बाएँ 26 मुर्दे और सैंकड़ों injured.
In United States college athletics, redshirt is a विलंब or बर्खास्तगी of an खिलाड़ी 's भागीदारी in अनुक्रम to lengthen उसके or her period of eligibility.
Typically, a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four seasons, a number निकला इससे the चार सालो of अकादमिक वर्ग कि हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a स्नातक 's उपाधि at an अमरीकी college or university.
However, a student खिलाड़ी may be offered the अवसर to redshirt लिये up to दो सालो, जिससे allows the खिलाड़ी to स्प्रेड those four years of eligibility over five, or sometimes six years.
In a redshirt year, a student खिलाड़ी may attend वर्ग at the कॉलेज or विश्वविद्यालयों, अभ्यास साथ an एथलेटिक टोली, और dress for play but he or she may not compete during the game.
Using this mechanism, a student athlete has up to five अकादमिक सालो to उपयोग the चार सालो of पात्रता, यूँ बनने a fifth-year वरिष्ठ.
The term is used as a क्रिया, संज्ञा, और क्रियाशील.
लिये उदाहरण, a कोच may चुनें to redshirt a खिलाड़ी जो is तब referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
The opposite of this is a `` सच्चा freshman. ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It was predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
Ultimately, more than 70 million सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र शामिल.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय.
More तत्काल, the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला छोटी until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the austro-hungarians, लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
The युद्ध ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
the successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक छोटी states.
The लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार War II.
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist states अंतर्गत the marxist–leninist or माओवादी परिभाषा - कि is to कह, `` कम्युनिस्ट राज्य '' - between 1979 and 1983.
इस काल चिह्नित the महानतम territorial extent of Communist states.
A communist state is a state where the means of उत्पादन हैं collectively स्वामित्व by the समाज.
It has a रूप of सरकारी characterized by single-party नियम or dominant-party नियम of a कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी ( referred as तानाशाही of the proletariat by इसके proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
Technically, `` communist राज्य '' is a contradictio in terminis as a कम्युनिस्ट समाज as पारिभाषित by दोनो माक्र्सवादी and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From this perspective, the term marxist-leninist राज्य is more appropriate.
Historically, a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today, a कम्युनिस्ट राज्य can भी, लिये उदाहरण, refer to समकालीन चीन और वियतनाम, जहाँ a कम्युनिस्ट party-run राज्य exists alongside a mixed economy.
According to Marxist–Leninists, the state is a tool in the हैंड्स of the सत्ताधारी क्लास, जिससे in a समाजवादी समाज is the working क्लास, so a समाजवादी state is, according to Leninists, a state of the working class.
In practice, कम्युनिस्ट राज्य do नहीं दरअसल refer to themselves as such.
They do this not to disguise the fact that the ruling पार्टी is कम्युनिस्ट, लकिन बल्कि क्युकी वे do नहीं consider themselves to be a communist society at present.
Instead, they constitutionally पहचानो themselves as समाजवादी राज्य or मजदूर ' राज्य.
The primary goal of ये राज्य, जिससे भी explains उनके आधिकारिक नाम, is to मार्गदर्शिका उनके संबंधित देशों in the process of building socialism, ultimately leading to communism.
Communist states may have several legal political parties, लकिन the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी is प्रायः granted a खास or प्रबल भूमिका in सरकारी, प्रायः by statute or अंतर्गत the संविधान.
Consequently, the संस्थानों of the राज्य और of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी become intimately entwined, ऐसे as in the विकास of parallel institutions.
In the 20th सदी, सबसे कम्युनिस्ट states adopted planned economies.
However, there were exceptions : the सोवियत संघ दौरान the 1920s और लेट 1980s और यूगोस्लाविया बाद संसार युद्ध ii अनुमत सीमित बाज़ार और a उपाधि of कार्यकर्ता self-management, while China, Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
In the 21st सदी, चीन और वियतनाम have अनुमत a मिश्रित economy to develop.
The fundamental अवधारणाओं of कम्युनिस्ट राज्य प्रायः diverge इससे the असली socio-economic ideologies from which they develop.
As a result, many adherents of these विचारधाराओं प्रायः oppose the राजनैतिक प्रणालियों commonly संबद्ध साथ these states.
For example, dissenting साम्यवादियों ऐसे as trotskyists यहूद प्रायः opposed to the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of the 20th सदी, claiming either कि वे था nothing to do साथ `` रियल '' साम्यवादी or कि the विचारधारा of ऐसे राज्य had reached a point of irrevocable corruption.
Michael फ्रेड फेल्प्स ii ( born जून 30, 1985 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी तैराक और the सबसे सजा Olympian of all time, with a total of 22 medals.
Phelps also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals ( 18, double the second highest record holders ), ओलम्पिक सुनहरा medals in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम ( 11 ), और ओलम्पिक medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ).
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games, Phelps took the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे first-place finishes at कोई सिंगल ओलम्पिक खेल.
Five of those victories यहूद in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम, tying the single Games record.
In the 2012 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in लंदन, फेल्प्स जीती चार golds और दो चांदी medals, बनाना उसे the सबसे successful athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row.
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as खूब as the पूर्व long कोर्स संसार recordholder in the 200-meter फ्रीस्टाइल और 200-meter व्यक्तिगत medley.
He has जीती a कुल of 71 medals in प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय long-course प्रतियोगिता, 57 सुनहरा, 11 चांदी, and three bronze spanning the Olympics, the World, and the Pan Pacific Championships.
Phelps 's अंतरराष्ट्रीय शीर्षक और record-breaking प्रदर्शन have अर्जित उसे the संसार तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार सात टाइम्स और अमरीकी तैराक of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012.
His unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 अर्जित फेल्प्स खेल illustrated पत्रिका 's Sportsman of the Year award.
After the 2008 Summer Olympics, Phelps started the Michael फेल्प्स न्यास, जिससे focuses on growing the खेल of तैराकी और promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further work with his foundation after the 2012 Olympics, जिससे he रै कहा होगा be उसके पिछला.
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a Chinese multinational computer hardware and इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कम्पनी साथ इसके मुख्यालय in बीजिंग, चीन और morrisville, उत्तर कैरोलिना और इसके पंजीकृत दफ्तर in Hong Kong, China.
Its products include personal computers, टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर, मोबाईल फोन, workstations, सर्वर, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक भंडार devices, IT management software and smart televisions.
Lenovo is the world 's second-largest pc विक्रेता by 2012 ईकाई sales.
It बाज़ार the थिंकपैड लकीर of कोपी कंप्यूटर and the ThinkCentre line of desktops.
Lenovo has परिचालन in अधिक than 60 देशों और sells its products in around 160 countries.
लेनोवो थी संस्थापित in बीजिंग in 1984 और incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 under its previous name, Legend.
Lenovo is listed on the हांग काँग भण्डार एक्सचेंज और is a constituent of the हैंग सेंग china-affiliated Corporations Index.
Slug is a common name लिये an जाहिर shell-less स्थलीय gastropod mollusk.
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the common name of any gastropod mollusc कि रै no शेल, रै a बहुत घटाया शेल, or रै तभी a small internal shell.
( This is in contrast to the आम नाम `` घोंघा ``, जिससे is लागू to gastropods कि have a नतीजे शेल कि is विशाल enough that the soft parts of the animal can retract fully into it. )
slugs मौजूद on जमीन और in the समुद्र, और वहीँ is भी one genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to जमीन slugs, whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे freshwater हैं usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs ''.
Land gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial, लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( जैसे अनेक in the परिवार urocyclidae ), are known as semislugs.
The विभिन्न taxonomic परिवारों of slugs रूप भाग of अनेक काफी अलग विकासवादी lineages which also include snails.
Thus, for example, the various families of land slugs are not very closely सम्बन्धित to एक another, despite a सतही समानता in the overall body form.
The shell-less कंडीशन रै arisen अनेक टाइम्स independently दौरान the विकासवादी पास्ट, और यूँ the श्रेणी `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, like all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° टेढ़ी of the internal organs ) during development.
Internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the प्रभाव of इस रोटेशन, लकिन externally the लाशें of जमीन slugs appear to be more or less symmetrical, except for the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one side of the animal, normally the right hand side.
The soft, slimy लाशें of slugs हैं prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs हैं confined to नम environments and must retreat to damp hiding places when the weather is dry.
The subsequent सूचना in इस आलेख applies to land slugs.
is a लैटिन शब्द कि अर्थात् `` यूँ '' or, in लिखने, `` it was thus in the source material ''.
Sic may भी refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a कम्यून in रोमानिया
sic, the क्षेत्रीय code for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a कनाडाई noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on the album Slipknot
sic, the आरंभिक of Marco Simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may स्टैंड for:
sic, सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड, a semiconducting सामग्री, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società इटालियाना cyclecars )
Standard Industrial वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century u.S. प्रणाली for classifying industries
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानक औद्योगिक Classification a UN system for economic activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स Council
the स्विस interbank Clearing system
सैन isidro क्लबों, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby union club
Standing Interpretation कमेटी, a कमेटी समर्पित to the निर्वचन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय हिसाब मानकों IFRS
Schwarz सूचना मानदंड in the फ़ील्ड of statistics
Second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड of विमानन
Sistema interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति ग्रिड in चिली
Sociedade independente de comunicação ( sic ), a टेलीविज़न चैनल in Portugal
Sea आइल नगर, नई जर्सी, a तटीय कस्बा in the United States
Segmented पूर्णांक काउंटर विधि, a विधि of आपरेशन in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack कि होस्ट the मलेशियाई round of Formula 1
Shanghai अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a मोटर रेसिंग स्थान in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional कंप्यूटर, a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों programming
sic ( बेटे idées couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a two year Junior कॉलेज in harrisburg, इलिनोइस, संयुक्त राज्य
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to sic, जिससे is अधिक commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the dielectric constant
st ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a जेसुइट school in Sydney, Australia
इम्पीरियल मानक of Napoleon I
Napoleon Bonaparte (, ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political नेता जो रोज़ to prominence दौरान the latter चरण of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति और इसके associated wars in Europe.
As Napoleon I, he थी सम्राट of the फ्रेंच इससे 1804 to 1815.
His legal reform, the Napoleonic Code, has been a major influence on अनेक सिविल विधि jurisdictions विश्वव्यापी, लकिन he is बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके भूमिका in the युद्धों led विरूद्ध फ़्रांस by a श्रेणी of coalitions, the so-called napoleonic युद्धों.
He established hegemony over most of continental यूरोपीय और sought to स्प्रेड the आदर्शों of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति, जबकि consolidating an इम्पीरियल साम्राज्य which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime.
Due to उसके कामयाबी in ये युद्धों, प्रायः विरूद्ध numerically श्रेष्ठ दुश्मनों, he is generally regarded as एक of the महानतम military commanders of all time, and his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide.
नेपोलियन थी born at ajaccio in corsica in a परिवार of प्रतिष्ठित Italian ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century.
He प्रशिक्षित as an तोपखाने अधिकारी in mainland France.
He rose to prominence under the French First Republic and led कामयाब अभियान विरूद्ध the पहला और दूसरी coalitions arrayed against France.
He led a कामयाब आक्रमण of the इतालवी प्रायद्वीप.
In 1799, he staged a coup d'état and संस्थापित खुद as पहला कौंसुल ; पाँच सालो बाद the फ्रेंच सीनेट proclaimed him emperor, following a plebiscite in his favour.
In the first decade of the 19th सदी, the फ्रेंच साम्राज्य अंतर्गत नेपोलियन सगाई in a श्रेणी of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved every major European power.
After a streak of victories, France secured a प्रबल स्थिति in महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय, और नेपोलियन कायम the फ्रेंच गोला of influence through the गठन of extensive alliances और the नियुक्ति of मित्रों and family members to rule other European countries as French client states.
The Peninsular War और 1812 फ्रेंच आक्रमण of रूस चिह्नित turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes.
His Grande Armée थी badly क्षतिग्रस्त in the अभियान और never fully recovered.
In 1813, the Sixth Coalition पराजित उसके शक्तियां at लिपजिग ; the following साल the गठबन्धन invaded France, forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled him to the island of Elba.
Less than a year later, he escaped Elba and लौटे to शक्ति, लकिन थी पराजित at the बैटल of वाटरलू in जून 1815.
नेपोलियन खर्च the पिछला छह सालो of उसके जीवन in confinement by the British on the island of Saint Helena.
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer, but वहीँ रै महरूम कुछ बहस परिचय the कारण of उसके मौत, as कुछ विद्वानों have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning.
This is a कालानुक्रमिक लिस्टिंग of the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों from Pennsylvania.
संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों हैं popularly निर्वाचित, लिये a six-year term, beginning January 3.
चुनावों हैं आयोजित the पहला मंगलवार after November 1.
Before 1914, they were chosen by the Pennsylvania सामान्य सभा, और पहले 1935, उनके शर्तें began कूच 4.
The South Africa नेशनल रग्बी संघ टोली ( ज्ञात as the springboks ) represents दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी in rugby union.
They compete in the सालाना रग्बी चैंपियनशिप, साथ साथ southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina, Australia and New Zealand.
They have जीती इस चैंपियनशिप on तीन अवसरों in sixteen years.
They are currently ranked second in the world by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी फलक, और यहूद नामित 2008 संसार टोली of the साल at the Laureus World Sports Awards.
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup competition, the springboks किया नहीं compete in the पहला दो संसार cups in 1987 और 1991 क्युकी of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa.
The team made its World Cup debut in 1995, when the newly लोकतांत्रिक दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी hosted the टूर्नामेंट.
The Springboks तब पराजित the सब अश्वेतों 15–12 in the फाइनल, जिससे is अभी remembered as एक of the महानतम पल in दक्षिण Africa 's sporting history, and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process.
South अफ़्रीकी regained उनके शीर्षक as champions 12 सालो बाद, जब they defeated England 15–6 in the 2007 final.
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the springboks यहूद प्रचारित to पहला प्लेस in the आईआरबी संसार rankings, a स्थिति वे आयोजित जबतक जुलाई the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot.
The Springboks play in green and gold jerseys, and उनके प्रतीक हैं the springbok और the protea.
the पक्ष रै महरूम playing अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी चूंकि 1891, जब a अंग्रेजों isles पक्ष toured the nation, playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July.
South Africa was coached by जेक श्वेत, जो led the boks to the 2007 संसार कप शीर्षक, announcing उसके इस्तीफा effectively from the end of 2007.
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011, following a 11–9 शिकस्त to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the रग्बी संसार कप quarter-final, जो तब stated he होता नहीं be हस्ताक्षर a new deal.
the पिछला कप्तान थी जॉन smit, जो पहले he रिटायर्ड in 2011 निभाई वेश्या लिये most of his career, although he has also been a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
Due to Smit being unavailable for the नवम्बर 2010 परीक्षण बाद सर्जरी, ताला विक्टर matfield took smit 's प्लेस as captain for that tour.
The current captain is जां de villiers.
The Battle of Gettysburg (, with an sound ), was fought July 1–3, 1863, in और around the कस्बा of gettysburg, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
It was the battle with the largest number of casualties in the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और is प्रायः वर्णित as the युद्ध 's turning पाइंट.
Union maj. gen. जार्ज गॉर्डन meade 's फौज of the potomac पराजित हमले by confederate gen. रॉबर्ट E. ली 's Army of Northern Virginia, ending Lee 's invasion of the North.
After his success at chancellorsville in वर्जिनिया in may 1863, ली led उसके फौज through the shenandoah घाटी to शुरू उसके दूसरी आक्रमण of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign.
With his army in high spirits, Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their अभियोजन of the युद्ध by penetrating as दूर as harrisburg, पेन्सिलवेनिया, or भी फिलाडेल्फिया.
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln, Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker स्थानांतरित उसके फौज in pursuit, लकिन थी सुकून बस तीन दिनों पहले the बैटल and replaced by Meade.
Elements of the two armies initially collided at gettysburg on जुलाई 1, 1863, as ली तत्काल concentrated उसके शक्तियां वहीँ, his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it.
Low ridges to the northwest of कस्बा यहूद defended initially by a संघ प्यादे प्रभाग अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर. gen. जॉन buford, and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry.
However, two large Confederate corps फहरा उन्हें इससे the उत्तरपश्चिम और उत्तर, collapsing the hastily विकसित संघ लाइनों, sending the defenders retreating through the streets of town to the hills just to the south.
On the second day of बैटल, सबसे of दोनो सेना था समवेत.
The Union line was laid out in a रक्षात्मक गठन resembling a fishhook.
In the late afternoon of July 2, ली शुभारम्भ a भारी उत्पीड़न on the संघ बाएँ पार्श्व, और fierce लड़ raged at छोटी Round Top, the Wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the Peach Orchard.
On the Union right, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on culp 's हिल और कब्रिस्तान Hill.
सब आरपार the रणभूमि, despite significant losses, the Union defenders held their lines.
On the third दिन of बैटल, जुलाई 3, लड़ resumed on culp 's हिल, और प्यादे लड़ाइयों raged to the ईस्ट और दक्षिण, लकिन the प्रमुख इवेंट थी a नाटकीय infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge, known as Pickett 's Charge.
The charge was repulsed by Union rifle and तोपखाने आग, at ग्रेट नुकसान to the confederate फौज.
ली led उसके फौज on a torturous retreat back to Virginia.
Between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers इससे दोनो सेना यहूद हताहत in the three-day battle.
That November, President Lincoln used the dedication रस्म लिये the gettysburg नेशनल कब्रिस्तान to सम्मान the गिरे संघ सैनिको और redefine the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address.
An अकादमिक अनुशासन, or फ़ील्ड of पढ़ाई, is a शाखा of ज्ञान कि is taught and researched at the college or university level.
Disciplines are defined ( in part ), and recognized by the academic journals in जिससे शोध is प्रकाशित, और the सीखे समाजों और अकादमिक विभाग or faculties to जिससे उनके practitioners belong.
However, there exists no formal criteria for when शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम और scholarly जर्नल्स रूप an अकादमिक अनुशासन.
A huge difference exists between, on the one hand, well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the world, have a long history, and have a well established set of जर्नल्स और सम्मेलनों, और, on the अन्य हाथ, सुझाव लिये नई फ़ील्ड समर्थित तभी by few विश्वविद्यालयों और publications.
Fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or शाखाओं, और the distinguishing लाइनों between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous.
PHP is a server-side एनक्रिप्शन भाषा designed लिये वेब विकास लकिन भी प्रयुक्त as a general-purpose programming language.
पीएचपी is अभी संस्थापित on अधिक than 244 लाख websites and 2.1 million web servers.
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the सन्दर्भ क्रियान्वयन of पीएचपी is अभी उत्पादित by the PHP Group.
While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page, it अभी स्टैंड लिये पीएचपी : हाइपरटेक्स्ट preprocessor, a recursive एक्रोनिम.
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a पीएचपी प्रोसेसर मोड्यूल जिससे generates the resulting वेब पेज : पीएचपी कमांड can be अंतःस्थापित सीधे into an एचटीएमएल सोर्स दस्तावेज़ rather than calling an external file to process data.
It has also evolved to include a command-line interface काबिलियत और can be प्रयुक्त in स्टैंडअलोन आलेखीय अनुप्रयोग.
PHP is free software released अंतर्गत the पीएचपी अनुज्ञा, जिससे is असंगत साथ the ग्नू सामान्य पब्लिक अनुज्ञा ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP.
PHP can be तैनात on सबसे वेब सर्वर और भी as a स्टैंडअलोन शेल on लगभग प्रत्येक operating system and platform, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर jfk, थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1961 जबतक उसके मौत in 1963.
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण प्रशांत, कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. सीनेट इससे 1953 जबतक 1960.
Kennedy defeated वाइस अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the only non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष, और is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his प्रेसिडेंसी शामिल the खाड़ी of सूअर आक्रमण, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट, the भवन of the बर्लिन वॉल, the स्पेस रेस, the african-american Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers, खास आपरेशन शक्तियां, और helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट कार्यक्रम जिससे थी implemented by the दक्षिण Vietnamese government.
It involved certain forced relocation, village internment, और पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the उत्तरी और दक्षिणी कम्युनिस्ट insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
ली घनघोर ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज साथ the अपराधों, लकिन he थी शॉट and killed by Jack Ruby two days later, before a trial could take place.
The एफबीआई और the वारेन आयोग officially concluded कि Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस चुनें कमेटी on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded कि those investigations यहूद flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their छानबीन, the कैनेडी हत्या : परे षड्यंत्र, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense tfx सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional छानबीन कि lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s सूचना concerning कैनेडी 's निजी जीवन रै आइये to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in जिससे he struggled have become बेहतर ज्ञात, विशेषकर चूंकि the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret from the general public, reports of कैनेडी 's philandering have garnered much दबायें.
Kennedy ranks highly in पब्लिक राय दरजा of u.S. presidents.
`` Stand by Me '' is a सोंग originally performed by बेन E. किंग और लिखा by किंग, जेरी leiber, और Mike Stoller, inspired by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me, '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
There have महरूम over 400 अंकित संस्करण of the song.
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D. ehrhart, shows a फार्म स्त्री labeled `` लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी '' sheltering इससे a tornado of political change.
A metaphor is a फिगर of वाक कि describes a विषय by asserting कि it is, on some point of comparison, the same as another otherwise unrelated object.
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely related to अन्य rhetorical आंकड़े of वाक कि achieve उनके प्रभाव via संघ, तुलना or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, and simile.
In simpler terms, a रूपक compares दो वस्तुएँ or बाते बगैर using the words `` like '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent examples of a रूपक in अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य is the सब the संसार 's a स्टेज monologue इससे As You Like It :
सब the संसार 's a stage,
And all the मेन और महिलाओं merely खिलाड़ी ;
They have their exits और उनके entrances ; — विलियम शेक्सपियर, as तुम Like It, 2/7
This quote is a रूपक क्युकी the संसार is नहीं literally a stage.
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage, शेक्सपियर उपयोग the अंक of तुलना between the संसार और a स्टेज to convey an समझना about the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it.
Mount Fuji, from the thirty-six दृश्य of माउंट फुजी, रंग woodcut by katsushika Hokusai
Rembrandt van Rijn, self-portrait, etching, c.1630
Francisco Goya, वहीँ is no एक to सहायता उन्हें, आपदाओं of युद्ध श्रेणी, aquatint c.1810
फेलिक्स vallotton, la raison probante ( the cogent Reason ), woodcut from the series Intimités, 1898
Printmaking is the process of making artworks by मुद्रण, सामान्यतः on पेपर.
Printmaking सामान्यतः कवर तभी the प्रक्रम of बनाना prints साथ an तत्व of originality, rather than just being a photographic reproduction of a painting.
Except in the case of monotyping, the process is सक्षम of producing multiples of the वही टुकड़ा, जिससे is called a print.
Each print उत्पादित is नहीं माना a `` नक़ल '' लकिन बल्कि is माना an `` original ''.
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking प्रक्रम, और भी क्युकी the imagery of a छपाई is typically नहीं बस a जनन of another कार्य लकिन बल्कि is प्रायः a अद्वितीय image designed from the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique.
A छपाई may be ज्ञात as an impression.
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not chosen तभी लिये इसके क्षमता to उपज अनेक impressions, लकिन बल्कि लिये the अद्वितीय qualities कि प्रत्येक of the printmaking processes lends itself to.
Prints are created by transferring स्याही इससे a मेट्रिक्स or through a prepared स्क्रीन to a चादर of पेपर or अन्य material.
Common प्रकार of matrices शामिल : मेटल प्लेटों, प्रायः तांबे or जस्ता, or पॉलिमर प्लेटों लिये नक्काशी or etching ; स्टोन, aluminum, or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts.
Screens made of silk or सिंथेटिक fabrics हैं प्रयुक्त लिये the screenprinting process.
Other types of matrix substrates और सम्बन्धित प्रक्रियाओं हैं discussed नीचे.
Multiple impressions मुद्रित इससे the वही matrix form an edition.
Since the late 19th century, कलाकारों have generally हस्ताक्षरित व्यक्तिगत impressions इससे an संस्करण और प्रायः क्रमांक the impressions to form a limited edition.
Prints may भी be मुद्रित in किताब रूप, ऐसे as illustrated books or artist 's books.
Il Divo is an अंग्रेज़ी बहुराष्ट्रीय operatic पॉप गायन समूह निर्मित by म्यूज़िक मैनेजर, कार्यपालिका, and reality TV star Simon Cowell.
Formed in the संयुक्त किंगडम, वे हैं भी हस्ताक्षरित to Cowell 's record label, Syco Music.
Il Divo is a group of चार पुरूष गायकों : फ्रेंच पॉप सिंगर सेबेस्तियन izambard, स्पेनी baritone कार्लोस marín, American tenor David Miller, and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler.
To date, वे have बेची अधिक than 26 लाख एल्बम worldwide.
Su-15, one of the principal Soviet एयर रक्षा interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor ) is a type of fighter aircraft designed specifically to prevent मिशन of दुश्मन वायुयान, विशेषकर बमवर्षक और reconnaissance वायुयान, और नष्ट उन्हें, relying usually on great speed and powerful armament.
Being used since the First World War, after the late 1960s, interceptors became कम महत्वपूर्ण due to shifting इससे बमवर्षक to इंटरकांटिनेंटल बैलिस्टिक मिसाइलें ( icbms ) लिये नाभिकीय warfare.
A Vietnamese अमरीकी ( ) is an अमरीकी of वियतनामी descent.
They make up परिचय हाफ of सब विदेशी वियतनामी ( người việt hải ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest Asian American group.
Mass Vietnamese आव्रजन to the संयुक्त राज्य प्रारंभ बाद 1975, बाद the समाप्त of the Vietnam War.
Early immigrants were शरणार्थी नाव लोगों fleeing persecution or गरीबी.
Forced to flee from their homeland and often thrust into ग़रीब शहरी पड़ोस, ये newcomers have nevertheless प्रबंधित to स्थापित strong communities in a short amount of time.
More than sixty प्रतिशत of वियतनामी अमेरिकी reside in the राज्य of California, Texas, Washington, Florida, and Virginia.
Front page of the u.S. हथियारबंद शक्तियां समाचारपत्र, सितारों और Stripes, 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by gunshot on 30 अप्रैल 1945 in उसके führerbunker in Berlin.
His wife Eva ( née Braun ) वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या साथ उसे by ingesting cyanide.
That afternoon, in accordance with Hitler 's prior निर्देश, उनके remains यहूद carried up the सीढ़ियाँ through the बंकर 's आपात निकास, doused in पेट्रोल और नियत alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker.
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains were बरामद और interred in successive स्थितियाँ जबतक 1970 जब वे यहूद again exhumed, cremated और the राख बिखरे.
Accounts differ as to the cause of मौत ; एक कि he died by ज़हर तभी और another कि he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, while biting down on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary इतिहासकारों have अस्वीकृत ये खाते as होने either सोवियत प्रचार or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions.
One eye-witness recorded that the body showed signs of having been शॉट through the मुँह, लकिन इस रै महरूम सिद्ध असंभावित.
There is also controversy regarding the authenticity of कपाल और जबड़ों fragments जिससे यहूद बरामद.
In 2009, DNA tests were performed on a कपाल सोवियत officials था long believed to be हिटलर 's.
The tests revealed कि the कपाल थी दरअसल कि of a स्त्री less than 40 years old.
स्थान of मिसौरी
The दारू कानून of मिसौरी हैं among the तनिक प्रतिबंधक and most lax and permissive in the United States.
मिसौरी is ज्ञात throughout the मिडवेस्ट लिये इसके largely laissez-faire दृष्टिकोण to दारू regulation, in sharp contrast to the very strict alcohol laws of some of its neighbors, like Kansas and Oklahoma.
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF, commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome, is a विरल संक्रमण of the deeper परतों of स्किन और subcutaneous ऊतकों, easily spreading आरपार the fascial प्लेन भीतर the subcutaneous tissue.
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having वृहद रिस्क of विकासशील in the immunocompromised due to शर्तें जैसे diabetes, cancer, etc.
It is a severe disease of अचानक onset और is प्रायः treated तत्काल साथ ऊँची doses of intravenous antibiotics.
Type I describes a polymicrobial संक्रमण, whereas प्रकार ii describes a monomicrobial infection.
Many प्रकार of जीवाणु can कारण necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., समूह a streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ), Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
ऐसे infections हैं अधिक संभावित to occur in लोगों साथ compromised immune systems.
Historically, Group A streptococcus बना up सबसे मामले of प्रकार ii infections.
However, since as early as 2001, another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis रै महरूम observed साथ increasing आवृत्ति, caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ).
Some published case reports have implied a संभावित कड़ी between उपयोग of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory दवाएँ और nf, हालांकि the प्रमाण of the कड़ी थी कहा to be कमजोर क्युकी of a छोटी क्रमांक of मामला मरीजों और it थी unclear whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se.
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ), also ज्ञात as the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, थी a वैश्विक युद्ध कि lasted from 1939 to 1945.
It involved the vast बहुमत of the संसार 's राष्ट्र —including सब of the ग्रेट powers —eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis.
it थी the सबसे फैली युद्ध in इतिहास, साथ अधिक than 100 लाख लोगों सेवारत in military units from over 30 different countries.
In a state of `` total war ``, the major भागीदार लगाई उनके संपूर्ण आर्थिक, औद्योगिक, और वैज्ञानिक सामर्थ्य at the सेवा of the युद्ध effort, erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources.
चिह्नित by द्रव्यमान मौतों of नागरिकों, सहित the holocaust और the तभी उपयोग of nuclear weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities.
These deaths make World War ii by दूर the deadliest विरोध in इंसान इतिहास.
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937, but the world war is generally said to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 साथ the आक्रमण of कैंडल by जर्मनी और subsequent घोषणाओं of युद्ध on जर्मनी by France and Britain.
From late 1939 to जल्दी 1941, in a श्रेणी of अभियान और treaties, जर्मनी formed the अक्ष गठबंधन साथ Italy, conquering or subduing much of continental Europe.
following the molotov–ribbentrop अनुबंध, जर्मनी और the सोवियत संघ partitioned और annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours, including Poland.
The United Kingdom and the अन्य सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल यहूद the तभी प्रमुख अलाइड शक्तियां continuing the लड़ो विरूद्ध the अक्ष, साथ लड़ाइयों लेने प्लेस in उत्तर Africa as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
In June 1941, the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, giving a start to the largest जमीन थिएटर of युद्ध in इतिहास, जिससे tied bas the प्रमुख भाग of the अक्ष ' सैन्य शक्तियां लिये the बाकी of the युद्ध.
In December 1941, Japan joined the Axis, attacked the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय territories in the प्रशांत समंदर, और quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific.
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942, after Japan lost a series of naval battles and European Axis सैनिकों यहूद पराजित in उत्तर अफ़्रीकी और, decisively, at stalingrad.
In 1943, with a series of German defeats in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, the अलाइड आक्रमण of इटली, और अमरीकी victories in the प्रशांत, the अक्ष खोया the पहल और undertook रणनीतिक रिट्रीट on all fronts.
In 1944, the Western Allies invaded France, while the Soviet Union regained सब of इसके territorial नुकसान और invaded जर्मनी और its allies.
दौरान 1944 और 1945 the संयुक्त राज्य पराजित the जापानी Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands.
The war in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by सोवियत और पॉलिश सैनिकों और the subsequent जर्मनी unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945.
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945, the संयुक्त राज्य dropped परमाणु बम on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 August, and Nagasaki on 9 August.
With an invasion of the Japanese द्वीपसमूह निकट, और the सोवियत संघ having घोषित युद्ध on जापानी by आक्रमणकारी मंचूरिया, जापानी surrendered on 15 अगस्त 1945, समाप्ति the युद्ध in एशिया और cementing the कुल victory of the Allies over the Axis.
World War II altered the राजनैतिक संरेखण और सोशल structure of the world.
The United Nations ( UN ) was established to फोस्टर अंतरराष्ट्रीय सहयोग और prevent भविष्य conflicts.
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States, the सोवियत संघ, चीन, the संयुक्त किंगडम, और france—became the स्थाई सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद.
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as rival superpowers, सेटिंग the स्टेज लिये the ठंडा युद्ध, जिससे lasted लिये the अगला 46 सालो.
Meanwhile, the influence of European great powers started to मनाही, जबकि the decolonisation of एशिया और अफ़्रीकी began.
Most देशों जिनकी उद्योग था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त स्थानांतरित towards economic recovery.
Political integration, especially in Europe, उभरा as an प्रयत्न to stabilise postwar संबंध और लड़ो अधिक effectively in the Cold War.
A limited liability कम्पनी ( llc ) is a लचीली रूप of एंटरप्राइज़ कि मिश्रणों तत्व of साझेदारी and corporate structures.
Note than an llc is नहीं a निगम, और कॉलिंग an llc a निगम is technically incorrect.
An LLC is a विधिक रूप of कम्पनी कि provides सीमित देयता to इसके स्वामी in the विशाल majority of United States jurisdictions.
LLCs do नहीं need to be व्यवस्थित for profit.
पाँच k-cups
the अंदर of a प्रयुक्त k-cup, साथ the top foil and the used coffee grounds removed.
इस shows the फिल्टर inside the K-Cup.
K-Cup portion packs are used साथ keurig or अन्य सिंगल कप brewing प्रणालियों to काढ़ा a कप of कॉफी, tea, or hot chocolate.
Each K-Cup is a प्लास्टिक संग्राहक साथ a कॉफी फिल्टर inside.
Ground कॉफी सेम हैं packed in the k-cup और sealed air-tight with a combination plastic and foil lid.
When the k-cup is लगाई in a keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the K-Cup and forces hot water under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug.
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to कॉफी roasters और चाय makers ऐसे as ग्रीन पहाड़ कॉफी roasters, diedrich/ ग्लोरिया जीन्स, टिमोथी 's संसार कॉफी, वैन houtte, हिरण कॉफी, celestial seasonings, bigelow चाय कम्पनी, twinings, Tully 's, Coffee People and Newman 's Own.
Keurig 's patents on the original k-cup डिज़ाइन समाप्त in सितंबर 2012.
Keurig holds at least one additional, still-active US patent and another patent अनुप्रयोग, detailing सुधार कि have subsequently महरूम incorporated in उनके k-cup डिज़ाइन.
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the gallet देखें कम्पनी in la chaux-de-fonds, स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
Gallet multichron astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph साथ 12 घंटा recoding सामर्थ्य, स्वचालित day, date, month, and moon phase display
a आधुनिक seiko क्वार्ट्ज wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement 7T92 ).
नागरिक atessa eco-drive atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4 area Radio Controlled reception ( North America, Europe, China, Japan ).
A chronograph is a विशिष्ट प्रकार of देखें कि is प्रयुक्त as a stopwatch combined with a display watch.
A basic chronograph रै an स्वतंत्र स्वीप दूसरी हाथ ; it can be प्रारंभ, रोका, और लौटे to zero by successive pressure on the stem.
Louis moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral घटक इंटरकनेक्ट, भाग of the पीसीआई लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः shortened to बस पीसीआई ) is a लोकल कंप्यूटर बस for attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions मिला on a प्रोसेसर बस, लकिन in a मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि is स्वतंत्र of कोई particular processor.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the प्रोसेसर बस, और हैं आबंटित पता in the प्रोसेसर 's पता space.
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, पुकारा a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification, or an विस्तार कार्ड कि fits into a slot.
The पीसीआई लोकल बस थी पहला implemented in ibm pc compatibles, जहाँ it विस्थापित the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently महरूम अपनाया लिये अन्य कंप्यूटर प्रकार.
PCI और pci-x हैं होने replaced by पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस, लकिन, सबसे motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई slots, which are sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the आकार और अंतरण of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत सम्पर्क ), विद्युत विशेषताएँ, बस timing, and protocols.
The specification can be खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई खास Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network ताश, ध्वनि ताश, modems, अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or सीरियल, tv ट्यूनर ताश और डिस्क controllers.
पीसीआई वीडियो ताश replaced isa और vesa ताश, जबतक growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI वीडियो ताश remain उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग साथ बूढ़ा pcs बगैर अगप or PCI Express slots.
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक सीरियल बस और पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस versions.
माइकल whitaker स्मिथ ( born अक्तूबर 7, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी समकालीन Christian musician, who has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts.
His biggest कामयाबी in मुख्यधारा म्यूज़िक थी in 1991 जब `` प्लेस in इस संसार '' hit no. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार विजेता, और रै अर्जित 40 Dove Awards.
Over the course of his career, he sold more than 13 million albums और अंकित 29 no. 1 hit गीतों, चौदह सुनहरा एल्बम, and five platinum albums.
Smith is an American Music पुरस्कार प्राप्तकर्ता ; he थी भी नामित एक of लोगों पत्रिका 's `` Most Beautiful People ''.
An American poster from the World War II -era that was प्रयुक्त to inform लोगों परिचय कया वे चाहिए do if वे suspect तोड़फोड़.
Sabotage is a deliberate कार्रवाई aimed at weakening another एंटिटी through subversion, रुकावट, disruption, or destruction.
In a workplace setting, sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of दक्षता generally निर्देशित at causing कुछ बदलें in कार्यस्थल conditions.
One who engages in तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur.
As a rule, saboteurs try to छिपाते उनके पहचान क्युकी of the consequences of उनके क्रियाएँ.
For example, whereas an environmental pressure group might be happy to be पहचाना साथ an अधिनियम of तोड़फोड़, it होता नहीं want the व्यक्तिगत पहचान of the perpetrators ज्ञात.
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private, independent college with an Evangelical ईसाई आधार कि focuses on शिक्षण शास्त्रीय उदार कला और सरकारी, स्तिथ in Purcellville, Virginia, United States.
पैट्रिक हेनरी is ज्ञात लिये इसके रूढ़िवादी धर्मान्तरण Christian focus.
As of April 17, 2007, the college was accredited by the Transnational संघ of ईसाई कॉलेजों और स्कूलों, a नेशनल faith-related accrediting संगठन पहचाना by the विभाग of शिक्षा and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.
The school was founded with the help of the Home स्कूल विधिक रक्षा संघ, और अभी serves as the मुख्यालय लिये the संगठन, with which it is still closely connected.
The history of television comprises the कार्य of numerous इंजीनियर्स और आविष्कारक in अनेक देशों over many decades.
The earliest proposal was in 1908, in a paper by A. A. campbell-swinton और postulated the उपयोग of कैथोड rays.
The first व्यावहारिक demonstrations of टेलीविज़न, however, यहूद विकसित using electromechanical methods to scan, transmit, and reproduce an image.
As electronic camera and display tubes यहूद perfected, electromechanical टेलीविज़न दिया रास्ता to all-electronic systems in nearly all applications.
L'Idéal Cinéma - Jacques Tati at aniche खोली नवम्बर 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active फिल्म theater in the world
A cinema in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A typical multiplex ( AMC Promenade 16 in वुडलैंड पहाड़ियाँ, लॉस एंजिल्स, U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema, movie house, film house, फिल्मी थिएटर or चित्र हाउस ) is a स्थान, प्रायः a भवन, लिये देखने films.
Most लकिन नहीं सब फिल्म थिएटर हैं वाणिज्यिक परिचालन केटरिंग to the general public, who attend by purchasing a ticket.
The फिल्म is प्रक्षिप्त साथ a फिल्म प्रोजेक्टर onto a large projection screen at the front of the auditorium.
Most movie theaters are अभी equipped लिये डिजिटल सिनेमा प्रक्षेप, निकालना the need to बनाएँ और transport a physical film print.
Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया नॉर्टन मालिक 's क्लबों on कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य रूट 41, near Creston.
A motorcycle club is a समूह of individuals जिनकी प्राथमिक ब्याज और क्रियाएँ involve motorcycles.
Lyme disease, Lyme borreliosis is an infectious बीमारी caused by at तनिक तीन प्रजाति of जीवाणु belonging to the genus borrelia.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the प्रमुख कारण of lyme बीमारी in उत्तर अमेरिका, whereas borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii cause most European cases.
The disease is नामित बाद the कस्बों of lyme और बूढ़ा lyme, कनेक्टिकट, यूएसए, जहाँ a क्रमांक of मामले यहूद identified in 1975.
Although Allen Steere realized that lyme बीमारी थी a tick-borne बीमारी in 1978, the कारण of the बीमारी remained a रहस्य जबतक 1981, जब B. burgdorferi थी पहचाना by Willy Burgdorfer.
Lyme disease is the most आम tick-borne बीमारी in the Northern Hemisphere.
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the काटना of संक्रमित ticks belonging to a few प्रजाति of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
Early symptoms may include fever, headache, थकान, अवसाद, और a characteristic गोलाकार स्किन खाज पुकारा erythema migrans ( EM ).
बाएँ अनुपचारित, बाद लक्षण may involve the joints, दिल, and central nervous system.
In most cases, the infection and its symptoms हैं eliminated by एंटीबायोटिक, विशेषकर if the बीमारी is treated early.
Delayed or inadequate treatment can lead to more गंभीर लक्षण, जिससे can be disabling और मुश्किल to treat.
Penises of minke whales on display at the आइसलैंडिक phallological संग्रहालय
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a सामान्य पद लिये the अंगों साथ जिससे पुरूष और उभयलिंगी पशु introduce शुक्राणु into receptive females during copulation.
Such organs occur in many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, but males do not bear a penis in every animal प्रजाति, और in those प्रजाति in जिससे the पुरूष करता भालू a so-called शिश्न, the penes in the various species are not necessarily homologous.
For example, the शिश्न of a स्तनधारी is at सबसे analogous to the शिश्न of a male insect or barnacle.
the पद शिश्न applies to अनेक reproductive intromittent अंगों, लकिन नहीं to सब ; लिये उदाहरण the intromittent organ of most cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, and male spiders use their pedipalps.
In most species of पशु in जिससे वहीँ is an अंग कि might reasonably be वर्णित as a शिश्न, it रै no प्रमुख फलन अन्य than intromission, or at तनिक conveying the शुक्राणु to the मादा, लकिन in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal part of the urethra, which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires.
Artists and repertoire ( A & R ) is the division of a record label or music publishing कम्पनी कि is जिम्मेदार लिये हुनर बालचर और overseeing the कलाकारी विकास of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों and/or songwriters.
It also अधिनियमों as a liaison between कलाकारों और the रिकार्ड लेबल or प्रकाशन कम्पनी ; प्रत्येक कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the point of album release is generally considered under the purview of, and responsibility of, A & R.
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial इकाई और u.S. प्रथागत इकाई बराबर to one-eighth of a मील, समतुल्य to 220 गज, 660 फीट, 40 छड़, or 10 जंजीरों.
The exact मान of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking countries.
Five furlongs are approximately 1 किलोमीटर ( 1.0058 km is a करीब सन्निकटन ).
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the परिधि of the धरती ( साथ the ग्रेट वृत्त coincident साथ the मध्याह्न of देशांतर गुजर through पेरिस ), the परिधि of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
CR2032 लिथियम बटन कोशिका battery
Lithium 9 volt, aa, & aaa आकार
Lithium batteries हैं डिस्पोजेबल ( प्राथमिक ) बैटरी कि have लिथियम मेटल or लिथियम compounds as an anode.
They stand apart इससे अन्य बैटरी in उनके ऊँची चार्ज घनत्व ( long जीवन ) and high cost per unit.
Depending on the design and रासायनिक यौगिकों प्रयुक्त, लिथियम कोशिकाएं can उपज voltages इससे 1.5 v ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices.
Raymond `` Ray '' Charles Jack lamontagne ( ; born जून 18, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne has released four studio एल्बम, ट्रबल, तक the सूर्य turns ब्लैक, गपशप in the अनाज and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise.
He was born in New हैम्पशायर और थी प्रेरित to बनाएँ म्यूज़िक बाद सुनना an album by Stephen Stills.
Critics have compared lamontagne 's म्यूज़िक to कि of the बैंड, Van Morrison, Nick Drake, and Tim Buckley.
He lives in मैसाचुसेट्स साथ उसके बीवी और दो children.
When the Wind Blows is a अनोखा by जेम्स Patterson.
It is the precursor to the झील हाउस और प्रेरित the Maximum Ride series.
The novel is currently set to be adapted into a फिल्म.
The पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स यहूद संस्थापित in 1933.
Over the course of the team 's history, the team has had अनेक लोगो जबकि wearing वस्तुतः the वही वर्दी over the सालो, साथ हल्का परिवर्तन बना to दे the वर्दी an अद्यतनीकृत look.
The team colors, वर्दी, और लोगो हैं प्रायः क्रमित as being among the best in the NFL.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an ऑनलाइन सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा, जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब दिए to विद्यार्थी at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin, एंड्रयू mccollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's सदस्यता थी initially सीमित by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, लकिन थी विस्तारित to अन्य कॉलेजों in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support लिये विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने to ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता of the साईट.
Users must register before using the site, after which वे may बनाएँ a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल, add अन्य उपयोक्ता as मित्रों, और एक्सचेंज संदेश, सहित स्वचालित notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, school or college, or other विशेषताएँ, और categorize उनके मित्रों into सूचियाँ ऐसे as `` लोगों इससे कार्य '' or `` बंद मित्रों ''.
As of September 2012, फेसबुक रै over एक billion active users.
According to a May 2011 उपभोक्ता रिपोर्ट्स सर्वेक्षण, वहीँ हैं 7.5 लाख children अंतर्गत 13 साथ खाते और 5 million under 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in फेसबुक, और जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख of उसके अपना धन to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा by विश्वव्यापी monthly active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on धरती किया we stalk हमारी exes, याद हमारी co-workers ' जन्मदिन, कीड़ा हमारी मित्रों, और खेल a rousing खेल of scrabulous पहले Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, राज्य कि फेसबुक रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य, resulting in विशाल amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 लाख मासिक अद्वितीय u.S. विज़िटर in may 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in अप्रैल 2010 an अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a फेसबुक account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth प्रारंभ to स्टाल in कुछ regions, साथ the साईट खोने 7 लाख क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering on फ़रवरी 1, 2012, और थी headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the पब्लिक और व्यापार on the नैस्डैक on may 18, 2012.
अर्विन योहानेस eugen ख़बरों ( 15 नवम्बर 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly known as The Desert Fox ( Wüstenfuchs, ), was a German Field Marshal of World War II.
He earned the आदर of दोनो उसके अपना सैनिकों और the enemies he fought.
Rommel was a highly decorated officer in World युद्ध i और थी awarded the डालना le mérite लिये उसके कारनामे on the Italian front.
In संसार युद्ध ii, he further विशिष्ट खुद as the कमांडर of the 7th Panzer Division during the 1940 invasion of France.
His leadership of जर्मनी और इतालवी शक्तियां in the उत्तर अफ़्रीकी अभियान स्थापित उसे as एक of the सबसे समर्थ कमांडरों of the war, and earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox.
He is regarded as एक of the सबसे skilled कमांडरों of मरुस्थल warfare in the conflict.
He later commanded the जर्मनी शक्तियां opposing the अलाइड cross-channel invasion in Normandy.
His कार्यभार never took उसे to the पूर्वी Front.
Rommel is regarded as having महरूम a दयालु और पेशेवर अधिकारी.
उसके afrika कोर्प्स थी never अभियुक्त of युद्ध अपराधों, और सैनिको captured during his Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
Orders to kill Jewish soldiers, नागरिकों और captured कमांडो यहूद उपेक्षित.
Late in the war, Rommel was linked to the षड्यंत्र to assassinate एडोल्फ हिटलर.
Since ख़बरों थी a नेशनल नायिका, हिटलर desired to eliminate him quietly.
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill, in वापसी लिये आश्वासनों कि ख़बरों 's परिवार होता नहीं be persecuted following उसके death.
Stained glass प्रतिनिधित्व of the पावन स्पिरिट as a dove, c. 1660.
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors, बाद elaborated by पाँच बौद्धिक virtues और चार अन्य समूह of नैतिक विशेषताएँ.
They are : wisdom, understanding, wonder and awe ( fear of the Lord ), counsel, ज्ञान, fortitude, और परहेज़गारी ( reverence ).
the धरती दिन ध्वज, the नवीनतम प्रस्ताव of John McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event, मनाये on अप्रैल 22, on जिससे कार्यक्रम हैं आयोजित विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate support लिये पर्यावरणीय protection.
It was first celebrated in 1970, और is अभी समन्वित globally by the धरती दिन संजाल, और मनाये in more than 192 countries each year.
In 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in San फ्रांसिस्को, the तिथि प्रस्तावित थी कूच 21, 1970, the पहला दिन of वसन्त in the उत्तरी hemisphere.
This day of nature 's equipoise थी बाद मंजूर in a उदघोषणा हस्ताक्षरित by सचिव सामान्य u thant at the United Nations.
A माह बाद a पृथक धरती दिन थी संस्थापित by संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर gaylord नेल्सन as an environmental teach-in first held on April 22, 1970.
Nelson was later awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता पुरस्कार in recognition of his work.
While this April 22 धरती दिन थी केन्द्रित on the संयुक्त राज्य, an संगठन शुभारम्भ by डेनिस हेज़, जो थी the असली नेशनल समन्वयक in 1970, took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations.
Numerous communities celebrate धरती सप्ताह, an संपूर्ण सप्ताह of क्रियाएँ focused on environmental issues.
Iodine is a chemical element with symbol i और परमाणु क्रमांक 53.
The name is इससे यूनानी ioeidēs, अर्थ बैंगनी or जामुनी, due to the रंग of elemental iodine vapor.
आयोडीन और इसके यौगिकों हैं primarily प्रयुक्त in पोषण, और industrially in the उत्पादन of एसिटिक एसिड and certain polymers.
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number, low toxicity, and ease of अनुलग्नक to सशुल्क यौगिकों have बना it a भाग of अनेक x-ray कंट्रास्ट सामग्री in आधुनिक आयुर्विज्ञान.
आयोडीन रै तभी एक stable isotope.
A क्रमांक of आयोडीन radioisotopes हैं भी used in medical applications.
Iodine is मिला on धरती मुख्यतः as the अत्यधिक water-soluble आयोडाइड आयन, I−, which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools.
Like the other हैलोजन्स, फ़्री आयोडीन occurs मुख्यतः as a diatomic अणु i2, और तब only momentarily after being oxidized from iodide by an oxidant like free oxygen.
In the ब्रह्मांड और on धरती, आयोडीन 's ऊँची परमाणु क्रमांक makes it a अपेक्षाकृत rare element.
However, इसके उपस्थिति in समंदर जल रै दिए it a role in biology.
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by life in biological कृत्यों ( तभी टंगस्टन, employed in एंजाइमों by a few प्रजाति of जीवाणु, is heavier ).
Iodine 's rarity in अनेक soils, due to आरंभिक कम प्रचुरता as a crust-element, और भी leaching of घुलनशील आयोडाइड by rainwater, has led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations.
Iodine कमियां affects परिचय दो अरब लोगों और is the अग्रणी preventable cause of intellectual disabilities.
Iodine is required by higher animals, which use it to synthesize थायराइड हार्मोन, जिससे contain the तत्व.
Because of this function, radioisotopes of आयोडीन हैं concentrated in the थायराइड ग्रंथि along with nonradioactive iodine.
If inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, which has a ऊँची परिवर्द्धन उत्पाद उपज, concentrates in the थायराइड, लकिन is easily remedied साथ पोटैशियम iodide treatment.
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of attempting to influence decisions बना by officials in the सरकारी, सबसे प्रायः विधायक or सदस्यों of नियामक agencies.
Lobbying is done by many different types of people and organized समूह, सहित individuals in the निजी सेक्टर, corporations, fellow विधायक or सरकारी officials, or वकालत समूह ( interest groups ).
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies, अर्थ a वोटर or bloc of मतदाता भीतर उसके or उसके चुनावी ज़िला, or नहीं ; वे may engage in lobbying as a business, or not.
Professional lobbyists हैं लोगों जिनकी कारोबार is trying to influence विधान on निमित्त of a group or individual who hires them.
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can भी लॉबी as an अधिनियम of स्वयंसेवा or as a छोटी भाग of उनके सामान्य जॉब ( लिये उदाहरण, a सीईओ बैठक साथ a प्रतिनिधि परिचय a प्रोजेक्ट महत्वपूर्ण to his/her कम्पनी, or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ).
Governments often define and regulate व्यवस्थित समूह lobbying कि रै become influential.
The आचार और नैतिकता of lobbying are.
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt, जब the implication is कि लोगों साथ अत्यधिक socioeconomic शक्ति हैं corrupting the विधि ( टेढ़ी it दूर इससे निष्पक्षता ) in अनुक्रम to serve उनके own conflict of interest.
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' रूचि हैं विधिवत defended विरूद्ध अन्य ' भ्रष्टाचार, or भी बस बनाना यकीनन कि अल्पसंख्यक रूचि हैं fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority.
For example, a medical association, or a trade association of health insurance कंपनियाँ, may लॉबी a विधानमंडल in अनुक्रम to counteract the influence of तम्बाकू कंपनियाँ, in जिससे मामला the lobbying होता be viewed by सबसे लोगों as जायज ( duly defending against others ' corruption ).
The difficulty in drawing objective lines between which lobbyists हैं `` शुभ lobbyists '' और जिससे ones हैं `` ख़राब ones '' is compounded by the cleverness साथ जिससे lobbyists or उनके clients can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At heart, the effort to influence विधान is a शक्ति संघर्ष.
As in other forms of power struggle, such as युद्ध or विधि प्रवर्तन, motives दायरा इससे to self-defense to fighting for justice, and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization.
Sunshine of अपना प्रेम गिटार रिफ
Cream were a 1960s अंग्रेजों चट्टान supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist जोकर ब्रूस, guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton, and drummer Ginger Baker.
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues चट्टान, मुश्किल चट्टान और साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, combining the psychedelia-themed गीत, eric क्लैप्टन 's ब्लूज़ गिटार playing और vocals, जोकर ब्रूस 's आवाज़ और prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming.
The group 's third album, पहियों of आग, थी the संसार 's पहला platinum-selling दोगुना album.
मलाई हैं widely regarded as होने the world 's first successful supergroup.
in उनके करियर, वे बेची over 15 million albums worldwide.
Cream 's म्यूज़िक शामिल गीतों आधारित on परंपरागत ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` क्रॉसरोड्स `` और `` spoonful ``, और आधुनिक ब्लूज़ such as `` Born Under a Bad Sign ``, as well as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew ``, `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK, number 11 ), `` सनशाइन of अपना प्रेम `` ( us, क्रमांक 5 ), `` श्वेत रूम `` ( us, क्रमांक 6 ), `` क्रॉसरोड्स '' ( us, number 28 ), and `` Badge `` ( UK, number 18 ).
Cream made a significant impact on the लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक of the समय, और, साथ साथ जिमि हेंड्रिक्स, और टेरी कठ of शिकागो, popularised the उपयोग of the wah-wah pedal.
They provided a भारी yet technically निपुण musical थीम कि foreshadowed और बहकावे the emergence of अंग्रेजों bands ऐसे as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s.
The बैंड 's सजीव प्रदर्शन बहकावे प्रगतिशील rock acts such as Rush.
मलाई यहूद inducted into the चट्टान और Roll Hall of Fame in 1993.
वे यहूद शामिल in दोनो रोलिंग स्टोन और vh1 's सूचियाँ of the `` 100 Greatest Artists of All Time ''.
They were also क्रमित क्रमांक 16 on vh1 's `` 100 महानतम कलाकारों of Hard Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters, and starring ricki झील, सन्नी बोनो, डिब्बी हैरी, माइकल st. जेरार्ड, shawn थॉम्पसन, colleen fitzpatrick, जेरी stiller, and in his last film role, Divine.
Hairspray was a dramatic departure from Waters ' पहले works, साथ a much broader intended दर्शक.
In fact, Hairsprays PG is the mildest दरजा a waters फिल्मी रै प्राप्त ; सबसे of उसके पिछला films were rated X by the MPAA.
Set in 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, the film revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था ट्रेसी turnblad as वो pursues स्टारडम as a नर्तकी on a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation.
hairspray थी तभी a मॉडरेट कामयाबी upon इसके आरंभिक नाट्य release, earning a modest gross of $ 8 million.
However, it managed to attract a larger दर्शक on घर वीडियो in the जल्दी 1990s और became a cult classic.
Most critics praised the फिल्मी, हालांकि कुछ यहूद displeased साथ the overall campiness.
In 2002, the film थी adapted into a ब्रॉडवे musical of the वही नाम, जिससे जीती आठ Tony Awards, including Best Musical in 2003.
A second फिल्मी संस्करण of hairspray, an अनुकूलन of the स्टेज musical, थी भी released by नई लकीर सिनेमा in 2007, which included many changes of scripted items from the original.
The film also ranks # 444 on साम्राज्य पत्रिका 's 2008 सूची of the 500 greatest movies of all time.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक देह अंतर्गत a आम नाम, ढांचा, और doctrine भीतर christianity.
Some groups included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर considers itself the एक सच्चा गिरिजाघर और the अपोस्टोलिक देखिए, and as pre-denominational ).
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being पुकारा a denomination और do नहीं have कोई औपचारिक denominational ढांचा, प्राधिकार, or record-keeping परे the लोकल सभा ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category.
Some groups are विशाल ( e.g. catholics, lutherans, anglicans or baptists ), जबकि अन्य हैं बस a few छोटी चर्च, और in सबसे मामले the सापेक्ष size is not evident in this list.
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity, Pietism, Evangelicalism, Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes क्रॉस denominational लाइनों, or in कुछ मामले बनाएँ नई denominations आउट of दो or अधिक continuing समूह, ( as is the case for many United and uniting churches, for example ).
Such subtleties और complexities हैं नहीं clearly depicted here.
Major विभाजन भीतर christianity.
Note : This is नहीं a पूरा सूची, लकिन aims to provide a comprehensible अवलोकन of the विविधता among denominations of Christianity.
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations, many of which can not be verified to be significant, only those denominations साथ विकिपीडिया आलेख होगा be सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम to ensure कि सब प्रविष्टियां on इस सूची हैं notable and verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, and comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly पुकारा ईसाई, मतभिन्नता arising primarily इससे doctrinal मतभेद between समूह.
For the purpose of सादगी, इस सूची is intended to प्रतिबिंबित the self-understanding of प्रत्येक denomination.
Explanations of different opinions concerning उनके औकात as ईसाई denominations can be मिला at उनके संबंधित आलेख.
There is no official recognition in सबसे भाग of the संसार लिये धार्मिक लाशें, और वहीँ is no आधिकारिक clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies.
Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other churches चाहिए be labeled साथ pejorative शर्तें ऐसे as `` cult '', or परिचय whether इस or कि समूह enjoys कुछ माप of respectability.
Such considerations प्रायः vary इससे प्लेस to प्लेस, जहाँ एक धार्मिक समूह may आनंद बहुमत औकात in एक प्रदेश, लकिन be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world.
Inclusion on this list करता नहीं indicate कोई निर्णय परिचय the आकार, महत्व, or character of a group or its members.
1804 map of `` louisiana ``, edged on the west by the Rocky Mountains.
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` बिक्री of louisiana '' ) थी the अधिग्रहण by the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana.
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) प्लस रद्दीकरण of debts लायक 18 लाख francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), लिये a कुल योग of 15 लाख डॉलर ( कम than 3 सेंट per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars, less than 42 cents per acre ).
The Louisiana territory encompassed सब or भाग of 15 उपस्थित u.S. राज्य and two Canadian provinces.
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the मिसिसिपी नदी ; सबसे of उत्तर डकोटा ; सबसे of दक्षिण डकोटा ; northeastern नई मैक्सिको ; उत्तरी टेक्सास ; the portions of मोंटाना, व्योमिंग, और कोलोराडो ईस्ट of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; louisiana वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी, सहित the नगर of नई ऑरलियन्स ; और छोटी portions of जमीन कि होता आखिरकार become भाग of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
France नियंत्रित इस विशाल क्षेत्रफल इससे 1699 जबतक 1762, the साल it दिया the territory to इसके ally Spain.
Under Napoleon Bonaparte, France took back the territory in 1800 in the आशा of भवन an साम्राज्य in उत्तर America.
A स्लेव विद्रोह in हैती और an impending युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन, however, led फ़्रांस to लापरवाही ये योजनाएँ और बेचें the संपूर्ण territory to the United States, who had originally intended only to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands.
The खरीदें of the territory of louisiana took प्लेस during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson.
At the time, the purchase faced घरेलू विपक्ष क्युकी it थी विचार to be unconstitutional.
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory, Jefferson decided to go ahead with the खरीदें वैसे in अनुक्रम to हटाएँ फ़्रांस 's उपस्थिति in the प्रदेश और to protect दोनो u.S. व्यापार अभिगम to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River.
Ceremony at प्लेस d'armes, नई ऑरलियन्स अंकन ट्रांसफ़र of louisiana to the United States, 10 March 1804, as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup.
`` कूल झटका '' is a लोकप्रिय सोंग लिखा by डोनाल्ड storball and originally performed by The Capitols.
Released in 1966, it पहुँचे no. 2 on the अमरीकी r & b चार्ट और No. 7 on the pop chart.
The backing track for this song was actually recorded ( secretly ) by the motown हाउस बैंड the दुर्गंध Brothers.
Per one of the Funk Brothers, the सोंग थी originally to be पुकारा `` pimp झटका. ''
This was taken from watching पड़ोस pimps, जो होता नृत्य in the क्लब, लकिन यहूद too `` कूल '' to do the jerk like regular folks.
Their version थी subsequently नामित `` the pimp झटका. ''
The producer was भयभीत कि a सोंग साथ the शब्द pimp in the शीर्षक होता be बैन or नहीं प्राप्त much धनात्मक attention, and had the title changed to its current form.
The Go-Go 's, Todd Rundgren, Big Trouble, Human यौन जवाब, the la de da 's, the सृष्टि, और The Coasters have covered the song.
Todd Rundgren किया उसके संस्करण in an विषम समय हस्ताक्षर ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky feel to the song.
The Go-Go 's covered the सोंग लिये उनके 1982 एल्बम अवकाश और बाद re-recorded it लिये उनके 1990 album Greatest.
In the feature फिल्मी घर अलोन 2 : खोया in नई यॉर्क, ताऊ फ़्रैंक ( gerry bamman ) गाती `` Cool Jerk '' in the shower.
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` Do the कूल चाबुक '' ) is प्रयुक्त in कूल चाबुक commercials.
A रिकॉर्डिंग of `` कूल झटका '' by रिकार्डो रे is प्रदर्शित in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
The song features in the film खड़ा in the साए of motown, performed by the दुर्गंध भाइयो साथ सीसे vocals by Bootsy Collins.
The song is सुना briefly in the एनिमेटेड विशेषता, Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted.
Despite this कारण, it is सूचीबद्ध in कुछ विसंगतियाँ of the फिल्मी 's soundtrack.
A league is a unit of length ( or, rarely, क्षेत्रफल ).
It was long common in यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका, लकिन it is no longer an आधिकारिक ईकाई in any nation.
The league originally referred to the अलहदा a व्यक्ति could चलना in an घंटा.
Since the Middle आयु, अनेक मान have महरूम निर्दिष्ट in अनेक countries.
In the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of nautical दूरियाँ, the 3 मील ( 4.8 km ) अलहदा corresponds to कैसा दूर an निरीक्षक of औसत ऊँचाई ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level.
Thus, a जलयान traveling एक `` लीग '' रै पहुँचे कया थी previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon.
The lack of a historical and global standard लिये the सटीक माप of a `` लीग '' can be accounted लिये by the परिवर्तनीय उन्नयन of the निरीक्षक ( i.e., sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ).
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State, a dominion of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल, having seceded इससे the संयुक्त किंगडम under the Anglo-Irish Treaty.
It comprises 26 of आयरलैंड 's 32 काउंटी.
Since 1949 it has existed as the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड.
From its foundation, the Irish Free State was embroiled in a सिविल युद्ध between राष्ट्रवादियों supporting the सन्धि और प्रतिद्वंद्वियों जो समर्थित a republic.
The pro-Treaty side, संगठित as cumann na ngaedheal उभरा विजयी इससे the विरोध और won subsequent elections.
They formed the government of the state until 1932, जब वे शांतिपूर्वक हात over शक्ति to the anti-treaty गुट in fianna fáil, जो defeated them in an election.
The Irish state, despite its हिंसक beginnings, रै remained a उदार लोकतंत्र throughout इसके अस्तित्व.
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the कड़ी साथ ब्रिटेन स्थापित अंतर्गत the सन्धि और आयरलैंड 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain.
In 1948 Ireland formally left the British राष्ट्रमंडल और अपनाया the शीर्षक of `` गणतंत्र ''.
In the economic गोला, the आयरिश राज्य रै था a मिश्रित प्रदर्शन.
On independence, it was एक of the wealthier देशों in यूरोपीय प्रति सिर of जनसांख्यिकी.
However it also inherited इससे अंग्रेजों नियम the समस्याएं of बेरोजगारी, emigration, uneven geographical development and lack of a native industrial base.
For much of its history, the राज्य struggled to rectify ये समस्याएं.
Particular peaks of करणों यहूद अंकित दौरान the लेट 1930s, 1950s और 1980s, when the Irish economy recorded little growth.
In the 1930s, Fianna fáil सरकारें attempted to बनाएँ आयरिश घरेलू उद्योग using subsidies and protective tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these policies यहूद dropped in पक्ष of फ़्री व्यापार साथ चयनित देशों और प्रोत्साहित of विदेशी निवेश with low taxes.
This थी विस्तारित जब आयरलैंड डाला the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ in 1972.
In the 1990s and 2000s, Ireland experienced an economic boom known as the सेल्टिक बाघ, in जिससे the देश 's जीडीपी surpassed अनेक of इसके European neighbours.
आव्रजन भी surpassed करणों, bringing the state 's population up to over 4 million.
However, since 2008, आयरलैंड रै अनुभवी a कठोर संकट in the बैंकिंग सेक्टर और साथ sovereign debt.
the resultant आर्थिक slump रै deepened the प्रभाव of the world recession on Ireland.
From 1937 to 1998, the आयरिश संविधान शामिल a अर्जी on उत्तरी आयरलैंड as a part of the national territory.
however, the राज्य भी opposed और प्रयुक्त इसके सुरक्षा शक्तियां विरूद्ध those armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army, who tried to unite Ireland by force.
इस occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s और 1980s and has continued on a reduced scale.
Irish governments meanwhile tried to दलाली an अनुबंध to the विरोध ज्ञात as the परेशानियों भीतर उत्तरी आयरलैंड from 1968 to the late 1990s.
The British government officially recognised the right of the Irish सरकारी to be a पार्टी to the उत्तरी negotiations in the anglo-irish अनुबंध of 1985.
In 1998, as part of the Good Friday Agreement, the आयरिश संविधान थी altered by referendum to हटाएँ the territorial अर्जी to उत्तरी आयरलैंड और बजाय extend the सही of आयरिश नागरिकता to all the people of the island should they wish to have it.
John Quincy Adams ( July 11, 1767february 23, 1848 ) थी the छठे अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1825–1829 ).
He served as American राजनयिक, सीनेटर, और congressional प्रतिनिधि.
He was a सदस्य of the federalist, democratic-republican, नेशनल Republican, and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties.
Adams was the son of पूर्व अध्यक्ष जॉन एडम्स और अबीगैल Adams.
As a diplomat, Adams played an important role in negotiating अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties, सबसे notably the सन्धि of ghent, which ended the War of 1812.
As Secretary of State, he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's उत्तरी किनारा साथ कनाडा, negotiated साथ स्पेन the annexation of फ्लोरिडा, और authored the मुनरो Doctrine.
Historians सहमत he थी एक of the महानतम राजनयिकों और secretaries of state in American history.
As president, he sought to modernize the अमरीकी अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रचारित education.
एडम्स enacted a भाग of उसके कार्यसूची और paid off much of the national debt.
He was stymied by a कॉंग्रेस नियंत्रित by उसके दुश्मनों, और उसके कमी of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him.
He खोया उसके 1828 बोली लिये re-election to Andrew Jackson.
In doing so, he became the first अध्यक्ष चूंकि उसके पिता to serve a सिंगल term.
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's विदेशी नीति in लकीर साथ उसके ardently राष्ट्रवादी प्रतिबद्धता to अमेरिका 's रिपब्लिकन values.
More recently होवे ( 2007 ) portrayed एडम्स as the exemplar और moral leader in an era of modernization.
During Adams ' lifetime, technological नवप्रवर्तनों और नई अर्थात् of संचार स्प्रेड संदेश of धार्मिक पुनरुद्धार, सोशल reform, and party politics.
Goods, money, and people traveled अधिक rapidly और efficiently than ever before.
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts बाद leaving दफ्तर, सेवारत लिये the पिछला 17 सालो of उसके जीवन साथ दूर वृहद acclamation than he था हासिल as अध्यक्ष.
He is, so far, the only president later निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( हालांकि जॉन टायलर थी निर्वाचित to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ).
एनिमेटेड by उसके growing revulsion विरूद्ध गुलामी, एडम्स became a leading opponent of the Slave Power.
He predicted that if a civil युद्ध यहूद to ब्रेक आउट, the अध्यक्ष could abolish slavery by using his war powers.
एडम्स भी पूर्वानुमानित the संघ 's विच्छेद over the गुलामी समस्या, लकिन कहा कि if the दक्षिण became independent there would be a series of bloody slave revolts.
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a संस्करण of the अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर वेब ब्राउजर इससे microsoft.
It was released to the पब्लिक on कूच 14, 2011.
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a प्रमुख out-of-band संस्करण कि is नहीं tied to the रिलीज अनुसूची of कोई particular संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, unlike previous versions.
It is the first version since अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 2 to नहीं be bundled साथ a खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली, हालांकि कुछ oems have संस्थापित it साथ खिड़कियाँ 7 on their PCs, as well as new Windows 7 laptops.
The system requirements for Internet एक्सप्लोरर 9 हैं खिड़कियाँ 7, खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008 r2, खिड़कियाँ विस्टा सेवा पैक 2 or खिड़कियाँ Server 2008 SP2 with the Platform Update.
Windows XP and पहले हैं नहीं समर्थित.
Internet एक्सप्लोरर 9 is the पिछला संस्करण of अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर to be समर्थित on Windows Vista.
दोनो ia-32 और x64 builds are available.
Internet Explorer 9 supports अनेक सीएसएस 3 गुण, अंतःस्थापित आईसीसी v2 or v4 रंग प्रोफ़ाइल support via खिड़कियाँ रंग प्रणाली, और रै improved JavaScript performance.
It is the पिछला of the पाँच प्रमुख वेब browsers to implement support लिये Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ).
It also features hardware-accelerated ग्राफिक्स रेंडरिंग using direct2d, hardware-accelerated टेक्स्ट रेंडरिंग using directwrite, hardware-accelerated वीडियो रेंडरिंग using मीडिया न्यास, imaging support provided by Windows Imaging Component, and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline.
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the html5 वीडियो और ऑडियो टैग और the वेब खोलें फ़ॉन्ट स्वरूप.
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid और पीड़ा reliever पहला marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company.
It was developed by मौरिस treener, सिर केमिस्ट at Miles, in Elkhart, Indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches, pains, सूजन, ज्वर, सिरदर्द, heartburn, खट्टा पेट, अपच, और hangovers, जबकि neutralizing excess stomach acid.
It थी शुभारम्भ in 1931.
A spin-off of alka-seltzer बना to relieve जुकाम और फ्लू, alka-seltzer प्लस, थी later introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin रूपांतर, alka-mints, थी introduced in 1994 and discontinued in 1997.
alka-seltzer is फिलहाल स्वामित्व by बायर Schering Pharma AG, Germany.
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications बेची over the काउंटर और लिया by अर्थात् of rapidly dissolving टैबलेट that form a carbonated solution in water.
Cherry अलका seltzer प्लस टैब्लेट dissolving in water
चित्र प्रर्दशित the छह सबसे आम speleothems with labels.
enlarge to दृश्य लेबल्स.
A stalactite (, ; from the Greek stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to ड्रिप '', और अर्थ `` कि जिससे drips '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem ( द्वितीयक खनिज ) कि hangs इससे the छत of चूना caves.
it is a प्रकार of dripstone.
The सम्बन्धित गठन on the मंजिल of the गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalagmite.
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an अकादमिक उपाधि बजाय of स्पेलिंग आउट the शीर्षक in पूरा, ऐसे as in सन्दर्भ books like Who 's Who and on business cards.
Many डिग्री have अधिक than एक abbreviation.
In the UK, it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations लिये डिग्री साथ पूरा stops ( e.g. `` बीएससी '' बल्कि than `` B.Sc. ``.
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into large and पृथक populations or समूह by anatomical, सांस्कृतिक, जातीय, जेनेटिक, भौगोलिक, ऐतिहासिक, भाषाई, धार्मिक, or social affiliation.
First used to denote नेशनल संबद्धों, the पद began to be प्रयुक्त to सुनाना to शारीरिक traits in the 17th century.
In the early 20th century the term was प्रायः प्रयुक्त, in a taxonomic भाव, to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype.
While biologists sometimes use the concept of race to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits, others in the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ सुझाएँ कि the विचार of रेस प्रायः is प्रयुक्त in a भोली or simplistic रास्ता, i.e. कि among इंसानो, रेस रै no taxonomic significance : सब जीना इंसानो belong to the वही प्रजाति, होमो sapiens and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions and groupings of दौड़ vary over समय, involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals आधारित on आभास traits.
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage जातिगत स्पष्टीकरण लिये सामूहिक differentiation in दोनो physical and behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the ideologies and theories that grew आउट of the कार्य of 19th-century विज्ञानियों और physiologists रै led to the उपयोग of the शब्द रेस itself becoming problematic.
Although still used in सामान्य contexts, it is अभी प्रायः replaced by अन्य शब्द जिससे हैं कम अस्पष्ट और emotionally चार्ज, ऐसे as populations, people ( s ), ethnic groups or communities depending on context.
लुसी स्टोन ( अगस्त 13, 1818 – अक्तूबर 19, 1893 ) थी a prominent अमरीकी abolitionist और suffragist, and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women.
In 1847, Stone became the first woman इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to earn a कॉलेज उपाधि.
She spoke out for women 's अधिकारों और विरूद्ध गुलामी at a समय जब महिलाओं यहूद हतोत्साहित और prevented from public speaking.
स्टोन थी the पहला अंकित अमरीकी स्त्री to retain her own last name after marriage.
Stone 's organizational activities लिये the कारण of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों yielded ठोस gains in the मुश्किल political environment of the 19th century.
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's Rights सम्मेलन और वो समर्थित और sustained it annually साथ with a number of other local, state and regional activist conventions.
Stone spoke in सामने of a क्रमांक of विधान लाशें to promote laws giving more rights to women.
She assisted in establishing the स्त्री 's नेशनल वफ़ादार लीग to सहायता pass the तेरहवीं amendment और thereby abolish गुलामी, बाद जिससे वो helped रूप the largest समूह of like-minded महिलाओं 's अधिकारों reformers, the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association, which worked for decades at the state level in favor of women 's right to vote.
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's rights, publishing and distributing speeches by herself और अन्य, और सम्मेलन कार्यवाही.
In the long-running and influential स्त्री 's जर्नल, a साप्ताहिक periodical कि वो स्थापित और प्रचारित, स्टोन aired दोनो her own and differing views about women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning स्टार of the स्त्री 's अधिकारों गति '', स्टोन वितरित a वाक जिससे sparked सुसान B. Anthony to take up the cause of women 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was the first person by whom the heart of the अमरीकी पब्लिक थी deeply stirred on the स्त्री सवाल. ''
Together, Anthony, stanton, और स्टोन have महरूम पुकारा the 19th सदी `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
In finance, a bond is an instrument of indebtedness of the बंध जारीकर्ता to the धारकों.
It is a debt security, under जिससे the जारीकर्ता owes the धारकों a कर्ज़ और, depending on the शर्तें of the बंध, is obliged to अदा उन्हें ब्याज ( the कूपन ) or to repay the principal at a later date, termed the maturity.
Interest is usually देय at फिक्स्ड intervals ( semiannual, सालाना, sometimes monthly ).
Very often the bond is negotiable, i.e. the स्वामित्व of the यंत्र can be transferred in the secondary market.
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the होल्डर of the बंध is the lender ( creditor ), the जारीकर्ता of the बंध is the borrower ( debtor ), and the coupon is the interest.
Bonds provide the borrower साथ बाह्य निधि to वित्त long-term निवेश, or, in the मामला of सरकारी bonds, to वित्त वर्तमान व्यय.
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term वाणिज्यिक पेपर हैं माना to be धन मार्केट यंत्र और नहीं bonds : the प्रमुख अंतर is in the लंबाई of the term of the instrument.
Bonds and stocks are both securities, but the major difference between the दो is कि ( पूंजी ) stockholders have an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e. वे हैं स्वामी ), whereas bondholders have a creditor हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e. वे are lenders ).
Another difference is that bonds प्रायः have a पारिभाषित पद, or परिपक्वता, बाद जिससे the बंध is redeemed, whereas स्टॉक्स may be outstanding indefinitely.
An exception is an irredeemable बंध, ऐसे as consols, जिससे is a perpetuity, i.e. a bond with no maturity.
A स्केल मॉडल of the मीनार of London.
इस मॉडल can be मिला अंदर the tower.
Scale model of जल संचालित turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet tahoe, 1:43 घाट f-100, 1:25 revell monogram 1999 घाट mustang कोबरा, 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
मॉडल जहाजों और castle
A scale model is a physical model, a representation or copy of an object that is larger or छोटी than the वास्तविक आकार of the ऑब्जेक्ट, जिससे seeks to maintain the सापेक्ष proportions ( the स्केल फ़ैक्टर ) of the शारीरिक size of the original object.
Very often the स्केल मॉडल is प्रयुक्त as a मार्गदर्शिका to बनाना the object in full size.
Scale models are निर्मित or एकत्रित लिये अनेक कारण.
The Zune hd थी a पोर्टेबल मीडिया खिलाड़ी in the zune उत्पाद परिवार released on September 15, 2009 by Microsoft.
It was a direct प्रतिस्पर्धी साथ the ठहराना ipod और iPhone series of mobile devices.
It was initially released in 16 और 32 gb capacities.
A 64 GB version थी released on अप्रैल 9, 2010.
It utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation and शामिल wi-fi लिये तुल्यकालन, अभिगम to the zune मार्केटप्लेस और वेब browsing.
The Zune HD utilized the nvidia tegra apx 2600 चिप, allowing it to खेल 720p वीडियो through the optional HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, content होता be scaled bas to 480x272 पिक्सेल on the खिलाड़ी 's OLED touchscreen.
Old Sparky, the electric कुर्सी प्रयुक्त at गाओ गाओ थाना
निष्पादन by electrocution, प्रायः performed using an इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी, is an निष्पादन विधि originating in the United States in which the condemned person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body.
This execution method was निर्मित by कर्मचारी of थामस एडिसन दौरान the युद्ध of currents, और रै महरूम प्रयुक्त तभी in the संयुक्त राज्य और, लिये a काल of अनेक दशकों, in the फिलीपीन ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation, last in 1976 ).
Historically, once the condemned व्यक्ति थी संलग्न to the कुर्सी, विभिन्न चक्र ( differing in वोल्टेज और अवधि ) of प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान होता be passed through the व्यक्तिगत 's देह, in अनुक्रम to कारण fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ).
The first jolt of electric current was designed to cause immediate unconsciousness और दिमाग मौत ; the दूसरी एक थी designed to कारण fatal damage to the vital organs.
Death was frequently caused by विद्युत overstimulation of the heart.
Although in the संयुक्त राज्य the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी रै become a प्रतीक of the मौत दंड, इसके उपयोग is in मनाही due to the वृद्धि of lethal इंजेक्शन, which is widely believed to be a more humane method of execution.
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method of निष्पादन, आज it is तभी कायम as a द्वितीयक विधि कि may be चुनी over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner.
As of 2010, electrocution is an वैकल्पिक रूप of निष्पादन in अलबामा, फ्लोरिडा, South Carolina and Virginia.
They allow the कैदी to चुनें lethal इंजेक्शन as an alternative method.
In the states of केंटकी और टेनेसी, the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी रै महरूम रिटायर्ड मगर लिये those जिनकी पूंजी अपराधों यहूद वचनबद्ध prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
In both states, inmates जो do नहीं चुनें electrocution or inmates जो वचनबद्ध उनके अपराधों बाद the designated date are killed by lethal injection.
The electric chair is an alternate form of execution approved for potential use in Arkansas and ओक्लाहोमा if अन्य फ़ॉर्म of निष्पादन हैं मिला असंवैधानिक in the state at the time of execution.
It is the एकमात्र विधि of निष्पादन in वर्मांट, where treason is the only capital crime.
On फ़रवरी 8, 2008, the नेब्रास्का परम् अदालत संकल्पित कि निष्पादन by इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी थी a `` बेदर्द and unusual punishment '' under the state 's constitution.
This brought executions of this type to an समाप्त in नेब्रास्का, the तभी बाकी state to retain electrocution as its sole method of execution for murder.
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the सामान्य सभा, the राज्य विधानमंडल of the अमरीकी राज्य of मेरीलैंड, और is रचित of 141 delegates elected from 47 districts.
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the मेरीलैंड राज्य हाउस ( राज्य कैपिटल ) on राज्य वृत्त in annapolis, जिससे is the राज्य पूंजी.
The State House also houses the मेरीलैंड राज्य सीनेट कक्ष और the कार्यालयों of the राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल of the State of Maryland.
Each प्रतिनिधि रै कार्यालयों in annapolis, in the आसपास कैस्पर R. Taylor, Jr. House Office Building.
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the बैटल लिये पेरिस ) took प्लेस दौरान संसार युद्ध ii इससे 19 अगस्त 1944 जबतक the आत्मसमर्पण of the occupying जर्मनी गैरीसन on 25 August.
The मुक्ति of पेरिस प्रारंभ साथ an uprising by the फ्रेंच प्रतिरोध against the German garrison.
on 24 अगस्त, the फ्रेंच शक्तियां of the आंतरिक ( शक्तियां françaises de l'intérieur, ffi ) प्राप्त सुदृढीकरण इससे the फ़्री फ्रेंच फौज of मुक्ति and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton.
The capital प्रदेश of फ़्रांस था महरूम governed by नाजी जर्मनी चूंकि the हस्ताक्षर of the दूसरी compiègne armistice in जून 1940, जब the जर्मनी फौज occupied northern and westernmost France, and when the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France.
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the exile of the vichy सरकारी to sigmaringen in जर्मनी.
However, there was still much heavy लड़ to be किया पहले फ़्रांस थी liberated, सहित the अभियान in दक्षिणी फ़्रांस दौरान august-september ( in provence और extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the Vosges Mountains ), along the German-held seaports of western France ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ), in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, and in northeastern France, such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers.
The German Army and SS fought doggedly in ये क्षेत्रों लिये the शेष of 1944 और into 1945.
`` Feelin ' alright ? '' भी ज्ञात as `` अहसास alright '' is a सोंग लिखा by डेव मेसन of the अंग्रेज़ी rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album, Traffic.
The सोंग थी भी a hit सिंगल लिये अनेक performers : जो cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, us # 33 ), Mongo Santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) and Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971, US # 54 ).
It has also been अंकित by तीन श्वान रात्रि ( 1969 ), the 5th आयाम ( 1970 ), लू राल्स, फ्रेडी किंग, पॉल weller, lulu, chairmen of the फलक ( 1970 ), विरल धरती, the इलेक्ट्रिक अवधारणा ऑर्केस्ट्रा, माँ 's Finest ( 1973 ), The Ohio Players ( 1971 ), Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo Parker, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes.
A Steel Drum version by त्रिनिदाद आयल कम्पनी थी reissued on the dancefloor जैज़ संकलन Blue Juice 2.
It was also featured in the 2000 फिल्मी duets, सुंग by Huey Lewis.
Both the असली और the जो cocker कवर यहूद प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म Flight, starring Denzel Washington.
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor, voice actor, singer, songwriter और संगीतकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिका as ned bigby on the निकलोडियन sitcom ned 's declassified स्कूल अस्तित्व मार्गदर्शिका और लिये उसके भूमिका in the 2007 tv फिल्म shredderman Rules, as the lead character Nolan Byrd.
Werkheiser also निभाई पीटर parkes in the चौथी और फाइनल ऋतु of the ABC Family show Greek.
Sample view of an electronic स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड आधारित on बिंब
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य सूचना परिचय व्यक्तिगत मरीजों or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically सक्षम of होने साझा आरपार अलग स्वास्थ्य care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना प्रणालियों और अन्य सूचना networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization औकात, प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण परिणाम, radiology बिंब, vital लक्षण, निजी आंकड़े like age and weight, and billing information.
ऋण origination is the प्रक्रम by जिससे a borrower applies लिये a नई ऋण, and a lender processes that application.
origination generally शामिल सब the कदम इससे लेने a ऋण अनुप्रयोग up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ).
Loan servicing covers सबकुछ बाद disbursing the निधि जबतक the loan is fully paid off.
Loan origination is a specialized संस्करण of नई खाता खोलने लिये वित्तीय services organizations.
Certain people and संगठन specialize in ऋण origination.
Mortgage brokers and other mortgage originator कंपनियाँ serve as a prominent उदाहरण.
वहीँ हैं अनेक अलग प्रकार of loans.
For more सूचना on ऋण प्रकार, देखिए the ऋण और उपभोक्ता lending articles.
Steps involved in originating a ऋण vary by ऋण प्रकार, विभिन्न kinds of ऋण रिस्क, नियामक, lender policy, and other factors.
Top left : The टेनेसी घाटी प्राधिकार, भाग of the नई Deal, being signed into law in 1933.
Top right : Franklin Delano रूज़वेल्ट, जो थी जिम्मेदार लिये पहलों और कार्यक्रम collectively ज्ञात as the New Deal.
Bottom : a पब्लिक भित्ति इससे एक of the artists employed by the New Deal.
The New Deal थी a श्रेणी of आर्थिक कार्यक्रम enacted in the संयुक्त राज्य between 1933 and 1936.
They involved अध्यक्षीय कार्यपालिका आदेश or कानून passed by कॉंग्रेस दौरान the पहला term of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
the कार्यक्रम यहूद in जवाब to the ग्रेट अवसाद, और केन्द्रित on कया इतिहासकारों call the `` 3 Rs '' : Relief, Recovery, and Reform.
That is Relief for the unemployed and poor ; Recovery of the economy to सामान्य स्तर ; और सुधार of the वित्तीय प्रणाली to prevent a repeat अवसाद.
The New Deal produced a political realignment, making the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party that held the White House for seven out of nine अध्यक्षीय शर्तें इससे 1933 to 1969 ), साथ इसके आधार in उदार विचार, the श्वेत दक्षिण, परंपरागत डेमोक्रेट, बिग नगर मशीने, और the newly सशक्त मजदूर संघ और जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों.
The Republicans were split, with conservatives opposing the संपूर्ण नई सौदे as an दुश्मन of कारोबार और विकास, और उदारवादियों accepting कुछ of it और होनहार to make it more efficient.
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal गठबन्धन कि वर्चस्व सबसे अध्यक्षीय चुनावों into the 1960s, जबकि the विपक्ष रूढ़िवादी गठबन्धन largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was used for समर्थक of the नई सौदे, और `` रूढ़िवादी `` लिये इसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों.
From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt was assisted in उसके endeavours by a “pro-spender” बहुमत in कॉंग्रेस ( drawn इससे two-party, competitive, non-machine, Progressive, and Left party districts ).
As noted by Alexander Hicks, “Roosevelt, backed by विरल, non-southern डेमोक्रेट majorities — 270 non-southern डेमोक्रेट प्रतिनिधि और 71 non-southern डेमोक्रेट सीनेटरों — spelled दूसरी नई सौदे reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First नई सौदे '' ( 1933–34 ) और a `` दूसरी नई सौदे '' ( 1935–38 ), साथ the दूसरी एक अधिक उदार और more controversial.
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with diverse groups, from banking और railroads to उद्योग और खेती, सब of जिससे मांगे सहायता लिये आर्थिक survival.
The संघीय आपात राहत प्रशासन, लिये उदाहरण, provided $ 500 लाख लिये राहत operations by states and cities, while the short-lived CWA ( Civil Works Administration ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34.
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 शामिल the वेगनर अधिनियम to प्रचार मजदूर संघ, the works प्रगति प्रशासन ( wpa ) राहत कार्यक्रम ( जिससे बना the संघीय सरकारी by दूर the largest single employer in the nation ), the Social Security Act, and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers.
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States आवास प्राधिकार और फार्म सुरक्षा प्रशासन, दोनो in 1937, और the मेला मजदूर मानकों अधिनियम of 1938, जिससे नियत अधिकतम घंटों और न्यूनतम wages for most categories of workers.
The आर्थिक downturn of 1937–38, और the कड़वा विभाजित between the AFL and CIO labor unions led to major Republican gains in Congress in 1938.
Conservative Republicans and Democrats in कॉंग्रेस joined in the अनौपचारिक रूढ़िवादी Coalition.
By 1942–43 they shut down relief कार्यक्रम ऐसे as the wpa और ccc और अवरोधित प्रमुख उदार प्रस्ताव.
रूज़वेल्ट खुद turned उसके ध्यान to the war effort, and won reelection in 1940 and 1944.
The Supreme Court declared the National रिकवरी प्रशासन ( nra ) और the पहला संस्करण of the agricultural समायोजन अधिनियम ( aaa ) असंवैधानिक, however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld.
As the first Republican president elected after FDR, Dwight D. आइज़नहावर ( 1953–61 ) बाएँ the नई सौदे largely intact, even expanding it in some areas.
In the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the नई सौदे as प्रेरणा लिये a नाटकीय विस्तार of उदार कार्यक्रम, जिससे रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड M. निक्सन generally retained.
After 1974, however, the call for deregulation of the अर्थव्यवस्था gained bipartisan support.
The New Deal विनियमन of बैंकिंग ( glass–steagall अधिनियम ) थी निलंबित in the 1990s.
Many New Deal programs remain क्रियाशील, साथ कुछ स्टिल ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the असली names, सहित the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम ( fdic ), the संघीय क्रॉप बीमे निगम ( FCIC ), the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ), and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ).
The largest programs still in अस्तित्व आज हैं the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रणाली और the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग ( SEC ).
a स्त्री ( ), pl : महिलाओं ( ) is a female human.
The term woman is usually reserved for an adult, साथ the पद लड़की होने the usual पद लिये a female child or adolescent.
However, the term woman is also sometimes प्रयुक्त to पहचानो a मादा इंसान, regardless of आयु, as in वाक्यांश such as `` Women 's rights ``.
Women are typically capable of giving जनम, हालांकि पुरानी महिलाओं जो have गए through menopause and some intersex women can not.
`` i do n't want to मिस a बात '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ for the 1998 film Armageddon.
Written by Diane वारेन, the सोंग debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 ( the first # 1 for the band after 28 years together ).
The song stayed at number one for चार सप्ताह इससे सितंबर 5 to सितंबर 26, 1998.
The song also ठहरे at क्रमांक 1 लिये अनेक सप्ताह in अनेक अन्य देशों.
In the UK, the song peaked at क्रमांक चार, बनने एरोस्मिथ 's उच्चतम charting सोंग in the uk, जहाँ it थी the 17th best-selling single of 1998, and has sold over a million copies.
हालांकि नहीं प्रयुक्त by the बहुमत of the संसार 's देशों, daylight saving time is common in the Western world.
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also गर्मियाँ समय in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी — is the अभ्यास of advancing घड़ियाँ दौरान the हल्का महीने so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less.
Typically clocks are adjusted आगे एक घंटा निकट the प्रारंभ of वसन्त और हैं समायोजित backward in autumn.
The modern idea of daylight saving was first प्रस्तावित in 1895 by जार्ज vernon हडसन और it थी पहला implemented दौरान the पहला संसार War.
Many देशों have प्रयुक्त it at विभिन्न times since then.
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s and 1960s, and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy संकट और रै महरूम widely प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका और यूरोपीय चूंकि तब.
The practice has been दोनो praised और criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing, sports, and other activities that exploit sunlight बाद working घंटों, लकिन can कारण समस्याएं लिये संध्या entertainment और अन्य occupations tied to the sun.
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a प्राथमिक उपयोग of विद्युत ), आधुनिक हीटिंग और कूलिंग उपयोग पैटर्न differ greatly, और शोध परिचय how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory.
DST clock शिफ्ट उपस्थित अन्य चुनौतियां.
They complicate timekeeping, और can disrupt बैठक, सफर, बिलिंग, रिकार्ड keeping, चिकित्सा devices, heavy equipment, and sleep patterns.
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically, but इस can be सीमित और error-prone, विशेषकर जब dst तिथियाँ हैं बदला.
floorplan of the château de Montargis
Montargis is a कम्यून in the loiret विभाग in north-central France on the Loing river.
The town is स्तिथ परिचय दक्षिण of पेरिस और ईस्ट of orléans in the Gâtinais.
Montargis is the दूसरी largest नगर in the loiret, after Orléans.
It is near a large forest, और contains लाइट उद्योग और खेती, including saffron.
Due to its numerous canals और पुलों, montargis sometimes बिल्स itself as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais. ''
Though काफी आधुनिक, it retains a मध्यकालीन आकर्षण in its downtown area.
In computer storage, a logical unit number, or LUN, is a क्रमांक प्रयुक्त to पहचानो a लॉजिकल ईकाई, जिससे is a यंत्र addressed by the scsi प्रोटोकॉल or protocols which encapsulate SCSI, such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI.
A LUN may be प्रयुक्त साथ कोई यंत्र जिससे supports read/write परिचालन, ऐसे as a टेप ड्राइव, लकिन is सबसे प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN.
Though not technically सही, the पद `` lun '' is प्रायः भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the logical disk itself.
The Gospel According to Mark (,, to euangelion kata markon ), commonly shortened to the इन्जील of चिह्नित or बस Mark, is the second book of the New Testament.
This canonical खाता of the जीवन of यीशु of नासरत is एक of the three synoptic gospels.
It was विचार to be an निचोड़, जिससे खाते लिये इसके प्लेस as the दूसरी gospel in the Bible.
However, most contemporary scholars अभी लिहाज़ it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That Mark was used as a source for the other synoptic gospels इन्जील of मैथ्यू और इन्जील of ल्यूक is widely आयोजित by अनेक, हालांकि नहीं सब, नई वसीयत विद्वानों.
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus from उसके बपतिस्मा by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट to उसके मौत और क़यामत.
it focuses विशेषकर on the पिछला सप्ताह of his life ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem.
Its swift कथा portrays यीशु as a वीर man of कार्रवाई, an exorcist, healer and miracle worker.
an महत्वपूर्ण थीम of Mark is the Messianic Secret.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, कोशिशें unsuccessfully to रखना उसके मुक्तिदाता पहचान रहस्य, और conceals उसके संदेश साथ parables.
meanwhile, the शिष्यों असफल to समझे दोनो the implication of the चमत्कार of यीशु और the अर्थ of the बाते he predicts about his arrest, death and resurrection.
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 साथ the डिस्कवरी of यीशु ' खाली मकबरा और कि the following खाता of उसके क़यामत दिखावे is a later addition.
According to tradition and some early church writers, the author is चिह्नित the इंजीलवादी, the साथी of the apostle पीटर.
The gospel, however, appears to rely on several underlying sources, varying in रूप और in धर्मशास्त्र, जिससे tells विरूद्ध the परंपरा कि the इन्जील थी आधारित on पीटर 's उपदेश.
The text is a compilation which may शामिल eye-witness खाते as खूब as ज्ञात अपोस्टोलिक preachings, और pre-existing लिखा रिकॉर्ड कि do नहीं मौजूद today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators.
Some of the stories in the इन्जील may have महरूम transmitted orally before being written down.
Various elements within the gospel सुझाएँ कि the लेखक लिखा in सीरियाई or फिलिस्तीन लिये a non-jewish ईसाई community.
The Lord of the Rings is an epic high काल्पनिक अनोखा लिखा by अंग्रेज़ी भाषाशास्त्री और विश्वविद्यालयों of ऑक्सफोर्ड professor J. R. R. Tolkien.
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937 children 's काल्पनिक अनोखा the होब्बिट, लकिन आखिरकार विकसित into a much larger work.
It was written in चरण between 1937 और 1949, much of it दौरान World War II.
It is the second best-selling अनोखा कभी लिखा, साथ over 150 लाख नक़ल sold.
The title of the novel refers to the story 's main antagonist, the Dark Lord Sauron, who had in an पहले आयु निर्मित the एक रिंग to नियम the अन्य बजती of शक्ति as the परम हथियार in उसके अभियान to जीतें और नियम सब of middle-earth.
From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a Hobbit land not unlike the English countryside, the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, notably the hobbits frodo baggins, samwise `` sam '' gamgee, meriadoc `` मैरी '' brandybuck और peregrin `` pippin '' took, लकिन भी the hobbits ' मुख्य allies और यात्राएं companions : aragorn, a इंसान रेंजर ; boromir, a man इससे gondor ; gimli, a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas, an Elven prince ; and Gandalf, a Wizard.
The work was initially intended by tolkien to be एक आवाज़ of a two-volume नियत, साथ the अन्य being The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
It was decided for economic reasons to publish The Lord of the बजती as तीन आयतन over the कोर्स of a साल इससे 29 जुलाई 1954 to 20 अक्तूबर 1955, यूँ बनाना the अभी परिचित रब of the Rings trilogy.
The three आयतन यहूद हकदार the फेलोशिप of the रिंग, the Two Towers, and The Return of the King.
Structurally, the novel is divided internally into six books, दो प्रति आवाज़, साथ अनेक appendices of पृष्ठभूमि सामग्री शामिल at the end of the third volume.
The Lord of the बजती रै चूंकि महरूम reprinted numerous टाइम्स और translated into many languages.
Tolkien 's work has been the विषय of extensive विश्लेषण of इसके themes and origins.
Although a प्रमुख कार्य in itself, the स्टोरी थी तभी the पिछला गति of a larger एपिक tolkien था worked on चूंकि 1917, in a process he described as mythopoeia.
Influences on this earlier work, and on the story of The Lord of the Rings, include philology, mythology, धर्म और the लेखक 's distaste लिये the प्रभाव of industrialization, as खूब as पहले काल्पनिक works और tolkien 's अनुभवों in संसार War I.
The रब of the बजती in इसके फेरे is माना to have था a ग्रेट प्रभाव on आधुनिक काल्पनिक ; the impact of Tolkien 's works is such that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the बजती रै led to numerous सन्दर्भ in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, the founding of अनेक समाजों by प्रशंसक of tolkien 's works, और the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works.
The Lord of the Rings has प्रेरित, और continues to inspire, कलाकृति, म्यूज़िक, films and television, video games, and subsequent literature.
Award-winning adaptations of The रब of the बजती have महरूम बना लिये रेडियो, थिएटर, and film.
The following is an एपीसोड सूची लिये the निकलोडियन sitcom Drake & Josh.
The series debuted on जनवरी 11, 2004.
A TV film Merry Christmas, Drake & Josh was made अलावा इससे the नियमित श्रेणी on दिसम्बर 5, 2008.
There are a कुल of 60 एपीसोड यहूद उत्पादित spanning four seasons.
ड्रेक घंटी, जोश पेक, और मिरांडा cosgrove यहूद the तभी अभिनेताओं to appear in all 60 episodes.
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp at the team 's मुख्यालय और अभ्यास सुविधा in सांता क्लारा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in अगस्त 2010.
The offense is wearing रेड jerseys साथ the एक्सेप्शन of क्वार्टरबैक एलेक्स स्मिथ, जो is in a ब्लैक jersey ; the defense in white.
In the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग, प्रशिक्षण शिविर refers to the समय पहले the season commences.
During this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an outside स्थान, प्रायः a विश्वविद्यालयों, to conduct प्रशिक्षण शिविर लिये at तनिक the first few weeks.
This is similar to बेसबॉल 's वसन्त प्रशिक्षण.
Training camp is प्रयुक्त in अनेक अलग तरीके.
New players and कोच उपयोग it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and systems.
For younger players, it serves as a period of मूल्यांकन ; लिये दिग्गजों, it is समय to गोलाकार back into form.
Training camp is विभाजित into अनेक अलग components.
the पहला is scrimmages.
These हैं pseudo-games जहाँ टीमों चलाएं nearly full games ' worth of plays.
Sometimes, दो अभ्यास सत्र हैं आयोजित on the same day.
इस अवधारणा is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of training camp include drills, बैठक साथ कोच और अन्य खिलाड़ी at एक 's स्थिति, वज़न प्रशिक्षण, और pre-season games.
The latter half of training camp leads सीधे into the प्रदर्शनी ऋतु.
With NFL training शिविरों starting in late-july, the biggest चिंता रै महरूम निर्जलीकरण.
In 2001, Minnesota Vikings खिलाड़ी korey stringer died of a चिकित्सा कंडीशन आधारित इससे निर्जलीकरण and heatstroke.
the मौत of stringer prompted the NFL to change their training policies.
at प्रत्येक अभ्यास, प्रत्येक टोली जरूर have the टोली डॉक्टर और प्रशिक्षकों on the फ़ील्ड ; additionally, an ambulance must be present during practices.
With NFL training camps शुरूआत in लेट जुलाई, कठोर मौसम can affect अभ्यास and exhibition games.
In 2002, a क्लीवलैंड भूरा प्रदर्शनी खेल ended due to बिजली निकट क्लीवलैंड भूरा स्टेडियम, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to catch an जल्दी dekh at the खिलाड़ी ; प्रवेश to practices is प्रायः फ़्री or substantially कम महंगी than a खेल टिकट, बनाना प्रशिक्षण camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many games due to financial or other reasons.
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at शिविर साइट साथ साथ offering क्रियाएँ और कार्यक्रम to मेक प्रशिक्षण शिविर a अधिक fan-friendly experience.
In computing, a संचिका प्रणाली ( or filesystem ) is a प्रकार of आंकड़ा स्टोर जिससे can be प्रयुक्त to स्टोर, retrieve और अद्यतन a set of files.
The term could refer to the abstract data structures used to define files, or to the वास्तविक तन्त्र or फर्मवेयर components कि implement the abstract ideas.
Some file systems are used on local data storage डिवाइस ; अन्य provide संचिका अभिगम via a संजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( e.g. nfs, SMB, or 9P clients ).
Some file systems are `` virtual '', in that the `` फाइलें '' supplied हैं computed on निवेदन ( e.g. procfs ) or हैं merely a मानचित्रण into a अलग संचिका प्रणाली प्रयुक्त as a backing store.
The file system manages access to दोनो the सामग्री of फाइलें और the मेटाडेटा परिचय those फाइलें.
It is जिम्मेदार लिये arranging भंडार स्पेस ; विश्वसनीयता, दक्षता, और ट्यूनिंग with regard to the physical storage medium are important design considerations.
William Howard Taft ( September 15, 1857 – March 8, 1930 ) was the 27th President of the United राज्य ( 1909–1913 ) और बाद the दसवाँ मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the तभी व्यक्ति to have परोसा in both of these offices.
Before becoming President, taft, a रिपब्लिकन, थी चयनित to serve on the श्रेष्ठ अदालत of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the United States and in 1891 a न्यायधीश on the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of appeals लिये the छठे सर्किट.
In 1900, अध्यक्ष विलियम mckinley नियुक्त taft governor-general of the Philippines.
In 1904, President Theodore Roosevelt नियुक्त taft सचिव of युद्ध in an प्रयत्न to दूल्हे taft, तब उसके बंद राजनैतिक ally, into उसके handpicked presidential successor.
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on some occasions the role of acting Secretary of State, while घटती दोहराया offers इससे रूज़वेल्ट to serve on the परम् Court.
Riding a wave of लोकप्रिय support लिये fellow रिपब्लिकन रूज़वेल्ट, taft जीती an आसान विजय in his 1908 bid for the presidency.
In his only term, Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting, सिविल सेवा सुधार, strengthening the अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स आयोग, improving the प्रदर्शन of the postal service, and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Abroad, Taft sought to further the आर्थिक विकास of राष्ट्र in लैटिन अमेरिका और एशिया through `` डालर कूटनीति ``, और दिखाया decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico.
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the राजनैतिक ramifications of उसके निर्णय, प्रायः alienated उसके अपना कुंजी constituencies, और थी overwhelmingly defeated in his bid for a second term in the presidential election of 1912.
In surveys of presidential scholars, taft is प्रायः क्रमित निकट the मध्य of सूचियाँ of all American Presidents.
After leaving office, Taft spent his time in academia, मध्यस्थता, और the ढूंढें लिये संसार सलाम through उसके self-founded लीग to enforce Peace.
In 1921, after the First संसार युद्ध, अध्यक्ष वारेन G. हार्डिंग नियुक्त taft मुख्य Justice of the United States.
Taft served in this capacity until shortly पहले उसके मौत in 1930.
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical स्टोरी of the exodus, in जिससे the hebrew-born मूसा, an अपनाया मिश्र प्रिंस, becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves.
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role, Yul Brynner as उसके adoptive bhai, pharaoh rameses ii, ऐनी बैक्सटर as nefretiri, एडवर्ड G. रॉबिन्सन as dathan, yvonne de कार्लो as sephora, डेबरा पेजेट as Lilia, and John Derek as Joshua.
the supporting डाल शामिल सर सेड्रिक hardwicke as pharaoh सेती i, नीना foch as bithiah, मार्था Scott as Yoshebel, Judith Anderson as Memnet, Vincent Price as Baka, and John Carradine as Aaron.
The फिल्मी थी released by सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें in vistavision on October 5, 1956.
The Ten Commandments, जिससे demille narrated, थी the पिछला फिल्मी कि he directed.
He was set to सीधा the 1958 रीमेक of उसके 1938 फिल्मी the buccaneer, लकिन उसके फाइनल बीमारी मजबूर उसे to बाज़ the directing chores to his son-in-law, actor Anthony Quinn.
DeMille had also नियोजित to फिल्मी the जीवन of रब baden पावेल, the संस्थापक of the Scout movement, with David Niven ; this project was never realized.
the टेन आयतें is a आंशिक रीमेक of demille 's 1923 silent film.
Some of the cast और क्रू of the 1956 संस्करण worked on the असली.
It has चूंकि महरूम remade as a टेलीविज़न miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
The Ten Commandments is one of the सबसे financially कामयाब films कभी बना, grossing over $ 65 लाख at the U.S. box office.
Adjusting for inflation, इस makes it the छठे highest-grossing फिल्मी domestically, साथ an समायोजित कुल of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
The box दफ्तर जालस्थल `` the संख्याएँ '' सूचियाँ the घरेलू gross at $ 80 million.
In 1999, The Ten आयतें थी चयनित लिये संरक्षण in the संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस as being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
In June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed इसके `` टेन शीर्ष टेन `` —the बेहतरीन टेन films in टेन अमरीकी फिल्मी genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the creative community.
The Ten आयतें थी सूचीबद्ध as the दसवाँ बेहतरीन फिल्मी in the epic genre.
The film received seven अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations सहित बेहतरीन चित्र, और जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार for Best Visual Effects.
Charlton Heston was nominated for a Golden Globe पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति चित्र कर्ता in the नाटक category.
Yul Brynner won the National फलक of पुनर्विलोकन पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका as rameses, साथ साथ उसके अन्य भूमिकाएँ in the King and I and Anastasia.
Louisville (, or ) is a प्रमुख नगर और the largest नगर in the u.S. राज्य of केंटकी और the काउंटी सीट of Jefferson County.
Since 2003, the नगर 's सीमायें have महरूम साथ those of the काउंटी क्युकी of a city-county merger.
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census was 741,096 ( Louisville 's संतुलन कुल, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous कस्बों और is the जनसांख्यिकी सूचीबद्ध in most sources and national rankings ).
As of 2010, the louisville महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally.
The metro area includes louisville-jefferson काउंटी और 12 surrounding काउंटी, आठ in केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी इंडियाना ( देखिए Geography below ).
The Louisville Combined सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, having a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,451,564, शामिल the एमएसए, hardin काउंटी and Larue County in Kentucky, and Scott County, Indiana.
An important internal शिपिंग बंदरगाहों in the 19th सदी, louisville आज is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the स्थान of the केंटकी डर्बी, the पहला of three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown.
A typical प्रायोगिक सेटअप लिये an aldol reaction.
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C ) the तापमान of जिससे is होने monitored by a तापयुग्म ( the तार on the left ).
A cooling bath, in प्रयोगशाला रसायन ( प्रायः लकिन नहीं सदा सशुल्क रसायन ) अभ्यास, is a liquid mixture which is used to maintain low temperatures, typically between 13 °C and −196 °C.
These low temperatures हैं प्रयुक्त to collect liquids बाद आसवन, to हटाएँ सॉल्वैंट्स using a रोटरी evaporator, or to perform a रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया नीचे रूम तापमान ( see : kinetic control ).
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen, water, or even air ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling agent ( such as dry ice or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'कैरीr ' ( ऐसे as द्रव जल, एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल, एसीटोन, इत्यादि. ), जिससे हस्तांतरण ऊष्मा between the नहाना और the पोत ; ; और ( c ) an योगात्मक to गुमसुम the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( A familiar example of this is the उपयोग of an ice/rock-salt मिश्रण to फ्रीज ice cream.
The phase-change of ice into द्रव जल requires उर्जा, 'pulling ' heat from the system.
Adding salt lowers the अस्थायी at जिससे इस happens, अर्थ अधिक उर्जा रै to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice.
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it जरूर 'pull ' अधिक ऊष्मा इससे इसके पर्यावरण to become liquid. )
Eating disorders are शर्तें पारिभाषित by असामान्य खाने आदतें कि may involve either अपर्याप्त or excessive food intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health.
Bulimia नर्वोज़ा और एनोरेक्सिया नर्वोज़ा हैं the सबसे आम विशिष्ट forms in the United Kingdom.
Other types of eating विकार शामिल binge खाने विकार और खाने विकार नहीं otherwise specified.
Bulimia नर्वोज़ा is a विकार characterized by binge eating and purging.
purging can शामिल self-induce उल्टी, over-exercising, and the usage of diuretics, enemas, and laxatives.
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to the पाइंट of self-starvation और excessive weight loss.
Though primarily thought of as affecting महिलाओं ( an अनुमानित 5–10 लाख होने प्रभावित in the u.K. ), खाने विकार affect males as well.
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people with eating disorders are males ( गोर्गान, 1999 ).
( an अनुमानित 1 लाख u.K. males होने प्रभावित ).
Although eating disorders are increasing all over the world among दोनो मेन और महिलाओं, वहीँ is प्रमाण to सुझाएँ कि it is महिलाओं in the पश्चिमी संसार who are at the highest risk of developing them and the degree of westernization increases the risk.
Nearly half of सब अमेरिकी personally जान किसी साथ an eating disorder.
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously चूंकि लेप्टिन थी खोजा, और the कौशल to observe the कृत्यों of the दिमाग as खूब.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic and self-regulatory control प्रक्रियाओं हैं शामिल in खाने आचरण, जिससे is a कुंजी घटक in खाने disorders.
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely समझा, लकिन वहीँ is प्रमाण कि it may be linked to अन्य चिकित्सा शर्तें and situations.
Cultural idealization of thinness और youthfulness have contributed to खाने विकार affecting diverse populations.
One study दिखाया कि लड़कियों साथ adhd have a वृहद मौका of getting an eating disorder than those not affected by ADHD.
Another study suggested that women साथ ptsd, विशेषकर due to sexually सम्बन्धित आघात, हैं अधिक संभावित to develop एनोरेक्सिया nervosa.
One पढ़ाई दिखाया कि फोस्टर लड़कियों हैं अधिक संभावित to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some think कि पीर दबाव और idealized body-types देखी in the मीडिया are also a significant factor.
Some research दिखाएँ कि लिये निश्चित लोगों वहीँ हैं जेनेटिक कारण क्यों वे may be prone to developing an eating disorder.
Recent studies have found evidence a सहसंबंध between मरीजों साथ bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders.
In जोड, चिंता विकार और व्यक्तित्व विकार हैं आम आवृत्ति साथ क्लाइंट of eating disorders.
While proper treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from specific types of eating disorders, the consequences of खाने विकार can be कठोर, सहित मौत ( whether इससे सीधा चिकित्सा प्रभाव of अशांत खाने आदतें or इससे comorbid शर्तें ऐसे as suicidal thinking ).
Slavery in the United States existed from the जल्दी सालो of the औपनिवेशिक काल ; it थी firmly स्थापित by the समय the संयुक्त राज्य sought independence from Great Britain in 1776.
However, by 1804, all states north of the Mason and Dixon Line had either abolished गुलामी outright or passed कानून लिये the क्रमिक abolition of slavery.
In 1787 कॉंग्रेस निषिद्ध गुलामी in the उत्तरपश्चिम territory.
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton industry बाद 1800, और विस्तारित into the Southwest.
The nation was polarized into स्लेव और फ़्री राज्य साथ the mason-dixon लकीर, which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The United States and Great Britain both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808, but the घरेलू व्यापार, साथ बिक्री to the गहन दक्षिण, विस्तारित dramatically, और अनेक captives यहूद shipped by the coastwise स्लेव व्यापार.
Before the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending गुलामी और इसके विस्तार into the territories.
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार, और numerous anti-slavery शक्तियां अस्वीकृत it as हानिकारक to the rights of free men.
After failed compromises and Abraham lincoln 's चुनाव, in 1861 ग्यारह स्लेव राज्य broke दूर to रूप the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका, अग्रणी to the American Civil War.
The federal government in 1862 बना abolition of गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
in जनवरी 1863 अध्यक्ष lincoln freed स्लेव in the confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation.
After the war, the Thirteenth Amendment, effective December 1865, abolished गुलामी throughout the संपूर्ण संयुक्त राज्य, सहित the किनारा राज्य और the भारतीय territories.
From the 16th to the 19th सदियां, an अनुमानित 12 million Africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas.
See गुलामी in the americas.
The great बहुमत गई to the शुगर बागानों of the वेस्ट Indies or Brazil, where mortality was high.
About 645,000 यहूद brought to कया is अभी the United States.
By the 1860 United States Census, the slave जनसांख्यिकी in the अमरीकी दक्षिण था grown to four million.
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 स्लेव राज्य, nearly 400,000 आयोजित स्लेव ( roughly one in four ), amounting to 8 % of all American families.
While some स्लेव worked as हाउस बन्दों और शहरी शिल्पकार, the ग्रेट बहुमत worked on बागानों or विशाल खेतो, cultivating lucrative नकदी फसलों, ऐसे as राइस, tobacco, sugar and, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
By 1860 सबसे स्लेव यहूद आयोजित in the गहन दक्षिण, जहाँ वे परोसा in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton.
in छोटी परिचालन, वे worked with their owners.
In विशाल बागानों वे यहूद निर्देशित by white paid overseers.
अंतर्गत the प्रणाली कि became chattel गुलामी ( स्वामित्व of a इंसान होने, और of his/her descendants ), a racial element was fundamental : slaves were blacks of African descent and owned, almost universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, वर्जिनिया, followed by अन्य दक्षिणी colonies, enacted विधि कि children of स्लेव mothers were born into slavery.
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away ( which थी मुश्किल और illegal to do ), or by manumission by स्वामी, जिससे थी regulated by राज्य, और became increasingly difficult or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also organized कार्य by a प्रणाली of बंधुआ मजदूर ज्ञात as indentured servitude.
This typically lasted for several सालो लिये दोनो ग़रीब europeans और africans alike, to अदा off the costs of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for such arrangements क्युकी of ग़रीब economies in उनके home countries.
Between 1680 and 1700, as fewer europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to आयात अधिक Africans as slaves.
Recognizing the importance of slavery, the House of Burgesses in वर्जिनिया enacted a नई स्लेव कोड in 1705 ; it संयुक्त a किस्में of विधान और added नई प्रावधानों enforcing white supremacy in the law.
Schematic cross section of part of पत्ता, जाइलम दिखाया as रेड वृत्त at फिगर 8.
Xylem is one of the दो प्रकार of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ).
The word xylem is derived इससे the यूनानी शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is लकडी, though it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic फलन is to हस्तांतरण जल, लकिन it भी transports कुछ nutrients through the plant.
This clock प्रतिनिधित्व shows कुछ of the प्रमुख इकाई of geological समय and definitive events of Earth history.
The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil रिकार्ड of जीवन on धरती ; इसके अपर boundary is अभी regarded as 4.0 ga ( billion years ago ).
Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life ; the Archean and proterozoic हैं दोनो eons, the palaeozoic, mesozoic और cenozoic हैं eras of the phanerozoic eon.
The दो लाख साल quaternary काल, the समय of recognizable humans, is too small to be visible at this scale.
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological मापन कि relates स्तरिकी to समय, और is प्रयुक्त by geologists, paleontologists, और अन्य धरती वैज्ञानिकों to describe the समय और संबंध between events that have occurred throughout Earth 's history.
The तालिका of भूगर्भिक समय spans प्रस्तुत यहाँ agrees साथ the तिथियाँ और नामकरण नियत forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the International Commission on Stratigraphy.
Evidence from radiometric डेटिंग indicates कि the धरती is about 4.54 billion years old.
The geology or deep समय of धरती 's पास्ट रै महरूम व्यवस्थित into विभिन्न units according to events which took place in each period.
Different spans of time on the GTS are प्रायः सीमांकित by परिवर्तन in the संयोजन of strata जिससे correspond to उन्हें, indicating प्रमुख geological or paleontological events, such as mass extinctions.
For example, the boundary between the cretaceous काल और the paleogene काल is पारिभाषित by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction event, which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life.
Older time spans which predate the विश्वसनीय चट्टान रिकार्ड ( पहले the proterozoic इओन ) are defined by absolute age.
The TI-82 is a graphing परिपथ बना by टेक्सास यंत्र.
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more उपयोक्ता दोस्ताना संस्करण of the ti-85, और as a बदलना लिये the ti-81.
It was the सीधा पूर्ववर्ती of the TI-83.
it साझा साथ the ti-85 a 6 MHz Zilog Z80 microprocessor.
Like the TI-81, the ti-82 सुविधाएँ a 96x64 पिक्सेल प्रदर्शक, और the कोर विशेषता नियत of the ti-81 with many new features.
The cast of वर्ण of the किंग of सेनानी XI.
The King of Fighters fighting game series, produced by SNK Playmore, शामिल a चौड़ी डाल of वर्ण, कुछ of जिससे हैं लिया इससे अन्य snk games.
The story takes place in a fictional universe in जिससे an सालाना श्रेणी of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 लड़ tournaments are held.
The first game in the series introduces the initial प्रमुख अक्षर of the श्रेणी, kyo kusanagi, a यंग जापानी सेनानी जो is the वारिस to a शक्तिशाली group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi गोत्र 's दुश्मनों, उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वी iori yagami, और the परमेश्वर orochi और इसके इंसान अनुसरणकर्ता, among others.
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights, while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a नई स्टोरी चाप, घूमती around k ', a यंग man जो seeks to नष्ट the रहस्यमय nests संगठन क्युकी वे kidnapped उसे at an जल्दी age and stripped him of his past memories, so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control.
In The King of Fighters 2003, a new character named Ash Crimson enters the टूर्नामेंट, to चोरी the शक्तियां of the clans जो sealed the orochi in the पास्ट लिये an unknown reason.
A new group of antagonists, known as those इससे the पास्ट, भी appears in the श्रेणी ; वे want to obtain orochi 's शक्ति लिये the purpose of giving it to उनके unknown master.
The plot and the वर्ण आए इससे the Yamata no Orochi legend.
वहीँ हैं भी अनेक वर्ण in the खेल कि हैं parodies or homages to several popular anime, manga, and films.
merchandise आधारित on the वर्ण रै भी महरूम released, सहित action figures and keychains.
The characters have garnered तारीफ़ इससे अनेक वीडियो खेल publications लिये the विशेषता of उनके डिजाइन and movesets.
Comments केन्द्रित on the कमी of सुधार in कुछ of the वर्ण, लकिन added that the roster is greatly diverse.
Whale Wars is a साप्ताहिक अमरीकी documentary-style वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी that premiered on November 7, 2008 on the Animal Planet cable channel.
The कार्यक्रम फ़ॉलो पॉल वाटसन, संस्थापक of the समुद्र गड़रिये संरक्षण समाज, as he और the क्रू aboard their various vessels harass Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica.
On January 5, 2013, Animal ग्रह नवीनीकृत the श्रेणी लिये a sixth season.
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja ) is a neotropical प्रजाति of त्रिभुज.
It is sometimes known as the American harpy त्रिभुज to फर्क it इससे the पापुआई त्रिभुज जिससे is sometimes ज्ञात as the नई गिनी harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle.
It is the largest और सबसे शक्तिशाली रैप्टर मिला in the americas, और among the largest extant प्रजाति of eagles in the world.
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the अपर ( emergent ) canopy layer.
विनाश of इसके प्राकृतिक आवास रै देखी it vanish इससे अनेक भाग of its former range, and it is nearly extirpated in Central America.
Biological classification, or scientific classification in जीवविज्ञान, is a विधि of वैज्ञानिक taxonomy प्रयुक्त to समूह और categorize जीवों into समूह ऐसे as genus or species.
These समूह हैं ज्ञात as taxa ( एकवचन : taxon ).
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of carolus लीनियस, जो grouped प्रजाति according to साझा शारीरिक विशेषताएँ.
These groupings have since महरूम संशोधित to improve संगति साथ the darwinian principle of common descent.
With the परिचय of the cladistic विधि in the लेट 20th सदी, phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे जीवों हैं grouped आधारित purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological similarity, has become common in some areas of biology.
Molecular phylogenetics, which uses DNA sequences as आंकड़ा, रै भी चलित अनेक हाल revisions और is संभावित to continue doing so.
biological वर्गीकरण belongs to the विज्ञान of biological systematics.
Lennon 's हस्ताक्षर
John Winston Ono Lennon, ( born John Winston लेनन ; 9 अक्तूबर 1940 – 8 दिसम्बर 1980 ) थी an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार, सिंगर और songwriter जो रोज़ to विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as a संस्थापक सदस्य of the बीटल्स, एक of the सबसे commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music.
With Paul McCartney, he formed एक of the सबसे मनाये songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born and raised in Liverpool, as a teenager Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; उसके पहला बैंड, the quarrymen, विकसित into the बीटल्स in 1960.
As the group disintegrated towards the समाप्त of the दशक, लेनन embarked on a सोलो करियर कि उत्पादित the critically acclaimed एल्बम जॉन lennon/plastic ओनो बैंड और imagine, and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine ``.
After his marriage to योको ओनो in 1969, he बदला उसके name to John Ono Lennon.
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to devote समय to उठाने उसके शिशु बेटे शॉन, लकिन re-emerged साथ ओनो in 1980 साथ the नई एल्बम दोगुना Fantasy.
he थी murdered तीन weeks after its release.
Lennon नाज़िल a rebellious प्रकृति और acerbic wit in उसके म्यूज़िक, लिखने, drawings, on film and in interviews.
Controversial through his political and peace activism, he moved to New York City in 1971, where उसके आलोचना of the वियतनाम युद्ध resulted in a lengthy attempt by रिचर्ड निक्सन 's प्रशासन to निर्वासन उसे, जबकि कुछ of उसके गीतों were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units, and as लेखक, co-writer or यजमान, he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest britons voted उसे आठवीं, और in 2008, रोलिंग स्टोन क्रमित उसे the fifth-greatest singer of all time.
He was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 and into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 1994.
प्रतिमा of rip वैन winkle in irvington, नई यॉर्क, नहीं दूर इससे `` sunnyside ``, the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a छोटी स्टोरी by अमरीकी लेखक वॉशिंगटन इरविंग प्रकाशित in 1819, as खूब as the name of the story 's fictional protagonist.
Written while Irving थी जीना in बर्मिंघम, इंग्लैण्ड, it थी भाग of a संग्रहण हकदार the Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon.
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill kyu, इरविंग बाद admitted, `` जब i लिखा the स्टोरी, i था never महरूम on the Catskills. ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have महरूम नियत.
This page only includes the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार जीती by विभिन्न artists.
This does not शामिल the विभिन्न खास पुरस्कार कि हैं प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however करता शामिल अन्य non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( ज्ञात as the शिल्प & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) कि may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Pee-wee Herman is a कॉमिक fictional अक्षर निर्मित and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens.
He is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके दो टेलीविज़न श्रेणी और film series during the 1980s.
The childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a स्टेज अधिनियम कि जल्दी led to an एचबीओ खास in 1981.
As the stage performance gained further popularity, reubens took the अक्षर to गति चित्र साथ pee-wee 's बिग एडवेंचर in 1985, toning bas the वयस्क innuendo for the appeal of children.
This प्रशस्त the रास्ता लिये pee-wee 's playhouse, an एमी Award winning children 's series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991.
Another film, बिग शीर्ष pee-wee, थी released in 1988.
Due to negative media attention following a कांड in 1991, reubens decided to shelve उसके alter अहंकार दौरान the 1990s, और तब धीरे resurrected it during the following decade.
It was at that time that reubens addressed योजनाएँ to लिखें a नई pee-wee फिल्मी, pee-wee 's playhouse : the फिल्म.
In June 2007, reubens appeared as pee-wee herman लिये the पहला समय चूंकि 1991 at स्पाइक tv 's यारों ' चुनाव Awards.
That '70s Show is an American television काल sitcom कि centers on the जीवनदान of a समूह of teenage मित्रों living in the fictional suburban town of Point Place, Wisconsin, from May 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
It debuted on the Fox television network, first airing on अगस्त 23, 1998, कार्यशील लिये आठ लगातार सीज़न, and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18, 2006.
The main teenage डाल सदस्यों यहूद topher अनुग्रह, mila kunis, एश्टन कूचर, डैनी masterson, लौरा prepon, and Wilmer Valderrama.
The main adult cast members यहूद डेबरा jo rupp, kurtwood स्मिथ, डॉन स्टार्क और, दौरान the first three seasons, Tanya Roberts.
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the midwestern संयुक्त राज्य.
It is named after the कान्सास नदी जिससे बहती through it, जिससे in फेरे थी नामित बाद the Kansa Native American tribe, which inhabited the area.
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is प्रायः कहा to औसत `` लोगों of the हवा '' or `` लोगों of the दक्षिण हवा, '' हालांकि इस थी probably not the term 's original meaning.
निवासियों of कान्सास हैं called `` Kansans. ''
For हज़ारों of सालो कया is अभी कान्सास थी घर to numerous और विविध Native American tribes.
Tribes in the Eastern part of the राज्य generally जिया in गांवों साथ the नदी valleys.
Tribes in the Western भाग of the राज्य यहूद सेमi- nomadic और hunted विशाल herds of bison.
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s, लकिन the pace of उपनिवेश त्वरित in the 1850s, in the midst of राजनैतिक युद्धों over the slavery issue.
When officially opened to उपनिवेश by the u.S. सरकारी in 1854, abolitionist free-staters इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड और pro-slavery settlers इससे neighboring मिसौरी rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state.
Thus, the क्षेत्रफल थी a hotbed of हिंसा और अराजकता in इसके जल्दी दिनों as ये शक्तियां collided, and was known as Bleeding Kansas.
The abolitionists eventually prevailed and on जनवरी 29, 1861, कान्सास डाला the संघ as a फ़्री state.
After the सिविल युद्ध, the जनसांख्यिकी of कान्सास grew rapidly, when waves of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland.
Today, Kansas is one of the most productive agricultural राज्य, producing ऊँची yields of गेहूं, ज्वार और sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th सबसे extensive और the 33rd सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
Psychology is an अकादमिक और लागू अनुशासन कि involves the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of mental functions and behaviors.
मनोविज्ञान रै the तात्कालिक लक्ष्य of समझना individuals और समूह by दोनो establishing सामान्य principles and researching specific cases, and by many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society.
In this field, a पेशेवर or शोधकर्ता is पुकारा a मनोवैज्ञानिक और can be वर्गीकृत as a सोशल, behavioral, or cognitive scientist.
Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and social behavior, जबकि भी exploring the physiological और neurobiological प्रक्रियाओं कि underlie निश्चित संज्ञानात्मक कृत्यों and behaviors.
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception, cognition, attention, जज्बात, phenomenology, प्रेरणा, दिमाग कामकाज, व्यक्तित्व, बर्ताव, और interpersonal relationships.
Psychologists of diverse stripes also consider the बेहोश दिमाग.
Psychologists employ अनुभवजन्य विधि to infer causal और correlational संबंध between psychosocial variables.
In जोड, or in विपक्ष, to employing अनुभवजन्य और निगमनात्मक विधि, some—especially नैदानिक और counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic interpretation and other inductive techniques.
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '', with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives from the सोशल sciences, प्राकृतिक sciences, आयुर्विज्ञान, और the मानवता, ऐसे as philosophy.
While psychological knowledge is प्रायः लागू to the मूल्यांकन और उपचार of दिमागी स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं, it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in many different spheres of human activity.
The majority of psychologists हैं शामिल in कुछ दयालु of therapeutic भूमिका, practicing in नैदानिक, counseling, or school settings.
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental प्रक्रियाओं और बर्ताव, और typically कार्य in विश्वविद्यालयों मनोविज्ञान विभाग or सिखा in अन्य अकादमिक जमावट ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
Some are employed in औद्योगिक और organizational जमावट, or in अन्य क्षेत्रों ऐसे as human development and aging, sports, health, and the media, as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law.
Thomas Jefferson ( अप्रैल 13, 1743 ( अप्रैल 2, 1743 o.S. ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) थी an अमरीकी founding पिता, the principal author of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ).
At the beginning of the American Revolution, he परोसा in the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, representing वर्जिनिया और तब परोसा as a wartime राज्यपाल of वर्जिनिया ( 1779–1781 ).
Just after the युद्ध ended, इससे mid-1784 जेफरसन परोसा as a diplomat, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the संयुक्त राज्य Minister to France.
Jefferson was the first United राज्य सचिव of राज्य ( 1790–1793 ) सेवारत अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष George Washington.
With his close dost जेम्स मैडिसन he व्यवस्थित the democratic-republican पार्टी, और subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet.
Elected Vice अध्यक्ष in 1796, जब he आए in दूसरी to जॉन एडम्स of the federalists, जेफरसन opposed एडम्स और साथ मैडिसन secretly wrote the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions, which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts.
Elected president in what Jefferson called the क्रान्ति of 1800, he oversaw the खरीदें of the विशाल louisiana territory इससे फ़्रांस ( 1803 ), और भेजा the लुईस और क्लार्क expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west.
His दूसरी पद थी घिरा साथ परेशानियों at घर, ऐसे as the विफल देशद्रोह विचारण of his former Vice President Aaron Burr.
With escalating trouble with Britain who was challenging American neutrality and threatening shipping at sea, he आजमाया आर्थिक warfare साथ उसके embargo कानून जिससे तभी क्षतिग्रस्त अमरीकी व्यापार.
In 1803, President Jefferson initiated a प्रक्रम of भारतीय जनजातीय हटाना और relocation to the louisiana territory वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी, in अनुक्रम to खोलें lands लिये eventual American settlers.
A leader in the Enlightenment, Jefferson was a बहुश्रुत जो spoke पाँच भाषाएं धड़ल्ले और थी deeply दिलचस्पी in विज्ञान, आविष्कार, वास्तुकला, धर्म और दर्शनशास्त्र, interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency.
He designed his own large mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation near charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, जिससे he नामित monticello.
While not a notable orator, जेफरसन थी a skilled लेखक और corresponded साथ अनेक influential people in America and Europe throughout his adult life.
Though जेफरसन स्वामित्व अनेक स्लेव, he opposed the संस्था सब उसके जीवन और नतीजतन treated and took care of them very well and expected them to work no more than free farmers.
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided over the controversy of whether जेफरसन थी the पिता of एक or अधिक children belonging to सैली hemings, a स्लेव at monticello. ''
Historians are also in disagreement with how much जेफरसन थी वचनबद्ध to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, President Jefferson हस्ताक्षरित into विधि a विधेयक कि बैन the importation of स्लेव into the United States.
बाद मार्था जेफरसन, उसके बीवी of ग्यारह सालो, died in 1782, Jefferson remained a widower for the rest of his life ; their marriage produced six children, of whom two survived to adulthood.
Though Jefferson रै महरूम criticized by अनेक आधुनिक दिन विद्वानों over the समस्या of गुलामी, he remains रेटेड as one of the greatest U.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by स्टीवन वैन zandt, उत्पादित by वैन zandt और आर्थर बेकर और अंकित by कलाकारों United Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South African policy of apartheid.
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the कलाकारों शामिल होता इंकार कोई और सब offers to perform at सूर्य नगर, a रिज़ॉर्ट जिससे थी स्तिथ in bantustan of bophuthatswana, एक of a क्रमांक of internationally अपरिचित supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population.
This page is a list of वर्ण in the पुलिस अकादमी फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न श्रेणी.
Bill रसेल जीती 11 championships साथ the Boston Celtics.
This is a list of NBA players साथ सबसे championships जीती as a खिलाड़ी.
The National बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ) is a प्रमुख पेशेवर basketball league in North America.
It was founded in 1946 as the बास्केट संघ of अमेरिका ( BAA ).
The league adopted its current name at the प्रारंभ of the जब it मिलाया साथ the नेशनल बास्केट League ( NBL ).
The NBA Finals is the चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी लिये the एनबीए और the निष्कर्ष of the खेल 's postseason.
The winning team of the श्रेणी receives the लैरी o'brien चैंपियनशिप Trophy.
Players from the जीतना टोली प्रायः प्राप्त चैंपियनशिप बजती इससे the टोली honoring उनके योगदान.
However, in some rare occasion, the टीमों opted to दिया अन्य commemorative वस्तुएं, ऐसे as कलाई घड़ियाँ, instead of rings.
The number of championships जीती by एनबीए सुपरस्टार is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a मापन of their greatness.
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे एनबीए championships जीती साथ 11 शीर्षक दौरान उसके 13-year playing career.
He जीती उसके पहला चैंपियनशिप साथ the बोस्टन Celtics in his rookie year.
Afterwards, he went on to जीत 10 championships in the अगला 12 सालो, सहित आठ consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966.
He जीती the पिछला दो championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
Russell 's teammate, Sam Jones, won 10 championships इससे 1959 to 1969, the दूसरी सबसे in एनबीए इतिहास.
Four Celtics players, Tom Heinsohn, K. C. जोन्स, satch सैंडर्स और जॉन havlicek, जीती आठ championships each.
Two other Celtics, Jim Loscutoff and फ़्रैंक रैमसे, जीती सात championships प्रत्येक.
Four players, Bob Cousy, Kareem abdul-jabbar, माइकल जॉर्डन और scottie pippen, जीती छह championships each.
Jordan and pippen हैं सदस्यों of the शिकागो bulls टोली जो जीती तीन लगातार championships twice in the 1990s.
Robert Horry and John salley हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी to have जीती the championships साथ तीन अलग teams.
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets, the Los Angeles Lakers and the San Antonio Spurs, while Salley won चार championships साथ the डेट्रॉयट पिस्टन्स, the bulls और the लेकर्स.
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only players to win two championships साथ दो अलग टीमों in लगातार seasons.
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, जबकि केर जीती लगातार championships साथ the bulls और the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement results to the true मान, परिशुद्धता to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the मापन
In the fields of science, engineering, industry, and statistics, the accuracy of a मापन प्रणाली is the उपाधि of निकटता of माप of a मात्रा to कि मात्रा 's वास्तविक ( सच्चा ) value.
The precision of a मापन प्रणाली, भी पुकारा reproducibility or repeatability, is the उपाधि to जिससे दोहराया माप under unchanged conditions show the same results.
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial उपयोग, वे हैं deliberately contrasted in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the scientific method.
A मापन प्रणाली can be सटीक लकिन नहीं precise, precise लकिन नहीं सटीक, neither, or both.
For example, if an experiment contains a systematic error, then increasing the नमूना आकार generally increases परिशुद्धता लकिन करता नहीं improve सटीकता.
The result would be a सतत yet inaccurate स्ट्रिंग of परिणाम इससे the flawed experiment.
Eliminating the व्यवस्थित गलती improves सटीकता लकिन करता नहीं बदलें परिशुद्धता.
A मापन प्रणाली is designated मान्य if it is दोनो सटीक और precise.
Related terms include bias ( non- random or directed effects caused by a factor or factors unrelated to the स्वतंत्र परिवर्तनीय ) और गलती ( यादृच्छिक variability ).
the शब्दावली is भी लागू to अप्रत्यक्ष measurements—that is, मान प्राप्त by a computational procedure from observed data.
In addition to accuracy and precision, measurements may also have a measurement resolution, which is the smallest बदलें in the underlying शारीरिक मात्रा कि produces a जवाब in the measurement.
In the case of पूरा reproducibility, ऐसे as जब rounding a क्रमांक to a representable फ्लोटिंग point number, the word precision has a meaning not related to reproducibility.
For example, in the IEEE 754-2008 standard it means the number of bits in the significand, so it is used as a माप लिये the सापेक्ष सटीकता साथ जिससे an मनमानी क्रमांक can be represented.
Fuck in इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the अधिनियम of sexual intercourse.
It is an English word that is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
The उत्पत्ति of the शब्द is obscure.
it is प्रायः माना to be पहला attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा, a क्रिया, an क्रियाशील or an adverb.
वहीँ हैं अनेक आम वाक्यांश जिससे मेक उपयोग of the शब्द, as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Animated, color-coded मैप प्रर्दशित the विभिन्न महाद्वीपों and regions.
Depending on the convention और मॉडल, कुछ महाद्वीपों may be संचित or subdivided : लिये उदाहरण, यूरेशिया is सबसे प्रायः subdivided into यूरोपीय और एशिया ( रेड शेड्स ), जबकि उत्तर और दक्षिण अमेरिका are sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ).
A महाद्वीप is एक of अनेक बहुत विशाल landmasses on Earth.
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict मापदण्ड, साथ up to सात regions commonly regarded as continents—they हैं ( इससे largest in आकार to smallest ) : एशिया, अफ़्रीकी, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia.
In geology, continents हैं वर्णित by अर्थात् of tectonic प्लेटों.
Plate tectonics is the प्रक्रम और पढ़ाई of the गति, टक्कर और प्रभाग of महाद्वीपों, earlier known as continental drift.
बाइकर बॉयज is a 2003 फिल्मी परिचय a समूह of भूमिगत motorcycle drag racers.
It सितारों laurence फिशबर्न, djimon hounsou, डेरेक ल्यूक, meagan शुभ, और larenz टेट और is written and directed by Reggie Rock Bythewood.
It भी सुविधाएँ लिसा bonet, ऑरलैंडो जोन्स, बच्चा चट्टान और Vanessa Bell Calloway.
For the स्टील पैंथर सोंग, देखिए महसूस the Steel.
Community property is a marital प्रॉपर्टी शासन कि originated in सिविल विधि jurisdictions और is अभी also found in some common law jurisdictions.
The states of the United States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it थी inherited इससे मैक्सिको 's ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली, जिससे itself थी inherited इससे स्पेनी विधि ( a रोमन -derived सिविल विधि प्रणाली ) और ultimately from the Visigoths.
While under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial community system of acquests और gains, जिससे replaced the परंपरागत फ्रेंच जातियाँ of movables and acquests in its civil law system.
Map of the United States साथ जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी राज्य highlighted in रेड.
In addition to the highlighted states, Alaska is a separate प्रॉपर्टी राज्य कि permits युगल to ऑप्ट into a जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी व्यवस्था.
In a community property क्षेत्राधिकार, सबसे प्रॉपर्टी acquired दौरान the विवाह ( मगर लिये उपहार or inheritances ) —the जातियाँ, or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce, annulment or death.
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence of specific evidence that होता पाइंट to a contrary निष्कर्ष लिये a particular टुकड़ा of प्रॉपर्टी.
प्रभाग of जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी may लो प्लेस by item, by splitting all items or by value.
In some jurisdictions, such as California, a 50/50 division of community प्रॉपर्टी is सख्ती mandated by statute, अर्थ कि the फ़ोकस तब शिफ्ट to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property.
In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a तलाक अदालत may डिक्री an `` निष्पक्ष वितरण `` of जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी, जिससे may परिणाम in an गैरबराबरी प्रभाग of ऐसे.
In non-community प्रॉपर्टी राज्य प्रॉपर्टी may be विभाजित by निष्पक्ष distribution.
Generally speaking, the property that each partner brings into the विवाह or receives by तोहफा, bequest or मक्कारी दौरान विवाह is called separate property ( i.e., not community property ).
See प्रभाग of प्रॉपर्टी.
प्रभाग of जातियाँ debts may नहीं be the same as division of community property.
For example, in California, community प्रॉपर्टी is जरूरी to be विभाजित `` बराबर '' जबकि जातियाँ कर्ज़ is जरूरी to be divided `` equitably ''.
Property that is owned by one spouse before the marriage is the पृथक प्रॉपर्टी of कि जीवनसाथी, जबतक the प्रॉपर्टी is `` transmuted '' into जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी.
The rules for this vary इससे क्षेत्राधिकार to क्षेत्राधिकार.
The Duke और duchess of कैम्ब्रिज हिलाता to the भीड at The Mall shortly after the wedding.
The wedding of Prince William, ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, और कैथरीन मिडलटन took प्लेस on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London.
The groom, Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, is the ज्येष्ठ बेटे of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, और is दूसरी in the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन और the तख्तों of fifteen other Commonwealth realms.
The bride, Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest of तीन children of माइकल और carole मिडलटन of bucklebury, बर्कशायर.
The Dean of Westminster, John Hall, presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, conducted the marriage ; रिचर्ड chartres, the बिशप of लंदन, preached the उपदेश ; और a पढना थी दिए by the bride 's brother, James.
William 's best man was his brother, प्रिंस हैरी, जबकि the बहू 's सिस्टर, पिप्पा, थी नौकरानी of इज्ज़त.
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and दूल्हे 's परिवारों, as खूब as अनेक विदेशी रॉयल्स, राजनयिकों, और the युगल 's chosen personal guests.
After the ceremony, the युगल बना the परंपरागत appearance on the balcony of Buckingham Palace.
As Prince William was not the heir apparent to the सिंहासन, the विवाह थी नहीं a पूरा राज्य अवसर और अनेक विवरण यहूद बाएँ to the युगल to decide, such as much of the guest list of about 1,900.
प्रिंस विलियम और Kate Middleton met in 2001.
Their engagement on 20 अक्तूबर 2010 थी घोषित on 16 नवम्बर 2010.
The build-up to the विवाह और the अवसर itself आकर्षित much मीडिया ध्यान, होने compared in अनेक तरीके साथ the 1981 marriage of William 's parents.
The occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and featured अनेक ceremonial पहलुओं, सहित उपयोग of the राज्य carriages और भूमिकाएँ लिये the पैर गार्ड और household Cavalry.
Events were held around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events आरपार कनाडा, over 5,000 गली पार्टियों यहूद आयोजित throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम, और एक लाख लोगों lined the रूट between वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी and Buckingham Palace.
The ceremony was viewed live by tens of लाखो अधिक around the संसार, सहित 72 लाख on the YouTube Royal Channel.
In the संयुक्त किंगडम, टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस peaked at 26.3 लाख दर्शक, साथ a कुल of 36.7 million watching part of the coverage.
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व, टेलीविज़न मेजबान, फ़ैशन मॉडल, and actress.
minnillo थी भी नामित मिस टीन यूएसए in 1998.
She has महरूम a नई यॉर्क -आधारd correspondent लिये entertainment tonight और hosted Total Request Live on MTV.
A hand ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity स्तिथ at the समाप्त of an भुजा or forelimb of primates and humans, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs.
A few other vertebrates ऐसे as the कोआला ( जिससे रै दो opposable thumbs on प्रत्येक `` हाथ '' और फिंगरप्रिंट remarkably similar to human fingerprints ) are often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs.
Hands are the main structures लिये physically manipulating the पर्यावरण, प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो सकल मोटर skills ( such as grasping a large object ) and fine motor skills ( such as picking up a small pebble ).
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of तंत्रिका endings on the देह, हैं the richest सोर्स of tactile प्रतिक्रिया, और have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands.
Like अन्य युग्म अंगों ( आँखें, फीट, टाँगे ), प्रत्येक हाथ is dominantly नियंत्रित by the opposing दिमाग गोलार्ध, so कि handedness, or the पसन्दीदा hand choice for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil, reflects individual brain functioning.
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example, in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of whether the तीन अंक of the बर्ड हाथ शामिल the वही समजात घाटा of दो अंक as in the डायनासोर हाथ.
The human hand has 27 हड्डियों, नहीं सहित the sesamoid हड्डियों which number varies between people.
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal, इंटरमीडिएट और distal ) of the उंगलियाँ.
the metacarpals हैं the हड्डियों कि connects the fingers and the wrist.
Each इंसान हाथ रै 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones.
Too Cool was a professional wrestling tag team और पूर्व गुट सबसे notably क्रियाशील in संसार कुश्ती federation/entertainment between 1998 और 2001 और लिये a छोटी समय in 2004.
Basic digital सचेतक क्लॉक बगैर a रेडियो.
The चिह्नित in the top-left of the प्रदर्शक indicates that the time is 4:00pm, not 4:00am.
A 1969 radio alarm clock ( Sony digimatic 8fc-59w ) साथ an जल्दी mechanical-digital प्रदर्शक.
A digital क्लॉक is a प्रकार of क्लॉक कि प्रदर्शक the समय डिजिटली, i.e. in numerals or अन्य प्रतीकों, as opposed to an एनालॉग clock, where the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands.
Digital घड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः संबद्ध साथ इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ड्राइव, लकिन the `` डिजिटल '' वर्णन refers only to the display, not to the drive mechanism.
( दोनो एनालॉग और डिजिटल घड़ियाँ can be चलित either mechanically or electronically, लकिन `` clockwork '' mechanisms with digital displays are rare. )
The biggest डिजिटल क्लॉक is the lichtzeitpegel ( `` लाइट समय स्तर '' ) on the television tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf, Germany.
Family Guy creator Seth macfarlane भी provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin, stewie griffin, ब्रायन griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड sitcom कि सुविधाएँ पाँच प्रमुख आवाज़ actors, and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of show निर्माता सेठ macfarlane, एलेक्स borstein, सेठ ग्रीन, mila kunis ( जो replaced लेसी chabert बाद the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice actors include पैट्रिक warburton, आदम वेस्ट, जॉन G. ब्रेनन, निकोल सुलीवान and Jennifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast सदस्यों provide आवाज़ें लिये multiple characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the विभिन्न अक्षर personalities on the दिखाएँ, चित्रण प्रेरणा इससे हस्तियाँ और पॉप संस्कृति.
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one कर्ता, बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ बाएँ the श्रेणी or था conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` और macfarlane रै भी जीती an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन और an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न उत्पादन, हालांकि no अन्य डाल सदस्य रै जीती an पुरस्कार लिये उनके कार्य on the series.
The five sets of the फलक खेल एकाधिकार चित्रित यहाँ दिखाएँ the एवोल्यूशन of the खेल 's कलाकृति और डिजाइन in the United States from 1935–2005.
The history of the फलक खेल एकाधिकार can be traced वापस to the जल्दी 20th सदी.
the earliest ज्ञात डिज़ाइन थी by the अमरीकी, एलिज़ाबेथ magie, patented in 1904 but existing as early as 1902.
Magie 's original intent was to publish a फलक खेल to illustrate an आर्थिक principle, namely the georgist अवधारणा of a सिंगल जमीन value tax.
A श्रेणी of फलक खेल यहूद विकसित इससे 1906 through the 1930s कि involved the buying and selling of land and the development of that land.
By 1934, a फलक खेल था महरूम निर्मित much जैसे the संस्करण of एकाधिकार बेची by पार्कर भाइयो और its related companies through the rest of the 20th century, and into the 21st.
Several people, mostly in the Midwestern संयुक्त राज्य और निकट the ईस्ट coast, contributed to the खेल 's डिज़ाइन और एवोल्यूशन.
By the 1970s, the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become लोकप्रिय लोकगीत ; it थी मुद्रित in the खेल 's निर्देश लिये अनेक सालो, in a 1974 book devoted to Monopoly, and was cited in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007.
Even a guide to family games published for रीडर 's डाइजेस्ट in 2003 तभी दिया क्रेडिट to darrow और एलिज़ाबेथ magie, erroneously stating कि magie 's असली खेल थी निर्मित in the 1800s, और नहीं acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game, and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers.
भी in the 1970s, प्राध्यापक ralph anspach, जो था खुद प्रकाशित a फलक खेल intended to illustrate the सिद्धान्त of दोनो monopolies और विश्वास busting, fought Parker Brothers and its then parent company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game.
through the शोध of anspach और अन्य, much of the early history of the game was `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady, author of the 1974 किताब the एकाधिकार किताब : रणनीति और tactics of the संसार 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल over the वास्तविक इतिहास of the खेल on बैरी farber 's नई यॉर्क नगर बात दिखाएँ in 1975.
क्युकी of the lengthy अदालत प्रक्रम, सहित appeals, the विधिक औकात of पार्कर भाइयो ' trademarks on the खेल was not settled until 1985.
The game 's name remains a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of पार्कर भाइयो, as do इसके विशिष्ट design elements.
At the conclusion of the court case, the game 's logo and graphic design elements became भाग of a larger एकाधिकार ब्रांड, licensed by पार्कर भाइयो ' जनक कंपनियाँ onto a किस्में of वस्तुएं through the present day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s and 1980s, and several books and journal आलेख on the विषय, हास्ब्रो ( पार्कर भाइयो ' वर्तमान जनक कम्पनी ) किया नहीं acknowledge कोई of the खेल 's इतिहास पहले चार्ल्स darrow on इसके आधिकारिक एकाधिकार जालस्थल as recently as June 2012.
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in सामग्री प्रकाशित or प्रायोजित by उन्हें, at तनिक as recently as 2006.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय tournaments, पहला आयोजित in the early 1970s, continue to the present, with the next world championship likely scheduled for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a नई पीढी of spin-off फलक खेल और कार्ड खेल appeared on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean.
In 1989, the first of अनेक वीडियो खेल और कंप्यूटर खेल संस्करण थी published.
Since 1994, many official variants of the game, based on locations other than Atlantic City, New Jersey ( the official U.S. सेटिंग ) or लंदन ( the आधिकारिक राष्ट्रमंडल सेटिंग, excepting कनाडा ), have महरूम प्रकाशित by हास्ब्रो or its licensees.
In 2008, Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the मानक u.s. संस्करण of the खेल to मैच the uk संस्करण, हालांकि the u.S. मानक संस्करण maintains the Atlantic City property names.
Hasbro also modified the आधिकारिक लोगो to दे the `` mr. एकाधिकार '' अक्षर a 3-d computer-generated look, which has since been adopted by licensees USAopoly, Winning Moves and Winning Solutions.
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed die, introduced in 2006 's एकाधिकार : the आचमन संस्करण by जीतना चालें खेल, in संस्करण उत्पादित directly by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship Edition ).
In baseball, a बलिदान मक्खी is a batted बॉल कि satisfies चार criteria:
There are fewer than दो outs जब the बॉल is hit.
The ball is hit to the आउटफील्ड ( मेला or बेईमानी ), or to infield foul territory.
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly ( alternatively if the बैटर होता have महरूम आउट if नहीं लिये an गलती or if the outfielder बूंदें the बॉल और another runner is put out ).
A runner who is already on आधार स्कोर on the खेल.
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to कारण a teammate to स्कोर a चलाएं, जबकि sacrificing उसके own ability to do so.
Minnesota ( ) is a U.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the midwestern संयुक्त States.
Minnesota थी carved आउट of the पूर्वी हाफ of the मिनेसोटा territory और admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858.
ज्ञात as the `` जमीन of 10,000 झीलों '', the राज्य 's नाम comes from a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water ''.
Those waters, together with forests, parks, and wilderness areas, offer निवासियों और पर्यटकों a किस्में of बाहरी recreational अवसर.
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive और the 21st सबसे populous of the U.S. states.
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area ( ज्ञात as the `` जुड़वा शहरों '' ), the बीच of परिवहन, कारोबार, उद्योग, शिक्षा, सरकारी और घर to an internationally known arts community.
The remainder of the राज्य consists of पश्चिमी prairies अभी दिए over to intensive कृषि ; पतझड़ी वनों in the southeast, अभी साफ, farmed और settled ; and the less populated North Woods, used for mining, forestry, and recreation.
Minnesota is known for its relatively मिश्रित सोशल और राजनैतिक orientations, और रै a ऊँची रेट of नागरिक भागीदारी और वोटर turnout.
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest राज्य, और रै a अत्यधिक साक्षर population.
The विशाल बहुमत of निवासियों हैं of scandinavian and German descent.
The state is known as a बीच of scandinavian American culture.
जातीय विविधता रै increased in recent decades.
Substantial influxes of Asian, अफ़्रीकी, और लैटिन अमरीकी आप्रवासियों have joined the वंशजों of यूरोपीय settlers और the original Native American inhabitants.
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers ), often a government department, corporation, foundation or विश्वास, to a, प्रायः ( लकिन नहीं सदा ) a nonprofit एंटिटी, शैक्षणिक संस्था, कारोबार or an व्यक्तिगत.
In order to प्राप्त a ग्रान्ट, कुछ रूप of `` ग्रान्ट लिखने '' प्रायः referred to as either a proposal or an application is usually required.
Most grants are बना to निधि a विशिष्ट प्रोजेक्ट और आवश्यकता कुछ स्तर of अनुपालन and reporting.
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder, either on the आवेदक 's अपना पहल or in जवाब to a निवेदन लिये Proposal from the funder.
Other grants can be given to individuals, ऐसे as पीड़ितों of प्राकृतिक आपदाओं or individuals who seek to open a small business.
Sometimes grant makers require grant जरुरतमंदों to have कुछ रूप of tax-exempt औकात, be a पंजीकृत nonprofit संगठन or a local government.
For example, tiered funding लिये a फ्रीवे हैं बहुत विशाल अनुदान negotiated at सरकारी policy level.
however छोटी अनुदान may be provided by a सरकारी agency ( e.g. municipal government ).
Project-related funding involving सरकारें, कारोबार, समुदायों, और individuals is प्रायः arranged by अनुप्रयोग either in writing or online.
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have been characterized साथ the सबसे stable होने 60co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 सालो, 57co साथ a half-life of 271.79 दिनों, 56co साथ a half-life of 77.27 दिनों, और 58co साथ a half-life of 70.86 days.
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives कि हैं कम than 18 घंटों और the बहुमत of ये have half-lives that are less than 1 second.
This element also has 11 meta राज्य, सब of जिससे have half-lives less than 15 minutes.
The isotopes of cobalt range in परमाणु वज़न इससे 47co to 75co.
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most abundant stable समस्थानिक, 59co, is इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर और the प्राथमिक विधि of क्षय लिये those of वृहद than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay.
The primary decay products पहले 59co हैं आयरन isotopes and the primary products after are nickel isotopes.
Standard परमाणु द्रव्यमान : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who स्थानांतरित my चीज ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life, published in 1998, is a प्रेरक किताब by स्पेंसर जॉनसन लिखा in the स्टाइल of a मिसाल or कारोबार fable.
It describes change in one 's work and life, and four typical reactions to said change by दो चूहे और दो `` littlepeople '', दौरान उनके हंट लिये चीज.
A New York Times business बेस्टसेलर चूंकि रिलीज, जो स्थानांतरित my चीज ?
remained on the list for almost five years और खर्च over 200 सप्ताह on प्रकाशक साप्ताहिक 's सजिल्द nonfiction list.
It रै बेची अधिक than 26 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी in 37 भाषाएं और remains to be one of the best-selling business books.
Nikita sergeyevich khrushchev ( – सितंबर 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War.
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the सोवियत संघ इससे 1953 to 1964, और as अध्यक्ष of the परिषद of मंत्रियों, or प्रीमियर, इससे 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-stalinization of the सोवियत संघ, लिये बैकिंग the प्रगति of the जल्दी सोवियत स्पेस कार्यक्रम, और लिये अनेक relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy.
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in 1964, replacing उसे साथ लियोनिद brezhnev as पहला सचिव और एलेक्सी kosygin as Premier.
Khrushchev was born in the रूसी गाँव of kalinovka in 1894, बंद to the present-day किनारा between Russia and Ukraine.
He was employed as a metalworker in his youth, और दौरान the रूसी सिविल युद्ध थी a राजनैतिक commissar.
With the सहायता of lazar kaganovich, he worked उसके way up the Soviet hierarchy.
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges, और स्वीकृत हज़ारों of रखवाले.
In 1939, स्टालिन भेजा उसे to govern युक्त, और he जारी the purges there.
During कया थी ज्ञात in the सोवियत संघ as the ग्रेट patriotic युद्ध ( पूर्वी सामने of संसार युद्ध ii ), Khrushchev was again a commissar, serving as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals.
khrushchev थी उपस्थित at the खूनी रक्षा of stalingrad, a fact he took great pride in throughout his life.
After the war, he returned to युक्त पहले होने recalled to मास्को as एक of Stalin 's close advisers.
In the power struggle triggered by स्टालिन 's मौत in 1953, khrushchev, बाद अनेक सालो, उभरा विजयी.
On फ़रवरी 25, 1956, at the 20th पार्टी कॉंग्रेस, he वितरित the `` रहस्य वाक, '' denouncing Stalin 's purges and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union.
His domestic नीतियों, aimed at bettering the जीवनदान of ordinary नागरिकों, यहूद प्रायः अप्रभावी, विशेषकर in the area of agriculture.
Hoping eventually to rely on मिसाइलें लिये नेशनल रक्षा, khrushchev ordered प्रमुख कटौती in conventional forces.
Despite the cuts, khrushchev 's नियम देखी the tensest सालो of the ठंडा युद्ध, culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic, विशेषकर by उसके उभरते विरोधियों, जो चुपचाप रोज़ in शक्ति और अपदस्थ उसे in October 1964.
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of Soviet शक्ति struggles, लकिन थी pensioned बंद साथ an अपार्टमेंट in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
His lengthy memoirs यहूद smuggled to the वेस्ट और published in part in 1970.
khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease.
Upper जठरांत्र ( gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract.
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the स्नायु of treitz, जिससे connects the चौथी portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
Upper GI bleeds are माना चिकित्सा emergencies, और आवश्यकता प्रवेश to हॉस्पिटल for urgent diagnosis and management.
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy, अपर gi hemorrhage is अभी प्रायः treated बगैर surgery.
World population estimates इससे 1800 to 2100, आधारित on un 2010 projections ( रेड, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in ब्लू.
According to the highest estimate, the world जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान, it may decline to 6 billion.
The संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल क्रमांक of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is estimated to number billion by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb ).
The USCB estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations जनसांख्यिकी निधि, it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
The world population has अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The उच्चतम दरों of विकास – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख, और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख, जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल, और हैं expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further विकास, stagnation, or भी overall मनाही in the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ, और उर्जा संसाधन.
Philips Lumileds lighting कम्पनी is the निर्माता of a चौड़ी दायरा of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
It is a now a fully स्वामित्व प्रभाग of फिलिप्स lighting.
knuckle mnemonic लिये the क्रमांक of दिनों in each month of the Gregorian Calendar.
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day month.
A mnemonic (, साथ a मूक `` m '' ), or mnemonic यंत्र, is any learning technique that aids information retention.
mnemonics उद्देश्य to अनुवाद सूचना into a रूप कि the human brain can retain better than its original form.
Even the process of applying this conversion might already सहायता the ट्रांसफ़र of सूचना to long-term memory.
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for सूचियाँ और in auditory रूप, ऐसे as छोटी कविताएं, acronyms, or यादगार वाक्यांश, लकिन mnemonics can भी be लिये अन्य types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms.
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial, personal, surprising, physical, यौन, humorous, or वरना 'relatable ' सूचना, बल्कि than अधिक अमूर्त or impersonal फ़ॉर्म of सूचना.
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), meaning `` of memory '' और is सम्बन्धित to mnemosyne ( `` स्मरण '' ), the नाम of the देवी of मेमोरी in Greek mythology.
Both of these words are निकला इससे μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` स्मरण, memory ''.
Mnemonics in antiquity were most often माना in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of कया is आज ज्ञात as the Art of memory.
Ancient Greeks and Romans विशिष्ट between दो प्रकार of मेमोरी : the 'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory.
The former is inborn, and is the एक कि everyone उपयोग automatically और बगैर सोच.
The artificial memory in contrast has to be trained and developed through the सीखना और practicing of a किस्में of mnemonic तकनीकों.
mnemonic प्रणालियों हैं खास तकनीकों or रणनीति consciously used to improve memory, it helps employ information already stored in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task.
अध्यक्ष बुश हस्ताक्षर the no चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे Act at Hamilton H.S. in Hamilton, Ohio.
The No Child Left पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 ( nclb ) is a संयुक्त राज्य अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस कि is a reauthorization of the elementary और द्वितीयक Education Act, which included Title I, the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students.
NCLB supports standards-based शिक्षा सुधार आधारित on the आधार कि सेटिंग high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education.
The अधिनियम requires राज्य to develop आकलन in basic skills.
States must give ये आकलन to सब विद्यार्थी at चुनें ग्रेड स्तर in अनुक्रम to प्राप्त संघीय स्कूल funding.
The अधिनियम करता नहीं assert a नेशनल उपलब्धि मानक ; मानकों are set by each individual state.
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through annual परीक्षण, सालाना अकादमिक प्रगति, रपट ताश, टीचर योग्यता, and funding changes.
The bill passed in the U.S. कॉंग्रेस साथ bipartisan support.
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950, चलित by अल्बर्ट namatjira
A pickup ट्रक or pick-up, प्रायः बस referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट motor vehicle with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a हल्का ड्यूटी chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित, एकीकृत bed, as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों, प्रायः आधारित on a निजी car chassis, लकिन भी प्रायः on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some देशों have उनके अपना शर्तें समान to पिकअप, ऐसे as ute in Australia and New Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup ट्रक हैं somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय, जहाँ वैन और light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne और पोप एड्रियन i shows a well-bred मध्यकालीन घोड़ा साथ मेहराबदार गर्दन, परिष्कृत head and elegant gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size, build और नस्ल इससे the आधुनिक घोड़ा, और यहूद, on औसत, smaller.
They were also more सेंट्रल to समाज than उनके आधुनिक counterparts, होने अनिवार्य for war, agriculture, and transport.
Consequently, specific types of horse developed, अनेक of जिससे have no आधुनिक समतुल्य.
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and equestrianism is vital for any विश्लेषण of the मध्यकालीन घोड़ा, शोधकर्ताओं भी need to consider वृत्तचित्र ( दोनो लिखा और सचित्र ) और पुरातत्व प्रमाण.
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by नस्ल, लकिन बल्कि by use.
This led them to be described, लिये उदाहरण, as `` chargers `` ( युद्ध घोड़े ), `` palfreys `` ( सवारी घोड़े ), cart horses or packhorses.
सन्दर्भ is भी दिए to उनके प्लेस of उत्पत्ति, ऐसे as `` स्पेनी घोड़े, '' but whether this referred to one breed or several is unknown.
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval दस्तावेज़ or साहित्य is the लचीलापन of the मध्यकालीन भाषाएं, जहाँ अनेक शब्द can be प्रयुक्त लिये एक बात ( or, conversely, several objects are referred to by one word ).
Words such as ' courser ' और 'चार्जr ' हैं प्रयुक्त interchangeably ( भी भीतर एक दस्तावेज़ ), और जहाँ एक एपिक may बोलो disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological अग्रिम in घुड़सवार उपकरण, प्रायः introduced इससे अन्य संस्कृतियों, अनुमत for significant changes in both warfare and agriculture.
In particular, improved डिजाइन लिये the solid-treed काठी as खूब as the arrival of the stirrup, horseshoe and horse collar were significant advances in medieval society.
Consequently, the assumptions and theories developed by इतिहासकारों हैं नहीं निर्णायक, और बहस स्टिल rages on अनेक मुद्दे, ऐसे as the प्रजनन or आकार of the घोड़ा, और a क्रमांक of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject.
The म्यूज़िक man is a musical साथ किताब, म्यूज़िक, और गीत by मेरेडिथ willson, आधारित on a story by Willson and Franklin Lacey.
The plot concerns con man Harold हिल, जो मुद्राएँ as a लड़कों ' बैंड आयोजक और नेता और बिकता बैंड यंत्र और वर्दी to भोली townsfolk before skipping town with the cash.
In River City, Iowa, prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him, लकिन जब हिल helps उसके younger bhai overcome उसके भय of सोशल interactions due to उसके लिस्प, marian begins to पतन in प्रेम साथ हेरोल्ड.
Harold, in turn falling लिये marian, risks होने caught to win her.
In 1957, the दिखाएँ became a hit on ब्रॉडवे, जीतना पाँच टोनी पुरस्कार, सहित बेहतरीन Musical, and running for 1,375 performances.
The cast album won the first ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये `` बेहतरीन असली डाल एल्बम '' और थी क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड चार्ट for 245 weeks.
The show 's success led to revivals and a popular 1962 फिल्मी अनुकूलन और a 2003 टेलीविज़न रीमेक.
It अक्सर is उत्पादित by दोनो पेशेवर और amateur theater companies.
निरीक्षक 's व्हील
A surveyor 's wheel, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle व्हील, measuring व्हील, or perambulator is a यंत्र लिये measuring distance.
largest non-polar deserts
Sand dunes in the Rub ' al खली ( `` खाली क्वार्टर '' ) of Saudi Arabia.
makhtesh रेमन, negev मरुस्थल, इसराईल
A desert is a landscape or region of land that is very dry because of low rainfall amounts ( वर्षण ), प्रायः रै छोटी कवरेज by पौधे, और in जिससे स्ट्रीम शुष्क up जबतक वे हैं supplied by जल इससे बाहर areas.
Deserts can also be वर्णित as क्षेत्रों जहाँ अधिक जल is खोया by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation.
Desert plants must have खास adaptations to जीवित साथ इस छोटी water.
Deserts generally receive less than 25 cm of बरसात ( वर्षण ) प्रत्येक साल.
semideserts or steppes हैं regions जिससे receive between and.
In the köppen जलवायु वर्गीकरण प्रणाली, रेगिस्तान हैं classed as BWh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert ).
In the thornthwaite जलवायु वर्गीकरण प्रणाली, रेगिस्तान होता be वर्गीकृत as arid megathermal climates.
संसार युद्ध i ( wwi ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, और the पहला संसार युद्ध or संसार युद्ध i thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, सहित 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants यहूद मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट powers of Europe.
More immediately, the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला little until 1917.
On the पूर्वी सामने, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive साथ the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which था इसके अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a total war.
By the end of the war, four major इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
the successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक छोटी states.
The League of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार युद्ध ii.
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 song originally लिखा by रॉबर्ट जोखिम और बना प्रसिद्ध by सिंगर cyndi Lauper.
It was the first प्रमुख सिंगल released by lauper as a सोलो कलाकार और the lead-off सिंगल from her debut album She 's So Unusual.
Lauper’s version gained मान्यता as a feminist गान और प्रचारित by an award-winning वीडियो.
It has महरूम covered on either an एल्बम or in सजीव कॉन्सर्ट by over 30 other artists.
The single was Lauper 's breakthrough hit, reaching # 2 on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 और बनने a विश्वव्यापी hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984.
It remains एक of lauper 's हस्ताक्षर गीतों और थी a widely लोकप्रिय song during the era of its release, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 महानतम पॉप गीतों ' : 1-50 '', `` रोलिंग स्टोन : `` the 100 शीर्ष म्यूज़िक वीडियो '' '' और the `` vh1 : 100 महानतम वीडियो '' lists ranked the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, respectively.
The song received a Grammy पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये रिकार्ड of the साल और बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन.
दृश्य of defibrillator electrode position and placement.
Defibrillation is a आम उपचार लिये life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, और pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of विद्युत उर्जा to the प्रभावित दिल साथ a यंत्र पुकारा a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the दिल मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, और allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the देह 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the निदान of treatable लय, अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to उपयोग उन्हें सफलतापूर्वक साथ छोटी, or in some cases no training at all.
The Cato Institute is an अमरीकी libertarian सोचो टैंक headquartered in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray rothbard, ed क्रेन और चार्ल्स koch, अध्यक्ष of the फलक और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी of the संगुटिका Koch Industries, Inc..
In July 1976, the name was बदला to the केटो संस्थान.
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank Index, Cato is the 6th most influential US आधारित सोचो टैंक, रैंकिंग 3rd in आर्थिक नीति और 2nd in Social Policy.
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to बढ़ाएँ the समझना of पब्लिक नीतियों आधारित on the सिद्धान्त of सीमित सरकारी, फ़्री बाज़ार, individual liberty, and peace.
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate, advocate, promote, and disseminate लागू नीति प्रस्ताव कि बनाएँ फ़्री, खोलें, और सिविल समाजों in the संयुक्त राज्य और throughout the world. ''
Cato scholars were critical of जार्ज W. बुश 's रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन ( 2001–2009 ) on अनेक मुद्दे, सहित the इराकी युद्ध, सिविल लिबर्टीज, शिक्षा, कृषि, उर्जा policy, and excessive government spending.
On other issues, they supported Bush administration initiatives, most notably स्वास्थ्य परवाह, सोशल सुरक्षा, वैश्विक वार्मिंग, कर नीति, और आव्रजन.
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election, केटो विद्वानों criticized दोनो major-party उम्मीदवार, जॉन मैक्केन और बराक Obama.
Cato has criticized अध्यक्ष ओबामा 's stances on नीति मुद्दे चूंकि उसके उद्घाटन, ऐसे as फिस्कल stimulus, healthcare सुधार, विदेशी नीति, और the युद्ध on दवाएँ, जबकि supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy.
ड्रैकुला is an 1897 गोथिक हॉरर अनोखा by Irish author Bram Stoker.
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count Dracula, the novel tells the स्टोरी of ड्रैकुला 's attempt to relocate इससे transylvania to इंग्लैण्ड, और the बैटल between ड्रैकुला और a छोटी समूह of मेन और महिलाओं led by प्राध्यापक Abraham Van Helsing.
Dracula has been assigned to many literary genres including पिशाच साहित्य, हॉरर fiction, the गोथिक अनोखा और आक्रमण literature.
The novel touches on themes such as the role of women in विक्टोरियन संस्कृति, यौन प्रथाओं, आव्रजन, उपनिवेशवाद, और post-colonialism.
Although Stoker did not इफ़तेरा the पिशाच, he पारिभाषित इसके आधुनिक रूप, और the अनोखा रै शाखित numerous theatrical, film and television interpretations.
Quidditch is a प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in the wizarding संसार of the हैरी कुम्हार ब्रह्मांड, और is इससे the श्रेणी of children 's novels and movies.
It is an अत्यधिक अशिष्ट लकिन बहुत लोकप्रिय semi-contact sport, played by wizards and witches.
Matches are played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks, using चार गेंदें और छह elevated ring-shaped लक्ष्य, तीन on प्रत्येक side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ).
In the Harry Potter universe, Quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the स्थिति कि संघ फ़ुटबॉल holds as a globally popular sport.
The sport is monumental throughout the wizarding संसार.
हैरी plays an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति लिये उसके हाउस टोली at हॉग्वार्ट्स : he is the seeker and becomes the captain in his sixth year there.
Regional and अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिताओं हैं उल्लेखित throughout the series.
In Goblet of आग, quidditch at हॉग्वार्ट्स is रद्द लिये the Tri-Wizard Tournament, but Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup.
In addition, Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the tri-wizard टूर्नामेंट ), to कैप्चर a उड़ती कुंजी in पारस 's स्टोन, और on दो कुंजी अवसरों in deathly hallows — getting थाम of ravenclaw 's diadem, और दौरान the फाइनल लड़ो साथ voldemort — the `` unerring कौशल of the seeker '' is उपयोगी to उसे in snatching the elder wand out of the air.
Harry Potter has owned two broomsticks, the nimbus 2000 और the firebolt, दोनो of जिससे हैं नष्ट by the series ' end.
The game has been अपनाया in the रियल संसार in the रूप of मगलू quidditch.
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United States consisting of two घरों : the निम्नतर हाउस ज्ञात as the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और the अपर हाउस ज्ञात as the सीनेट.
कॉंग्रेस meets in the कैपिटल in Washington, D.C.
Both प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटरों हैं चुनी through direct election.
Congress has a total of 535 voting सदस्यों : 435 सदस्यों in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और 100 सदस्यों in the Senate.
Members of the House of Representatives serve two-year शर्तें representing the लोगों of a ज़िला.
Congressional districts are apportioned to states by जनसांख्यिकी using the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी परिणाम, प्रत्येक राज्य in the संघ having at तनिक one representative in the House of Representatives.
Regardless of population, प्रत्येक of the 50 राज्य रै दो सीनेटरों ; the 100 सीनेटरों प्रत्येक serve a six-year term.
The terms are staggered so प्रत्येक दो सालो लगभग one-third of the Senate is up for election.
Each लड़खड़ाते समूह of one-third of the सीनेटरों हैं पुकारा 'classes '.
No state of the United राज्य रै दो सीनेटरों इससे the वही क्लास.
Most incumbents तलाश re-election, और उनके ऐतिहासिक likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent.
In August 2012, a Gallup poll reported कि congress’s स्वीकृति दरजा amongst अमेरिकी थी at 10 %, मिलान a 38-year low reached in November 2011.
`` A Little अधिक देश than कि '' is the शीर्षक of a सोंग लिखा by जॉय + रोरी 's रोरी ली feek, Wynn Varble, and Don Poythress, and recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin.
It was released in August 2009 as Corbin 's डेब्यू सिंगल और is शामिल on उसके self-titled debut album.
In April 2010, the song पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the देश म्यूज़िक चार्ट, बनाना कोर्बिन the पहला पुरूष सोलो कलाकार in सात years to send a debut single to Number One.
It रै महरूम certified सुनहरा by the RIAA.
The BlackBerry is a line of बेतार हैंडहेल्ड डिवाइस और सेवाएं designed और marketed by शोध In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry.
The first ब्लैकबेरी यंत्र, an ईमेल पेजर, थी released in 1999 ; the सबसे हाल ब्लैकबेरी डिवाइस, the z10 और q10, were announced on January 30, 2013.
The user इंटरफ़ेस varies by मॉडल ; सबसे विशेषता a शारीरिक क्वर्टी कुंजीपटल, जबकि नए पीढियां have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard.
A ब्लैकबेरी can shoot वीडियो, लो फ़ोटो, खेल म्यूज़िक, और perform ऑनलाइन कृत्यों such as web-browsing and emailing.
They can also भेजें और प्राप्त धक्का ईमेल और तत्काल संदेश जबकि maintaining a ऊँची स्तर of सुरक्षा through on-device message encryption, and are designed to function as personal digital assistants.
BlackBerry devices support a विशाल किस्में of तत्काल messaging सुविधाएँ, साथ the सबसे लोकप्रिय being the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service.
The BlackBerry PlayBook is a टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर offered by the company.
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in जून क्वार्टर of 2010 और the 200 millionth स्मार्टफोन थी shipped in सितंबर quarter of 2012.
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011, बनाना इसके निर्माता the छठे सबसे लोकप्रिय यंत्र मेकर ( 25 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री हैं smartphones ).
The consumer BlackBerry Internet Service is उपलब्धियाँ in 91 देशों विश्वव्यापी on over 500 मोबाईल सेवा ऑपरेटर using various mobile technologies.
As of सितंबर 2012, वहीँ were eighty million subscribers worldwide to BlackBerry.
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the उच्चतम penetrations of ब्लैकबेरी स्मार्टफ़ोन विश्वव्यापी, with up to about 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device.
BlackBerry, iPhone, Android, and Windows फोन हैं माना the चार प्रमुख स्मार्टफोन ब्रांड्स.
ब्लैकबेरी is widely referred to as `` crackberry '' in the संयुक्त राज्य, जिससे alludes to its excessive use by its owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine.
Use of the term CrackBerry became so फैली कि in नवम्बर 2006 वेबस्टर 's नई संसार कॉलेज शब्दकोष named `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year. ''
An उदाहरण of a माँग curve shifting.
The shift इससे d1 to d2 अर्थात् an बढ़ाएँ in माँग with consequences for the other variables
In economics, the demand curve is the graph depicting the संबंध between the दाम of a निश्चित कमोडिटी और the राशि of it कि उपभोक्ता हैं willing और समर्थ to purchase at that given price.
It is a graphic प्रतिनिधित्व of a माँग अनुसूची.
The demand curve for all consumers together फ़ॉलो इससे the माँग वक्र of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत उपभोक्ता : the व्यक्तिगत मांगे at प्रत्येक दाम are added together.
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets, and are often combined with supply curves to estimate the equilibrium दाम ( the दाम at जिससे विक्रेता साथ हैं willing to बेचें the वही राशि as खरीदार साथ हैं willing to ख़रीदे, भी ज्ञात as मार्केट clearing दाम ) और the संतुलन मात्रा ( the राशि of कि शुभ or सेवा कि होगा be उत्पादित और खरीदा बगैर surplus/excess सप्लाई or shortage/excess demand ) of that market.
In a monopolistic market, the माँग वक्र facing the monopolist is बस the मार्केट माँग वक्र.
historia
by nikolaos gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia, meaning `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by छानबीन '' ) is an छतरियाँ पद कि relates to पास्ट कार्यक्रम as खूब as the डिस्कवरी, संग्रहण, organization, and presentation of information about these events.
The term शामिल लौकिक, भूगर्भिक, और सशुल्क इतिहास, लकिन is प्रायः generically implied to mean human history.
Scholars who लिखें परिचय इतिहास हैं पुकारा historians.
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a कथा to जाँचें और analyse a अनुक्रम of पास्ट कार्यक्रम, और objectively determine the पैटर्न of कारण and effect that determine them.
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its usefulness by discussing the study of the discipline as an समाप्त in itself और as a रास्ता of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present.
Stories common to a particular culture, but नहीं समर्थित by बाह्य स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as the किस्से surrounding किंग आर्थर ) हैं प्रायः वर्गीकृत as सांस्कृतिक विरासत or महापुरूष, क्युकी वे do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history.
Events occurring prior to लिखा record are considered prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th century B.C. Greek इतिहासकार is माना भीतर the पश्चिमी परंपरा to be the `` पिता of इतिहास '', और, साथ साथ उसके समकालीन thucydides, helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history.
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused हिरोडोटस और the military-focused thucydides remains a पाइंट of contention or दृष्टिकोण in modern historical writing.
In the Eastern tradition, a state chronicle the Spring and Autumn Annals was known to be compiled इससे as जल्दी as 722 bce हालांकि तभी 2nd सदी BCE texts survived.
प्राचीन प्रभाव have helped spawn रूपांतर interpretations of the प्रकृति of इतिहास जिससे have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today.
The modern study of history is wide-ranging, और शामिल the पढ़ाई of विशिष्ट regions और the पढ़ाई of निश्चित topical or thematical elements of historical investigation.
Often इतिहास is सिखाया as भाग of प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शिक्षा, और the academic study of history is a major discipline in University studies.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born मैल्कम छोटी और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), थी an african-american Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the अधिकारों of अश्वेतों, a man जो indicted श्वेत अमेरिका in the harshest शर्तें लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध black Americans.
detractors अभियुक्त उसे of उपदेश जातिवाद, black supremacy, and violence.
He has been called one of the महानतम और सबसे influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in इतिहास.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by श्वेत supremacists, it थी rumored—when he थी यंग, और at least one of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, उसके माँ थी लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल, और he थी लगाई in a श्रेणी of foster homes.
in 1946, at आयु 20, he गई to थाना for breaking and entering.
In prison, Malcolm X became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after उसके पैरोल in 1952, he जल्दी रोज़ to become एक of इसके नेताओ.
For a dozen years, Malcolm x थी the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह, लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, he returned to the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ he संस्थापित मुस्लिम मस्जिदे, inc. और the संगठन of afro-american Unity.
In February 1965, less than a साल बाद leaving the स्वदेश of islam, he थी assassinated by three members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed मान्यताओं बदला substantially over time.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated विरह of ब्लैक और श्वेत अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट to the सिविल अधिकारों गति 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ साथ it, `` i किया अनेक बाते as a [ ब्लैक ] मुस्लिम that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a प्रेत तब... pointed in a निश्चित दिशा और बताई to कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम, he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to कार्य with civil rights leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson, Jr. ( born March 28, 1946 ) is an अमरीकी बैंकर जो परोसा as the 74th संयुक्त राज्य सचिव of the राजकोष.
He had served as the अध्यक्ष और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी of गोल्डमैन sachs, और is अभी अध्यक्ष of the paulson संस्थान, जिससे he संस्थापित in 2011 to प्रचार चिरस्थायी आर्थिक विकास and a cleaner environment around the world, with an initial focus on the United States and China.
A virtual यंत्र ( vm ) is a तन्त्र implemented abstraction of the underlying हार्डवेयर, जिससे is presented to the application layer of the system.
Virtual machines may be based on विशेषताएँ of a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर or emulate the कंप्यूटर वास्तुकला and functions of a real world computer.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods कि have आठ टाँगे और chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest अनुक्रम of arachnids और रैंक सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति विविधता among all other groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on every महाद्वीप मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक, और have become स्थापित in nearly प्रत्येक habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, वहीँ रै महरूम भ्रम भीतर the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as to कैसा सब ये परिवारों चाहिए be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 अलग classifications कि have महरूम प्रस्तावित since 1900.
anatomically, मकड़ियों differ इससे अन्य arthropods in कि the usual देह खण्ड हैं fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, मकड़ियों do नहीं have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous प्रणालियों of सब arthropods, as सब उनके ganglia हैं fused into एक द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, मकड़ियों have no extensor मांसपेशियां in उनके limbs और बजाय extend उन्हें by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have महरूम परिवर्धित into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा इससे up to छह प्रकार of रेशा glands within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in आकार, आकार और the राशि of sticky thread used.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, and spiders that उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक abundant और विविध than orb-web मकड़ियों.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल परिचय, लकिन ये पशु जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous रॉक्स इससे, और हैं बहुत समान to the सबसे आदिम surviving अनुक्रम, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of आधुनिक मकड़ियों, mygalomorphae और araneomorphae, पहला appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, लकिन सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी, ज़्यादातर preying on कीट और on अन्य मकड़ियों, हालांकि a few विशाल प्रजाति भी take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the शिकार to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have acute vision, and hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in उनके चुनाव of tactics और क्षमता to develop नई ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and वे liquidize उनके खाना by बाढ़ it साथ digestive एंजाइमों और पीस it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of जटिल प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid होने खाया by the महिलाओं.
Males of most species survive a few matings, limited मुख्यतः by उनके छोटी जीवन spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, प्रत्येक of जिससे may contain सैंकड़ों of eggs.
Females of many species care for their यंग, लिये उदाहरण by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing खाना with them.
A minority of species are सोशल, भवन सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere इससे a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the विधवा मकड़ियों, to co-operative शिकार और food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most two सालो, tarantulas और अन्य mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 सालो in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of सिंथेटिक सामग्री, और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have महरूम inserted into स्तनधारियों और पौधे to देखिए if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of व्यवहार, मकड़ियों have become आम प्रतीकों in आर्ट और mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional अक्षर और एक of the दो मादा लीड in the फॉक्स sitcom कि '70s दिखाएँ, appearing in सब आठ सीज़न.
portrayed by लौरा prepon, डोना is the love interest to Eric Forman.
US काउंटी household मध्य आय 2009.
Median US household आय, 2001-2011
Household income is a माप commonly प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त States government and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the आय of प्रत्येक निवासी over the आयु of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability भुगतान, चाइल्ड support भुगतान प्राप्त, नियमित rental रसीदें, as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार, निवेश, or अन्य kinds of income received routinely.
जबकि inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household आय था महरूम increasing लगभग every year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and even decreased recently.
u.S. मध्य household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government लाभ, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011, सहित 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household लिये उनके आय to be माना भाग of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a समान आर्थिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट, the उपयोग of household आय remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is नहीं commonly लिया into खाता in ऐसे उपायों may विकृत कोई विश्लेषण of fluctuations भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी, और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
A registered agent, also known as a resident agent or statutory agent, in United States business law, is a business or व्यक्तिगत designated to प्राप्त सेवा of प्रक्रम ( sop ) जब a कारोबार एंटिटी is a पार्टी in a विधिक कार्रवाई ऐसे as a मुकदमा or समन.
The registered agent 's address may also be where the राज्य होगा भेजें the कागजी लिये the वार्षिक नवीकरण of the कारोबार एंटिटी 's charter.
The registered agent for a business entity may be an individual member of the company, or ( अधिक प्रायः ) a तीसरा पार्टी, ऐसे as the संगठन 's वकील or a सेवा कम्पनी.
Failure to properly maintain a पंजीकृत एजेंट can affect a कम्पनी negatively.
दफ्तर लिये आपात Management.
Office of युद्ध सूचना युद्ध poster 1941 - 1945
`` जीवन, स्वतंत्रता, और the pursuit of सुख '' is a well-known phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable अधिकारों '' साथ जिससे सब इंसान beings are endowed by their creator for their protection of which they institute governments.
Fencing, is typically divided into ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी, शास्त्रीय तलवारबाजी and historical fencing,.
The sport of fencing ( commonly called olympic fencing or competitive तलवारबाजी ) is विभाजित into तीन हथियार श्रेणी : foil, sabre and épée.
Classical fencing uses the वही तीन हथियार, लकिन approaches तलवारबाजी as a martial art.
प्रतिस्पर्धी तलवारबाजी is एक of पाँच खेल जिससे रै महरूम प्रदर्शित at प्रत्येक एक of the आधुनिक Olympic Games, the other four being Athletics, Cycling, Swimming, and Gymnastics.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ), also called simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a विशाल मांसपेशी समूह कि शामिल the चार प्रचलित मांसपेशियां on the front of the thigh.
It is the great extensor muscle of the घुटना, forming a विशाल मांसल द्रव्यमान जिससे कवर the सामने और sides of the femur.
The proper Latin plural रूप of the क्रियाशील quadriceps होता be quadricipites.
In आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग, quadriceps is used in both singular and plural.
The singular रूप quadricep, उत्पादित by hypercorrection, is frequently used.
rms टाइटैनिक थी a अंग्रेजों यात्री लाइनर कि sank in the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर on 15 अप्रैल 1912 बाद colliding साथ an हिमशैल दौरान her maiden voyage from Southampton, UK to New York City, US.
The sinking of Titanic caused the मौतों of 1,502 लोगों in एक of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern history.
The RMS Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the समय of उसके maiden voyage.
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the श्वेत स्टार लकीर, और वो थी निर्मित by the harland और wolff डॉकयार्ड in belfast साथ थामस Andrews, who perished with the ship, as her naval architect.
On her maiden voyage, वो carried 2,224 यात्री and crew.
Under the command of Edward Smith, her passengers शामिल कुछ of the wealthiest लोगों in the संसार, as खूब as सैंकड़ों of emigrants इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड, scandinavia और elsewhere throughout यूरोपीय seeking a new life in North America.
The ship was designed to be the last word in comfort and लक्ज़री, साथ an on-board gymnasium, तैराकी पूल, पुस्तकालयों, high-class रेस्तरां and opulent cabins.
She also had a शक्तिशाली बेतार टेलीग्राफ provided लिये the convenience of यात्री as well as for operational use.
Though वो था उन्नत सुरक्षा सुविधाएँ ऐसे as watertight compartments और remotely activated watertight doors, she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard.
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly अधिक than हाफ of the क्रमांक यात्राएं on the maiden voyage, और one-third उसके कुल यात्री and crew capacity.
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912, Titanic called at Cherbourg in फ़्रांस और queenstown ( अभी cobh ) in आयरलैंड पहले heading westwards towards New York.
On 14 April 1912, four days into the crossing और परिचय 375 मील ( 600 km ) दक्षिण of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड, वो hit an हिमशैल at 11:40 pm ship 's time.
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull प्लेटों to बकल inwards साथ उसके स्टारबोर्ड पक्ष और खोली पाँच of उसके सोलह watertight compartments to the समुद्र ; the जलयान धीरे filled with water.
Meanwhile, passengers और कुछ क्रू सदस्यों यहूद evacuated in lifeboats, अनेक of जिससे यहूद शुभारम्भ तभी partly loaded.
A disproportionate क्रमांक of मेन यहूद बाएँ सवार क्युकी of a `` महिलाओं और children पहला `` protocol followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats.
By 2:20 AM, वो broke अलावा और foundered, साथ खूब over एक हजार people still aboard.
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered, the Cunard लाइनर rms carpathia arrived on the झाँकी of the डूब, जहाँ वो brought सवार an अनुमानित 705 survivors.
The disaster was greeted with worldwide शॉक और आक्रोश at the विशाल घाटा of जीवन और the नियामक और operational failures that had led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain and the संयुक्त राज्य led to प्रमुख सुधार in मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा.
One of their most important legacies was the स्थापना in 1914 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सम्मेलन लिये the सुरक्षा of जीवन at समुद्र ( solas ), which still governs maritime safety today.
Additionally, several new wireless regulations यहूद passed around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to सीख इससे the अनेक missteps in बेतार संचार -- -which could have saved many more passengers.
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions और यहूद बाएँ अक्षम ; अनेक परिवारों, विशेषकर those of क्रू सदस्यों इससे southampton, खोया उनके प्राथमिक bread-winners.
They यहूद helped by an outpouring of पब्लिक सहानुभूति और charitable donations.
Some of the पुरूष survivors यहूद अभियुक्त of कायरता लिये leaving the जलयान जबकि लोगों यहूद स्टिल on फलक ; the श्वेत Star Line 's chairman, J. Bruce Ismay, faced social ostracism for the rest of his life.
The wreck of the Titanic remains on the समुद्रतल, विभाजित in दो और धीरे disintegrating at a depth of.
Since its discovery in 1985, हज़ारों of artefacts have महरूम बरामद और put on display at museums around the world.
टाइटैनिक रै become एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध जहाजों in इतिहास, उसके मेमोरी रखा जिंदा by numerous books, folk songs, films, exhibits, and memorials.
The human leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of the human body, including the foot, thigh और भी the हिप or gluteal प्रदेश ; however, the precise परिभाषा in इंसान anatomy refers तभी to the खण्ड of the निम्नतर limb extending from the knee to the ankle.
टाँगे हैं प्रयुक्त लिये खड़ा, चलना, कूद, कार्यशील, kicking, and similar activities, and constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass.
This article is about the demographic features of the जनसांख्यिकी of तुर्कों, सहित जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व, नस्ल, शिक्षा स्तर, स्वास्थ्य of the populace, आर्थिक औकात, धार्मिक संबद्धों और other aspects of the population.
As of 2010, the जनसांख्यिकी of तुर्कों is अनुमानित to be 73.7 लाख साथ a विकास rate of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ).
The जनसांख्यिकी is अपेक्षाकृत यंग साथ 26.6 % गिरना in the 0-14 age bracket.
according to the oecd/world बैंको जनसांख्यिकी आंकडे in तुर्कों the population growth from 1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29 %.
1998 bmw 750il
बुइक roadmaster
A full-size car is a विपणन पद प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका लिये an ऑटोमोबाइल larger than a mid-size car.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, the epa उपयोग the पद `` विशाल car '' to denote full-size cars.
Joel Grey ( born April 11, 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor, सिंगर, और नर्तकी, ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका as the निपुण of ceremonies in दोनो the स्टेज और फिल्मी adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret.
He has won the अकादमी पुरस्कार, टोनी पुरस्कार और सुनहरी ग्लोब Award.
He also originated the भूमिका of जार्ज M. cohan in the musical George M !
in 1973, the जादूगर in the musical Wicked.
Grey also स्ट्रक्चर in the ब्रॉडवे revivals of anything goes as moonface Martin, and Chicago as Amos Hart.
James Madison, Jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( O.S. March 5 ) – June 28, 1836 ) थी an अमरीकी statesman और राजनैतिक theorist, the चौथी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “father of the constitution” लिये होने इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting of the United States Constitution and as the key champion and author of the United States Bill of Rights.
He served as a राजनेता much of उसके वयस्क life.
After the constitution had been drafted, मैडिसन became एक of the leaders in the movement to ratify it.
His collaboration with सिकंदर हैमिल्टन और जॉन jay उत्पादित the federalist Papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated only in New York at the time, they would later be माना among the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण polemics in support of the संविधान.
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying सम्मेलन, और थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the कामयाब अनुसमर्थन प्रयत्न in वर्जिनिया.
Like most of his contemporaries, मैडिसन बदला उसके राजनैतिक views during his life.
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution, he favored a strong national government, though later he grew to एहसान stronger राज्य सरकारें, पहले settling between the दो extremes late in his life.
In 1789, मैडिसन became a नेता in the नई हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, drafting many basic laws.
He is notable for drafting the पहला टेन amendments to the संविधान, और यूँ is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights ``.
Madison worked closely साथ अध्यक्ष जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to व्यवस्थित the नई federal government.
Breaking with Hamilton and what became the Federalist Party in 1791, Madison and Thomas जेफरसन व्यवस्थित कया वे पुकारा the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ( बाद पुकारा by इतिहासकारों the democratic-republican Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ), मैडिसन पर्यवेक्षित the louisiana खरीदें, जिससे doubled the nation’s size.
After his election to the प्रेसिडेंसी, he presided over नवीनीकृत समृद्धि लिये several years.
As अध्यक्ष ( 1809–17 ), बाद the विफलता of राजनयिक विरोध और a व्यापार embargo against Great Britain, he led the nation into the War of 1812.
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition, he wanted to end the influence of the अंग्रेजों among उनके भारतीय allies, जिनकी प्रतिरोध अवरोधित संयुक्त राज्य उपनिवेश in the Midwest around the Great Lakes.
Madison found the war to be an administrative nightmare, as the United States had neither a strong army nor financial system ; as a result, he afterward समर्थित a stronger नेशनल सरकारी और a दमदार सैन्य, as खूब as the नेशनल बैंको, which he had long opposed.
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave society, he was a slaveholder जो inherited उसके वृक्षारोपण ज्ञात as montpelier, और स्वामित्व सैंकड़ों of स्लेव दौरान उसके lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops.
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that अनुमत three-fifths of the enumerated जनसांख्यिकी of स्लेव to be गिने लिये प्रतिनिधित्व.
`` रोमन 's बदला '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday.
it थी लिखा by minaj और rapper एमिनेम, जो is also featured in the song, and was produced by Swizz Beatz.
It was released exclusively on अक्तूबर 30, 2010 through the us itunes स्टोर, as a promotional release preceding the album 's release.
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj, where many people felt the song थी निर्देशित at लील ' किम और regarded around उसके जज्बात towards Minaj 's rise to fame.
the सोंग सन्दर्भ minaj 's alter-ego, रोमन zolanski, और Eminem 's alter-ego, Slim Shady.
The सोंग garnered बहुत धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, most of which praised the song as a stand-out track on the album.
An official remix featuring minaj 's mentor, लील वेन, थी released to the US iTunes Store on January 19, 2011.
The instrumental was प्रयुक्त in the सोंग 'firing स्क्वाड ' by नाल G.A.N.G.
हाइड्रोलिक द्रव होने poured.
Hydraulic fluids, also called हाइड्रोलिक liquids, हैं the मीडियम by जिससे शक्ति is transferred in hydraulic machinery.
आम हाइड्रोलिक fluids हैं आधारित on mineral oil or water.
Examples of equipment that might use हाइड्रोलिक fluids शामिल excavators और backhoes, हाइड्रोलिक brakes, शक्ति परिचालन प्रणालियों, ट्रांसमिशन, कचरा ट्रक, वायुयान उड़ान कंट्रोल systems, lifts, and industrial machinery.
Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above will कार्य सबसे efficiently if the हाइड्रोलिक द्रव प्रयुक्त रै no compressibility
Mahindra ट्रैक्टर
Mahindra tractors, the फार्म उपकरण प्रभाग of महिंद्रा & महिंद्रा, builds और sources tractors that are sold worldwide across six continents.
Mahindra is also among the शीर्ष तीन ट्रैक्टर निर्माताओं in the world.
महिंद्रा रै a विशाल उपभोक्ता आधार in इण्डिया, चीन and America and a growing base in Australia.
The company builds more tractors in India than any other निर्माता, और रै the क्षमता to निर्माण 150,000 tractors a year.
In 1963, m & m formed a संयुक्त venture साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate for the Indian market.
Armed with engineering, tooling और निर्माण know-how gained इससे इस संबंध, m & m विकसित इसके पहला ट्रैक्टर, the B-275.
Mahindra Tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 इकाई annually is एक of the largest ट्रैक्टर कंपनियाँ in the संसार, and is number one in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world.
To expand into the growing ट्रैक्टर मार्केट in चीन, महिंद्रा acquired बहुमत हिस्सेदारी in Jiangling.
To raise awareness परिचय महिंद्रा in the us, महिंद्रा यूएसए घोषित इसके नई प्रायोजन in the nascar देशभर श्रेणी साथ r3 मोटरस्पोर्ट, which is participating with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet.
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson, Jr. Mahindra USA, Inc. घोषित a 17-race प्राथमिक और 18-race संबद्ध प्रायोजन लिये the 2009 nascar Nationwide Series.
With this sponsorship, Mahindra थी the पहला भारतीय कम्पनी to प्रायोजक a car in NASCAR.
In 2008, Mahindra was a sponsor of the मैकडोनाल्ड मोटरस्पोर्ट टोली जिससे भागा the # 81 car in the nascar देशभर श्रेणी.
The POWER6 is a माइक्रोप्रोसेसर विकसित by ibm कि implemented the Power ISA v.2.03.
When it became available in systems in 2007, it succeeded the शक्ति5+ as ibm 's फ्लैगशिप शक्ति माइक्रोप्रोसेसर.
It is भाग of the eclipz प्रोजेक्ट, कहा to have a लक्ष्य of converging ibm 's सर्वर हार्डवेयर जहाँ practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries, pSeries, and zSeries ).
The American middle class is a सोशल क्लास in the संयुक्त राज्य.
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use, समकालीन सोशल वैज्ञानिकों have put आगे अनेक, अधिक or कम congruent, theories on the अमरीकी मध्य class.
Depending on class model used, the मध्य क्लास may constitute anywhere इससे 25 % to 66 % of households.
One of the first major studies of the middle class in America थी श्वेत कॉलर : the अमरीकी मध्य वर्ग, प्रकाशित in 1951 by समाजशास्त्री C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists ऐसे as डेनिस गिल्बर्ट of हैमिल्टन कॉलेज commonly divide the middle class into two sub-groups.
constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the अपर or पेशेवर middle class consisting of highly educated, salaried professionals and managers.
Constituting roughly one तीसरा of households is the निम्नतर मध्य क्लास consisting ज़्यादातर of semi-professionals, skilled craftsmen and lower-level management.
middle-class व्यक्तियों commonly have a आरामदायक मानक of जीना, significant आर्थिक सुरक्षा, considerable कार्य स्वायत्तता और rely on their expertise to sustain themselves.
Members of the मध्य क्लास belong to विविध समूह जिससे ओवरलैप with each other.
Overall, middle-class persons, विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals, हैं characterized by conceptualizing, creating and consulting.
यूँ, कॉलेज शिक्षा is एक of the main indicators of middle-class status.
Largely attributed to the प्रकृति of middle-class occupations, मध्य क्लास मान tend to emphasize स्वतंत्रता, adherence to मूलभूत standards, valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity.
Politically more क्रियाशील than अन्य जनसांख्यिकी, कॉलेज शिक्षित मध्य क्लास पेशेवर हैं विभाजित between the two major parties.
Income varies considerably इससे निकट the नेशनल मध्य to खूब in excess of $ 100,000.
Household आय आंकड़े, however, do नहीं सदा प्रतिबिंबित क्लास औकात और मानक of जीना, as वे हैं largely बहकावे by the क्रमांक of income earners and fail to recognize household size.
It is therefore possible for a large, dual-earner, निम्नतर मध्य क्लास household to out-earn a छोटी, one-earner, अपर मध्य class household.
The middle classes are very influential, as वे encompass the बहुमत of मतदाता, लेखक, teachers, journalists, and editors.
Most societal trends in the US originate भीतर the मध्य वर्ग.
The following is a list of शनिवार रात्रि सजीव डाल सदस्यों, पास्ट और उपस्थित.
The cast members of Saturday Night Live were originally referred to as the `` नहीं तैयार लिये प्रधान समय खिलाड़ी ''.
The असली डाल ( l to r ) : laraine न्युमैन, जॉन belushi, जेन कर्टिन, gilda Radner, Dan Aykroyd, Garrett Morris, and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San Francisco भूकंप, remembered as एक of the worst natural disasters in United States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) जोखिम resulting in an इवेंट of substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक क्षति or विनाश, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A विपत्ति can be ostensively पारिभाषित as कोई tragic इवेंट stemming इससे कार्यक्रम ऐसे as भूकंप, floods, catastrophic accidents, fires, or explosions.
It is a phenomenon कि can कारण क्षति to जीवन और प्रॉपर्टी और नष्ट the आर्थिक, social and cultural life of people.
in समकालीन academia, आपदाओं हैं देखी as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk.
These risks are the उत्पाद of a संयोजन of दोनो hazard/s और vulnerability.
Hazards कि स्ट्राइक in क्षेत्रों साथ कम vulnerability होगा never become आपदाओं, as is the मामला in uninhabited regions.
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 प्रतिशत of सब मौतों caused by आपदाओं occur in विकासशील देशों, और नुकसान due to प्राकृतिक आपदाओं हैं 20 टाइम्स वृहद ( as a प्रतिशत of जीडीपी ) in विकासशील देशों than in industrialized countries.
In computing, booting ( also ज्ञात as booting up ) is the आरंभिक नियत of परिचालन कि a कंप्यूटर प्रणाली performs जब electrical power to the CPU is switched on.
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first समय or is re-energized बाद होने turned बंद, और ends जब the कंप्यूटर is तैयार to perform इसके सामान्य परिचालन.
On modern सामान्य purpose कंप्यूटर, इस can लो tens of सेकेंड और typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating और initializing परिधीय devices, and then finding, loading and starting an operating system.
Many कंप्यूटर प्रणालियों भी allow ये परिचालन to be initiated by a तन्त्र command without cycling power, in what is known as a soft reboot, though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot.
A boot loader is a कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम कि loads the प्रमुख ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण for the computer after completion of the self-tests.
the कंप्यूटर पद बूट is छोटी लिये बूटस्ट्रैप or बूटस्ट्रैप लोड और गर्भाशयी from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
The usage calls attention to the requirement that, if सबसे तन्त्र is loaded onto a कंप्यूटर by अन्य तन्त्र already कार्यशील on the कंप्यूटर, कुछ mechanism must exist to load initial software onto the computer.
जल्दी कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त a किस्में of ad-hoc विधि to मिलेंगी a छोटी कार्यक्रम into memory to solve this problem.
The invention of integrated circuit read-only memory ( ROM ) of विभिन्न प्रकार हल इस विरोधाभास by allowing कंप्यूटर to be shipped साथ a प्रारंभ up program that could not be erased.
Growth in the क्षमता of rom रै अनुमत कभी अधिक विस्तृत प्रारंभ up प्रक्रियाओं to be implemented.
On general purpose computers, the boot process begins with the निष्पादन of an आरंभिक कार्यक्रम भंडारित in बूट roms or पढ़ा in another fashion.
In some older कंप्यूटर, the आरंभिक कार्यक्रम might have महरूम the अनुप्रयोग to चलाएं, if no ऑपरेटिंग system was used, or the operating system.
In other computers, the आरंभिक कार्यक्रम is a बूट लोडर कि may तब लोड into random-access मेमोरी ( राम ), इससे nonvolatile द्वितीयक storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or, in some older computers, from a medium such as punched cards, punched tape, or magnetic tape in older computers, the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it.
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities, it may, instead, load a larger और अधिक सक्षम द्वितीयक बूट लोडर, जिससे होता तब लोड the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण.
Some embedded systems do नहीं आवश्यकता a noticeable बूट अनुक्रम to शुरू कामकाज और जब turned on may बस चलाएं operational programs that are stored in ROM.
Firebird is an open सोर्स एसक्यूएल रिलेशनल डेटाबेस प्रबन्धन प्रणाली कि रनों on लिनक्स, Windows, and a variety of Unix.
The database forked from Borland 's open सोर्स संस्करण of interbase in 2000, लकिन चूंकि firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten.
आउटसोर्सिंग is the contracting आउट of an आतंरिक कारोबार process to a third-party organization.
The practice of contracting a business प्रक्रम आउट to a तीसरा पार्टी बल्कि than स्टॉफ it internally is आम in the आधुनिक अर्थव्यवस्था.
The term `` outsourcing '' became लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य निकट the फेरे of the 21st century.
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी और एसेट इससे एक कड़ to another, लकिन नहीं सदा.
The definition of आउटसोर्सिंग शामिल दोनो विदेशी और घरेलू contracting, और sometimes शामिल offshoring, which means relocating a business function to another country.
Financial savings from lower अंतरराष्ट्रीय मजदूर दरों is a बिग प्रेरणा लिये outsourcing/offshoring.
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing, जिससे entails bringing प्रक्रियाओं संभाला by third-party firms in-house, और is sometimes संपन्नता via vertical integration.
However, a business can provide a अनुबंध सेवा to another कारोबार बगैर necessarily insourcing कि कारोबार process.
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( धीरे replicating retrovirus ) कि कल्याणकारी acquired immunodeficiency सिंड्रोम ( एड्स ), a कंडीशन in इंसानो in जिससे progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of रक्त, वीर्य, vaginal द्रव, pre-ejaculate, or स्तन मिल्क.
Within these bodily fluids, hiv is उपस्थित as दोनो फ़्री वायरस अणु and virus within infected immune cells.
HIV infects vital कोशिकाएं in the इंसान प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली ऐसे as हेल्पर t कोशिकाएं ( specifically cd4 + T cells ), macrophages, and dendritic cells.
hiv संक्रमण लीड to कम स्तर of cd4+ t कोशिकाएं through a क्रमांक of mechanisms सहित : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct viral killing of infected cells, and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells.
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a नाजुक स्तर, cell-mediated प्रतिरक्षण is खोया, और the देह becomes progressively अधिक susceptible to opportunistic infections.
The firepole in a आग स्टेशन in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in आग स्टेशन, allowing अग्निशमन responding to an सचेतक to जल्दी descend to the मैदान मंजिल तेज़ than by using a standard staircase.
the यंत्र थी invented in the 1870s by दाउद kenyon, in शिकागो, इलिनोइस, हालांकि it is प्रायः incorrectly credited to the Boston Fire Department.
मरियम poppins is the शीर्षक अक्षर of a series of children 's books written by P. L. Travers.
throughout the मरियम poppins श्रेणी, जिससे lasted इससे 1934 to 1988, मरियम shepard was the illustrator and acted as a second author.
The books centre on a जादुई अंग्रेज़ी नैनी, मरियम poppins.
She is blown by the East हवा to क्रमांक सत्रह चेरी पेड़ लेन, लंदन, और into the बैंको ' household to परवाह for their children.
Encounters with chimney sweeps, shopkeepers and विभिन्न adventures follow जबतक मरियम poppins abruptly पत्ते, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
The adventures लो प्लेस over a कुल of आठ किताबे.
However, only the first तीन किताबे विशेषता मरियम poppins arriving और leaving.
The later five books recount previously unrecorded adventures इससे उसके असली तीन विज़िट.
As P. L. Travers explains in उसके परिचय to मरियम poppins in the पार्क, `` She can not forever arrive and depart. ''
The books यहूद adapted in 1964 into a musical डिज़्नी फिल्मी अभिनीत Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke.
In 2004, Disney Theatrical उत्पादित a स्टेज musical अनुकूलन in the वेस्ट End theatre.
The stage musical was transferred to ब्रॉडवे in 2006 जहाँ it भागा जबतक इसके closing on कूच 3, 2013.
It has been अत्यधिक कामयाब, as थी the 1964 film.
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of age teen romantic drama film developed alongside निकोलस स्पार्क्स ' अनोखा by the वही नाम.
The film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson in उसके विशेषता फिल्मी directorial डेब्यू और co-written by स्पार्क्स और Jeff Van Wie.
The Last Song stars miley सायरस, लियाम hemsworth, और ग्रेग kinnear और फ़ॉलो a troubled किशोरावस्था as वो reconnects साथ उसके estranged पिता और जलप्रपात in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town.
The फिल्मी is वितरित by touchstone Pictures.
स्पार्क्स थी approached to लिखें दोनो the फिल्मी 's पटकथा and the novel.
Sparks completed the screenplay in January 2009, prior to the पूर्णता of the अनोखा, बनाना the पिछला सोंग उसके पहला स्क्रिप्ट to be optioned for film.
The setting, originally in North कैरोलिना जैसे the अनोखा, स्थानांतरित to जॉर्जिया बाद the राज्य था campaigned for months to host production.
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island, जॉर्जिया और आसपास savannah, the पिछला सोंग became the पहला फिल्म to be दोनो शॉट और नियत in Tybee Island.
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18, 2009 साथ much of it occurring on the द्वीप 's बीच और pier.
The Last Song was originally scheduled लिये चौड़ी रिलीज on जनवरी 8, 2010, लकिन थी स्थगित to कूच 31, 2010.
लिखा simlish
Simlish is a fictional भाषा प्रदर्शित in ea खेल ' sim श्रेणी of खेल.
It debuted in SimCopter, and has been विशेषकर prominent in the सीम, the सीम 2 और the Sims 3.
The Sims development team created the अद्वितीय simlish भाषा by experimenting साथ fractured यूक्रेनी, फ्रेंच, Latin, Finnish, English, Fijian, Cebuano, and Tagalog.
Simlish can also be heard in simcity 4, simcity समाजों और simcity 2013, लकिन दूर कम अक्सर.
Civilized Creatures in spore can भी be सिखाया to बोलो Simlish.
it is भी प्रदर्शित to an extent in Firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf.
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue in the game, but विचार कि using a रियल भाषा होता मेक it ध्वनि too दोहराए और होता भी be too costly to hire अनुवादक लिये world languages.
Initially, inspired by the Native American code talkers of World War II, Sims creator होगा राइट और भाषा विशेषज्ञ मार्क gimbel सुझाया experimenting साथ the navajo भाषा to बनाएँ simlish.
However, they ultimately decided कि simlish worked बेहतरीन as a `` भाषा '' बना up of gibberish शब्द कि could n't be अनूदित, so कि इसके अर्थ होता be left open to the imagination of the player.
Wright later commented that using `` बकवास भाषा '' turned आउट to be the सही विकास चुनाव, as लोगों यहूद सक्षम of imagining it अधिक realistically than a computer could simulate a real one.
The actual sound of Simlish was created improvisationally by आवाज़ अभिनेताओं स्टीफन kearin और gerri Lawlor.
An example of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on ब्लेड जड़ें of a v2500 iae वायुयान इंजन.
Step 1 : the ut जांच is लगाई on the रूट of the ब्लेड to be inspected साथ the help of a special borescope tool ( video probe ).
Step 2 : यंत्र जमावट are input.
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over the ब्लेड root.
In this case, an indication ( शिखर in the आंकड़ा ) through the रेड लकीर ( or फाटक ) indicates a शुभ ब्लेड ; an indication to the बाएँ of that range indicates a crack.
principle of अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण.
LEFT : A probe भेजना a ध्वनि वेव into a परीक्षण सामग्री.
There are two indications, एक इससे the आरंभिक पल्स of the जांच, और the दूसरी due to the back wall echo.
RIGHT : A defect creates a तीसरा indication और simultaneously reduces the आयाम of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is संकल्पित by the अनुपात d/e
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ), very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with center frequencies ranging from 0.1-15 mhz और occasionally up to 50 mhz हैं शुभारम्भ into सामग्री to detect आतंरिक खामियां or to characterize सामग्री.
A common example is अल्ट्रासोनिक मोटाई मापन, जिससे परीक्षण the मोटाई of the परीक्षण ऑब्जेक्ट, लिये उदाहरण, to monitor pipework corrosion.
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and अन्य धातुओं और alloys, हालांकि it can भी be प्रयुक्त on कंक्रीट, लकडी और composites, albeit with less resolution.
It is a form of non-destructive परीक्षण प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग सहित aerospace, ऑटोमोटिव और अन्य परिवहन sectors.
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), also called ductus deferens ( लैटिन : `` carrying-away पोत '' ; बहुवचन : ductus deferentes ), is भाग of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes साथ characteristic cyanosis.
In medicine, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; इससे यूनानी भाषा ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- रूट denoting a प्रतिबंध or thinning or to मेक or grow thin/lean, haema रक्त ) is a प्रतिबंध in रक्त सप्लाई to ऊतकों, causing a shortage of ऑक्सीजन और glucose needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ).
ischemia is generally caused by समस्याएं साथ रक्त बरतन, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue.
It also means local anemia in a given part of a देह sometimes resulting इससे जमघट ( ऐसे as vasoconstriction, घनास्रता or वाहिकारोध ).
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome, also ज्ञात as trisomy 21, is a जेनेटिक विकार caused by the उपस्थिति of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21.
Down syndrome is the सबसे आम chromosome तबदीली in इंसानो.
It is typically संबद्ध साथ a विलंब in संज्ञानात्मक क्षमता ( दिमागी retardation, or mr ) और शारीरिक growth, and a particular set of facial characteristics.
The average IQ of young वयस्कों साथ bas सिंड्रोम is around 50, whereas यंग वयस्कों बगैर the condition typically have an IQ of 100.
( MR has historically महरूम पारिभाषित as an IQ below 70. )
A large proportion of individuals with bas सिंड्रोम have a कठोर उपाधि of बौद्धिक disability.
Down सिंड्रोम is नामित बाद जॉन langdon bas, the अंग्रेजों physician who described the syndrome in 1866.
The condition was clinically described earlier by Jean etienne dominique esquirol in 1838 और edouard seguin in 1844.
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by dr. jérôme lejeune in 1959.
Down syndrome can be पहचाना in a baby at जनम or पहले जनम by prenatal screening.
pregnancies साथ इस निदान हैं often terminated.
The CDC estimates that about one of every 691 babies born in the संयुक्त राज्य प्रत्येक साल is born साथ bas सिंड्रोम.
अनेक children साथ bas सिंड्रोम हैं शिक्षित in नियमित स्कूल वर्ग जबकि अन्य आवश्यकता specialised educational facilities.
Some children graduate from high school, and, in the US, वहीँ हैं increasing अवसर लिये participating in post-secondary education.
Education और उचित परवाह रै महरूम दिखाया to improve विशेषता of life significantly.
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to work at सशुल्क नियुक्ति in the जातियाँ, जबकि अन्य आवश्यकता a अधिक sheltered कार्य पर्यावरण.
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes, or night sweats if they happen at night ) are a symptom जिससे may have अनेक अन्य कल्याणकारी, लकिन जिससे is प्रायः caused by the बदलना हार्मोन स्तर कि हैं characteristic of menopause.
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( p.l. 78-346, 58 स्टेट. 284m ), ज्ञात informally as the g.i. विधेयक, थी a विधि कि provided a दायरा of लाभ for returning World War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
लाभ शामिल low-cost mortgages, low-interest लोन to प्रारंभ a कारोबार or फार्म, नकदी भुगतान of ट्यूशन और जीना खर्च to attend college, high school or vocational education, as well as one year of unemployment compensation.
It was available to every दिग्गज जो था महरूम on क्रियाशील ड्यूटी दौरान the युद्ध सालो लिये at तनिक नब्बे दिनों और था not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required.
By the समाप्त of the कार्यक्रम in 1956, roughly 2.2 लाख दिग्गजों था प्रयुक्त the g.i. विधेयक शिक्षा लाभ in अनुक्रम to attend colleges or universities, and an additional 6.6 million used these benefits for some kind of training program.
Since the असली 1944 विधि, the पद रै आइये to शामिल अन्य दिग्गज लाभ कार्यक्रम निर्मित to assist दिग्गजों of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service.
Historians and economists consider the G.I. Bill a major राजनैतिक success—especially in कंट्रास्ट to the उपचार of संसार युद्ध i veterans—and a प्रमुख योगदान to अमेरिका 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth.
The वाटरगेट कांड थी a राजनैतिक कांड कि occurred in the संयुक्त राज्य in the 1970s as a परिणाम of the जून 17, 1972 break-in at the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी मुख्यालय at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C., and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement.
The scandal आखिरकार led to the इस्तीफा of रिचर्ड निक्सन, the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, on अगस्त 9, 1974 — the तभी resignation of a U.S. President.
The scandal also resulted in the indictment, trial, conviction, and incarceration of forty-three व्यक्तियों, दर्जनों of जिसको यहूद निक्सन 's top administration officials.
The affair began with the arrest of पाँच मेन लिये तोड़कर और प्रवेश into the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी ( dnc ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17, 1972.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the burglars to a slush निधि प्रयुक्त by the कमेटी लिये the re-election of the अध्यक्ष, the आधिकारिक संगठन of निक्सन 's अभियान.
In July 1973, as evidence mounted against the president 's staff, including testimony provided by former staff members in an छानबीन conducted by the सीनेट वाटरगेट कमेटी, it थी नाज़िल कि अध्यक्ष निक्सन था a tape-recording प्रणाली in उसके offices and he had recorded many conversations.
Recordings from ये टेपों implicated the अध्यक्ष, revealing he था attempted to कवर up the questionable ( और illegal ) goings-on कि had taken place during his administration, both before and after the break-in.
After a protracted series of bitter court लड़ाइयों, the u.S. परम् अदालत unanimously शासित कि the अध्यक्ष था to हाथ over the टेपों to सरकारी जांचकर्ताओं ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of प्रतिनिधि और a दमदार सम्भावना of a conviction in the सीनेट, निक्सन resigned the प्रेसिडेंसी on अगस्त 9, 1974.
His successor, जेराल्ड घाट, तब जारी a pardon to him.
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly lansing और स्पेंसर ) is a fictional अक्षर on the ABC Daytime soap opera General Hospital.
Elizabeth is the granddaughter of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John beradino ), एक of the originating कोर वर्ण of the श्रेणी.
Rebecca Herbst originated the अक्षर on अगस्त 1, 1997 और रै महरूम the तभी contract actress to play the role.
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings, भाग्यशाली स्पेंसर और एलिज़ाबेथ webber और जेसन Morgan and Elizabeth Webber.
The United States presidency of रोनाल्ड reagan, भी ज्ञात as the reagan प्रशासन, थी a रिपब्लिकन administration headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20, 1981, to January 20, 1989.
Domestically, the administration favored reducing government programs and introduced the largest across-the-board कर कटौती in अमरीकी history.
The economic policies enacted in 1981, ज्ञात as `` reaganomics ``, यहूद an उदाहरण of supply-side अर्थशास्त्र.
Reagan aimed to encourage उद्यमिता और सीमा the विकास of सोशल बिता, as खूब as the reduction of regulation and inflation.
Economic growth saw a strong रिकवरी in the 1980s, helping reagan to जीत a भूस्खलन re-election.
The national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding foreign policy, the administration was steadfastly anti-communist, कॉलिंग the सोवियत संघ an `` दुष्ट साम्राज्य `` और समाप्ति 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the सैन्य प्रारंभ by उसके पूर्ववर्ती, सहित an आक्रमण of हरा, the पहला प्रमुख विदेशी action by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam War.
The `` Reagan doctrine `` controversially granted सहायता to अर्धसैनिक शक्तियां seeking to फेकने communist governments, particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan.
Reagan also promoted new technologies such as missile defense प्रणालियों in अनुक्रम to confront the soviets और उनके allies.
In diplomacy, Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime Minister Margaret थैचर, और he मिले साथ सोवियत सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव चार टाइम्स, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' नाभिकीय arsenals.
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` reagan क्रान्ति '', or the आयु of reagan in मान्यता of the राजनैतिक realignment दोनो भीतर और परे the u.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets.
The Reagan प्रशासन worked toward the पतन of सोवियत साम्यवादी, और it किया पतन बस as he बाएँ office.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar संसार साथ the u.S. as the world 's sole superpower.
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term, Reagan himself left दफ्तर साथ a 63 प्रतिशत स्वीकृति दरजा, एक of the उच्चतर स्वीकृति दरजा of दूँ राष्ट्रपतियों.
After years of unstinting praise from the right, and unrelenting आलोचना इससे the बाएँ, इतिहासकार दाउद हेनरी पाता कि by 2009 a सर्वसम्मति था उभरा among विद्वानों कि reagan revived कोसा और turned the स्वदेश to the सही by demonstrating a `` pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system.
Furthermore, says Henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the प्रेसिडेंसी और अमरीकी self-confidence, और contributed critically to समाप्ति the ठंडा युद्ध.
Crude मौत रेट by देश ( 2006 ).
मृत्यु रेट is a माप of the क्रमांक of मौतों ( in सामान्य, or due to a specific cause ) in a population.
Scaled to the आकार of कि जनसांख्यिकी, प्रति unit of time.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in इकाई of मौतों प्रति 1000 individuals प्रति साल ; यूँ, a मृत्यु रेट of 9.5 ( आउट of 1000 ) in a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population, or 0.95 % out of the total.
It is distinct from morbidity rate, which refers to the number of individuals in poor health during a दिए समय काल ( the व्यापकता रेट ) or the क्रमांक of newly appearing मामले of the बीमारी प्रति ईकाई of समय ( incidence rate ).
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately प्रयुक्त to refer to the क्रमांक of मौतों among a नियत of diagnosed हॉस्पिटल मामले लिये a बीमारी or चोट, बल्कि than लिये the सामान्य population of a country or ethnic group.
This disease mortality statistic is more precisely referred to as `` मामला fatality rate `` ( CFR ).
एक distinguishes:
The crude मौत रेट, the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति year per 1000 people.
the crude मौत रेट लिये the पूरे संसार is परिचय 8.37 प्रति 1000 प्रति साल according to the current CIA World Factbook.
The perinatal मृत्यु रेट, the योग of neonatal मौतों और fetal मौतों ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births.
The maternal mortality ratio, the क्रमांक of मातृ मौतों प्रति 100,000 सजीव births in same time period.
The maternal mortality rate, the क्रमांक of मातृ मौतों प्रति 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive आयु in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally defined as 15–44 years of age ).
The infant mortality rate, the number of deaths of children कम than 1 साल बूढ़ा प्रति 1000 सजीव births.
The child mortality rate, the number of मौतों of children कम than 5 सालो बूढ़ा प्रति 1000 सजीव births.
the standardised मृत्यु अनुपात ( smr ) - इस represents a आंशिक तुलना to the संख्याएँ of मौतों कि होता have महरूम अपेक्षित if the जनसांख्यिकी था महरूम of a मानक composition in terms of age, gender, etc.
The age-specific मृत्यु रेट ( asmr ) - इस refers to the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल प्रति 1000 people of a given age ( e.g. age 62 last birthday ).
In regard to the or failure of medical treatment or प्रक्रियाओं, एक होता भी distinguish:
The early mortality रेट, the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the जल्दी चरण of an जारी उपचार, or in the period immediately following an treatment.
The late mortality rate, the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the लेट चरण of an जारी उपचार, or a significant length of time after an acute treatment.
Note that the crude मौत रेट as पारिभाषित ऊपर और लागू to a पूरे जनसांख्यिकी can दे a भ्रामक impression.
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and लिंग ) विशिष्ट मृत्यु दरों और the आयु ( और लिंग ) वितरण of the जनसांख्यिकी.
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for विकसित राष्ट्र than in less-developed देशों, despite जीवन प्रत्याशा होने उच्चतर in विकसित देशों due to standards of health being better.
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely अलग जनसांख्यिकी आयु वितरण, साथ a much उच्चतर proportion of पुरानी लोगों, due to दोनो निम्नतर हाल जनम दरों और निम्नतर मृत्यु rates.
A more complete picture of mortality is दिए by a जीवन तालिका जिससे shows the मृत्यु रेट separately for each age.
A life table is जरुरी to दे a शुभ अनुमान of life expectancy.
An otoacoustic उत्सर्जन ( oae ) is a ध्वनि जिससे is उत्पन्न from within the inner ear.
having महरूम पूर्वानुमानित by थामस सुनहरा in 1948, इसके अस्तित्व थी पहला demonstrated experimentally by दाउद kemp in 1978 और otoacoustic emissions have since been shown to arise by a number of different cellular mechanisms within the inner ear.
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been क्षतिग्रस्त, so oaes हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त in the प्रयोगशाला और the क्लिनिक as a माप of inner ear health.
Broadly speaking, there are two types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ), which can occur बगैर बाह्य उत्तेजनाओं, और जगाई otoacoustic emissions ( eoaes ), जिससे आवश्यकता an evoking stimulus.
Hurricane टॉमस थी the उन्नीसवीं नामित तूफ़ान और बारहवीं hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season.
Tomas developed इससे a तीव्र वेव ईस्ट of the windward Islands on October 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it स्थानांतरित through the windward आइलैंड्स और passed very near Saint Lucia.
After reaching श्रेणी 2 औकात on the saffir-simpson स्केल, टॉमस जल्दी weakened to a तीव्र storm in the central Caribbean Sea, due to strong wind shear and dry air.
Tomas later regained hurricane औकात as it reorganized near the Windward passage.
Throughout the hurricane 's path, 71 people are known to have महरूम मारे, 14 of जिसको यहूद in संत Lucia.
मौद्रिक नुकसान throughout the windward आइलैंड्स यहूद अनुमानित at US $ 588 million, mainly in Saint Lucia.
In the wake of the storm in हैती, बाढ़ intensified an जारी हैजा outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in December 2010, 55 लोगों यहूद मारे in क्यूबा और hispanola, हालांकि the वितरण of ये fatalities are unknown.
Overall क्षति इससे the तूफ़ान थी at तनिक $ 741 लाख.
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an अमरीकी हास्य, अभिनेत्री, satirist, सिंगर और अंतरजाल ब्लॉगर बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a डाल सदस्य of the NBC television sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992.
वो रै प्राप्त ध्यान as a गायन आलोचक of अध्यक्ष बराक Obama, and is an active participant in the Tea Party movement.
Postmodern साहित्य is साहित्य characterized by भारी रिलायंस on तकनीकों जैसे fragmentation, विरोधाभास, और questionable narrators, और is प्रायः ( हालांकि नहीं exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era.
postmodern works हैं देखी as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध आत्मज्ञान सोच और modernist approaches to literature.
Postmodern literature, जैसे postmodernism as a पूरे, tends to resist परिभाषा or वर्गीकरण as a `` movement ''.
Indeed, the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory, particularly reader-response और deconstructionist approaches, और the subversions of the अव्यक्त अनुबंध between लेखक, टेक्स्ट और रीडर by जिससे इसके works हैं प्रायः characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions ऐसे as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold.
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics, scope, and importance of postmodern साहित्य, as is प्रायः the मामला साथ कलाकारी आंदोलनों, postmodern साहित्य is commonly पारिभाषित in संबंध to a precursor.
For example, a postmodern literary work tends not to conclude साथ the neatly tied-up समाप्ति as is प्रायः मिला in modernist साहित्य, but often parodies it.
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate chance over craft, और further employ metafiction to undermine the लेखक 's प्राधिकार.
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions between high and low culture through the उपयोग of pastiche, the संयोजन of विषय और जाति नहीं previously deemed अनुरूप लिये literature.
Enigma is an electronic musical प्रोजेक्ट संस्थापित in जर्मनी by माइकल cretu, दाउद Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990.
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany, but आधारित उसके रिकॉर्डिंग स्टुडियो a.r.t. studios in ibiza, स्पेन, इससे the जल्दी 1990s जबतक may 2009, जहाँ he रै अंकित सब of पहेली 's स्टुडियो रिलीज to date.
Cretu is both the composer और the निर्माता of the project.
His पूर्व बीवी, पॉप सिंगर सैंड्रा, प्रायः provided vocals on Enigma tracks.
Jens gad co-arranged और निभाई guitar on three of the Enigma albums.
Peter कॉर्नेलियस भी contributed to पहेली during the 1990s.
Seven studio albums have been produced अंतर्गत the नाम of the प्रोजेक्ट.
Scooby-Doo is an American animated cartoon franchise, comprising several animated टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित इससे 1969 to the present day.
The original series, scooby-doo, जहाँ हैं तुम !
, was created for hanna-barbera प्रोडक्शन्स by लेखक जो माणिक्य और केन स्पीयर्स in 1969.
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones, daphne ब्लेक, velma dinkley, और norville `` shaggy '' रोजर्स — और उनके talking भूरा ग्रेट डेन श्वान नामित scooby-doo, who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps.
Following the success of the असली श्रेणी, hanna-barbera और इसके successor warner ब्रदर्स. एनिमेशन have उत्पादित numerous follow-up और spin-off एनिमेटेड श्रेणी और अनेक सम्बन्धित works, सहित टेलीविज़न specials and telefilms, a line of direct-to-video films, and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films.
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different variations on the show 's supernatural theme, and include characters such as Scooby 's cousin scooby-dum और भतीजे scrappy-doo in जोड to or बजाय of कुछ of the असली वर्ण.
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on CBS from 1969 to 1976, जब it स्थानांतरित to ABC.
ABC aired the show until canceling it in 1986, और प्रस्तुत a spin-off featuring the वर्ण as children, a pup नामित scooby-doo, इससे 1988 until 1991.
Two new Scooby-Doo श्रेणी, कया 's नई, scooby-doo ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue ! ] ], aired as भाग of बच्चे wb on the wb संजाल और इसके successor, the cw संजाल, from 2002 until 2008.
The most recent scooby-doo श्रेणी, scooby-doo !
रहस्य incorporated, aired on कार्टून संजाल from 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on Cartoon Network and boomerang in the संयुक्त राज्य और अन्य देशों.
Call of Duty is a first-person और third-person शूटर computer/ वीडियो game franchise.
the श्रेणी began on the pc, और बाद विस्तारित to consoles and handhelds.
Several spin-off खेल have भी महरूम released.
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in World War II, this includes : Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2, और कॉल of ड्यूटी 3.
Beginning साथ आधुनिक warfare, जिससे is नियत in आधुनिक times, the series has shifted focus away from World War II.
Call of Duty 4 : आधुनिक warfare ( released नवम्बर 2007 ) थी followed by कॉल of ड्यूटी : संसार at युद्ध और Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2.
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the ठंडा युद्ध, जबकि आधुनिक warfare 3 ( released नवम्बर 2011 ) takes प्लेस in the near-future setting.
Black Ops 2 ( released नवम्बर 13, 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025.
The Call of Duty games are प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by एक्टिविजन साथ aspyr मीडिया प्रकाशन it for Apple OS X.
जबकि the स्टुडियो अनंत वार्ड primarily स्टिल develops उन्हें, treyarch has also developed several of the titles with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other.
Some games have been विकसित by धूसर पदार्थ इंटरैक्टिव, चिंगारी असीमित, विस्मित entertainment, n-space, विद्रोह developments, ideaworks Game Studio, Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games.
The games use a variety of engines, सहित the id तकनीक 3, the treyarch ngl, और the iw 5.0.
Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by Plan-B Toys, a card खेल निर्मित by अपर डेक, और a कॉमिक किताब mini-series प्रकाशित by wildstorm.
As of November 11, 2011, the कॉल of ड्यूटी श्रेणी have बेची over 100 million copies.
as of कूच 31, 2012 वहीँ हैं 40 लाख मासिक क्रियाशील खिलाड़ी आरपार सब of the Call of Duty titles, with 10 million Call of Duty : Elite users and 2 million paying annual members.
Over 1.6 billion hours of ऑनलाइन gameplay have महरूम logged आधुनिक warfare 3 चूंकि its 2011 release.
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether such property is transferred via a होगा, according to the राज्य कानून of intestacy or वरना बना as an घटना of the मौत of the मालिक, ऐसे as a ट्रांसफ़र of प्रॉपर्टी इससे an intestate एस्टेट or trust, or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries.
The एस्टेट कर is एक भाग of the एकीकृत तोहफा और एस्टेट कर प्रणाली in the United States.
The अन्य भाग of the प्रणाली, the तोहफा कर, imposes a कर on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी दौरान a व्यक्ति 's जीवन ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate.
In जोड to the संघीय सरकारी, अनेक राज्य भी थोपने an एस्टेट कर, with the state version called either an estate tax or an inheritance tax.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of the एस्टेट कर कॉल it the `` death tax ''.
If an asset is बाएँ to a जीवनसाथी or a federally पहचाना दान, the कर usually does not apply.
In addition, up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an व्यक्तिगत, पहले and/or upon उनके मौत, without incurring federal gift or estate taxes.
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 अक्तूबर 1967 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी कर्ता और संगीतकार, ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर और लय guitarist of the rock band Bush.
Following Bush 's separation in 2002, which lasted लिये आठ सालो, he थी the सीसे सिंगर और guitarist लिये Institute, and later began a solo career.
When performing solo, Gavin plays गीतों इससे उसके extensive musical libraries.
Rossdale रै महरूम क्रमित in the शीर्ष 100 भारी मेटल vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ).
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or March 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), बेहतर ज्ञात बस as राफेल, थी an इतालवी चित्रकार और वास्तु of the High Renaissance.
His work is admired for its clarity of form and ease of संयोजन और लिये इसके विज़ुअल उपलब्धि of the neoplatonic आदर्श of इंसान grandeur.
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da विंची, he फ़ॉर्म the परंपरागत ट्रिनिटी of ग्रेट मास्टर्स of कि काल.
Raphael was enormously उत्पादक, कार्यशील an unusually विशाल कार्यशाला, और despite his death at 37, a large body of his work remains.
Many of his works are found in the Vatican Palace, जहाँ the frescoed राफेल कक्ष यहूद the सेंट्रल, और the largest, कार्य of उसके करियर.
The best known work is the स्कूल of एथेंस in the वेटिकन Stanza della Segnatura.
After his early years in Rome much of his work was self-designed, लकिन लिये the सबसे भाग चलाया by the कार्यशाला इससे उसके drawings, with considerable loss of quality.
He was extremely influential in उसके आजीवन, हालांकि बाहर रोम उसके कार्य थी ज़्यादातर ज्ञात from his collaborative printmaking.
After his death, the influence of उसके ग्रेट प्रतिद्वंद्वी michelangelo थी अधिक फैली जबतक the 18th और 19th सदियां, जब राफेल 's अधिक serene and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest models.
His career falls naturally into तीन phases और तीन शैलियाँ, पहला वर्णित by giorgio vasari : उसके जल्दी सालो in umbria, तब a काल of परिचय चार सालो ( इससे 1504–1508 ) absorbing the कलाकारी परंपराओं of फ्लोरेंस, followed by उसके पिछला hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome, working for two Popes and their close associates.
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1967 ) is an American actress.
She became a हॉलीवुड स्टार बाद headlining the रोमांटिक कॉमेडी pretty स्त्री ( 1990 ), which grossed $ 464 million worldwide.
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations लिये स्टील magnolias ( 1989 ) और pretty स्त्री, वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ), My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ), Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting Hill ( 1999 ), Runaway Bride ( 1999 ), Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ), Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie Wilson 's युद्ध ( 2007 ), वेलेंटाइन 's दिन ( 2010 ), खा दुवा प्रेम ( 2010 ), और दर्पण दर्पण ( 2012 ) have collectively brought बक्सा दफ्तर रसीदें of over $ 2.6 अरब, बनाना her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts.
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in the संसार, टॉपिंग the हॉलीवुड पत्रकारों सालाना `` शक्ति सूची '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006.
Her fee for 1990 's pretty स्त्री थी $ 300,000 ; in 2003, वो थी सशुल्क an unprecedented $ 25 लाख for her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, रॉबर्ट्स 's जाल लायक थी अनुमानित to be $ 140 million.
Roberts has been named one of People पत्रिका 's `` 50 सबसे खूबसूरत लोगों in the संसार '' ग्यारह टाइम्स, tied साथ हैल Berry.
In 2011, she थी नामित एक of the `` 100 hottest महिलाओं of All-Time '' by Men 's Health.
In 2001, महिलाओं घर जर्नल क्रमित उसके as the 11th सबसे शक्तिशाली woman in the United States.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born may 14, 1984 ) is an अमरीकी कंप्यूटर प्रोग्रामर और Internet entrepreneur.
He is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as एक of पाँच co-founders of the सोशल नेटवर्किंग website Facebook.
As of April 2013, Zuckerberg is the अध्यक्ष और मुख्य कार्यपालिका of फेसबुक, Inc. and in 2013 his personal wealth was estimated to be US $ 13.3 billion.
Together with his college roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin, एंड्रयू mccollum, डस्टिन moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस, zuckerberg शुभारम्भ फेसबुक from Harvard 's dormitory rooms.
The group तब introduced फेसबुक onto अन्य campuses देशभर और स्थानांतरित to पालो आल्टो, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three years, Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of फेसबुक और the क्रमांक of फेसबुक उपयोक्ता विश्वव्यापी पहुँचे a कुल of एक अरब in 2012.
Zuckerberg was involved in विभिन्न विधिक विवादों कि यहूद initiated by अन्य in the समूह, जो claimed a share of the कम्पनी based upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook.
Since 2010, zuckerberg रै महरूम नामित among the 100 wealthiest और सबसे influential people in the world by Time magazine as a part of its Person of the Year accolade.
Zuckerberg was played by कर्ता जेसी eisenberg in the 2010 हॉलीवुड फिल्मी the सोशल Network in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed.
The Mayflower was the जलयान कि in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a कोर group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is one of travail और अस्तित्व in a हर्ष नई संसार environment.
framedthe
Committee of Ways and Means is the मुख्य कर -writing कमेटी of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any other हाउस समितियों जबतक वे लागू लिये a waiver इससे उनके पार्टी 's congressional leadership.
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation, tariffs और अन्य revenue-raising उपायों, as खूब as a क्रमांक of other programs including:
Social सुरक्षा
बेरोजगारी लाभ
medicare
प्रवर्तन of चाइल्ड support laws
Temporary Assistance for मोहताज परिवारों, a संघीय welfare program
फोस्टर परवाह और अपनाना programs
The U.S. Constitution requires कि सब बिल्स regarding कराधान जरूर originate in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation जरूर go through इस कमेटी, the कमेटी is बहुत influential, as is इसके सीनेट बंटवारा, the u.S. Senate Committee on Finance.
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by चार्ली rangel, जो था लिया a छोड़ of अनुपस्थिति as अध्यक्ष जबतक हाउस आचार उल्लंघनों यहूद resolved.
However, his leave of अनुपस्थिति as अध्यक्ष थी शासित to be a इस्तीफा.
Pete Stark resigned as acting chairman, so sander levin आयोजित कि स्थिति जबतक the प्रारंभ of the 112th कॉंग्रेस.
Dave शिविर became the कमेटी कुर्सी लिये the 112th कॉंग्रेस, बाद the republicans जीती control of the House in the 2010 election.
The blue whale ( balaenoptera musculus ) is a समुद्री स्तनधारी belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ).
At in लंबाई और or अधिक in वज़न, it is the largest known animal to have ever existed.
Long and slender, the blue whale 's देह can be विभिन्न शेड्स of bluish-grey dorsally और somewhat हल्का underneath.
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific, B. m. intermedia of the दक्षिणी समंदर और B. m. brevicauda ( भी ज्ञात as the सानो ब्लू व्हेल ) मिला in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean.
B. m. इंडिका, मिला in the भारतीय समंदर, may be another subspecies.
As साथ अन्य baleen whales, इसके diet consists almost exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill.
Blue whales were abundant in nearly सब the महासागर on धरती जबतक the शुरूआत of the twentieth century.
For over a century, they were hunted लगभग to extinction by whalers जबतक सुरक्षित by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय जातियाँ in 1966.
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 ब्लू whales विश्वव्यापी, स्तिथ in at तनिक पाँच समूह.
अधिक हाल शोध into the सानो subspecies suggests इस may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest जनसांख्यिकी थी in the अंटार्कटिक, क्रमांकन लगभग 239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ).
There remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) एकाग्रता in प्रत्येक of the पूर्वी उत्तर प्रशांत, अंटार्कटिक, और भारतीय समंदर groups.
वहीँ हैं दो अधिक समूह in the उत्तर अटलांटिक, and at least two in the Southern Hemisphere.
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a किस्में of a प्रजाति of thistle cultivated as a food.
The edible matter is कलियों कि रूप भीतर the पुष्प heads पहले the flowers come into bloom.
the कलियों go दूर or बदलें to a coarse, मुश्किल edible form when the flower blooms.
The uncultivated or जंगली किस्में of the species is called a cardoon.
It is a perennial संयंत्र देशी to the Mediterranean region.
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त राज्य करेंसी.
U.S. statesman, inventor, and diplomat बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the bill.
On the reverse of the banknote is an चित्र of Independence Hall.
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been printed चूंकि जुलाई 13, 1969, जब the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, और $ 10,000 यहूद रिटायर्ड.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the औसत जीवन of a $ 100 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 90 महीने ( 7.5 सालो ) पहले it is replaced due to wear and tear.
The bills हैं भी commonly referred to as `` benjamins '', in सन्दर्भ to the उपयोग of बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन 's portrait on the denomination, or `` C-Notes '', based on the Roman numeral for 100.
the विधेयक is एक of दो denominations मुद्रित आज कि करता नहीं विशेषता a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ; the other is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander Hamilton.
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the रिवर्स, according to the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण, shows लगभग 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar bills हैं वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21, 2010, and was to be issued to the public on February 11, 2011, लकिन उत्पादन थी shut bas in दिसम्बर 2010 क्युकी as अनेक as 30 % यहूद अनुपयोगी due to a निर्माण flaw.
A vertical क्रीज in the पेपर reveals a रिक्त स्पेस on the विधेयक when pulled out.
In their replacement, and continuing the ऊँची माँग of इस denomination, the श्रेणी 2006a थी शुभारम्भ retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ).
On अप्रैल 24, 2013, the संघीय आरक्षित घोषित the नई $ 100 विधेयक would enter circulation on October 8, 2013.
किंग दाउद in robes of a बीज़ान्टिन emperor.
Miniature इससे the पेरिस psalter.
David ( ; आईएसओ 259-3 dawid ; ' ; दमदार 's : daveed ) according to the यहूदी बाइबल, थी the दूसरी किंग of the संयुक्त किंगडम of इसराईल, और according to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
His life is conventionally दिनाँक to c. 1040–970 bce, उसके शासनकाल over यहूदा c. 1010–1002 bce, और his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE.
The Books of Samuel, 1 Kings, and 1 Chronicles are the only sources of information on David, although the Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of David '', which most विद्वानों लो as पुष्टि of the अस्तित्व in the mid-9th सदी bce of a judean royal राजवंश पुकारा the हाउस of David.
He is depicted as a righteous किंग, हालांकि नहीं बगैर त्रुटियां, as खूब as an acclaimed योद्धा, संगीतकार, और कवि, traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms.
David is सेंट्रल to यहूदी, ईसाई, और इस्लामी doctrine and culture.
biblical परंपरा maintains कि a सीधा वंशज of David will be the Messiah.
In Islam he is माना to be a नबी और the किंग of a nation.
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the पूंजी और largest शहरी agglomerate of Nepal.
The agglomerate consists of काठमांडू महानगर नगर at इसके कोर, और इसके सिस्टर शहरों Patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
It also includes the recently पहचाना शहरी क्षेत्रों of shankhapur, karyabinayak, और champapur.
Banepa, dhulikhel, और panauti हैं उपग्रह शहरी क्षेत्रों of काठमांडू located just outside the Kathmandu valley.
Kathmandu is also known informally as `` ktm '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, Kathmandu metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the agglomerate रै a जनसांख्यिकी of अधिक than 2.5 लाख निवासियों.
The metropolitan नगर क्षेत्रफल is और रै a जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व of 19,250 per km2.
The city stands at an उन्नयन of लगभग in the bowl-shaped काठमांडू Valley of central Nepal.
It is surrounded by four प्रमुख kyu : shivapuri, phulchoki, nagarjun, and Chandragiri.
Kathmandu Valley is part of three जिले ( काठमांडू, ललितपुर, और भक्तपुर ), रै the उच्चतम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व in the country, and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population.
दौरान rana और शाह eras, the नाम `` नेपाल '' referred तभी to the काठमांडू घाटी ; it थी कया people who lived outside the valley called it.
During this काल, अंग्रेजों इतिहासकारों पुकारा the घाटी itself `` Nepal Proper ''.
Today, Kathmandu is नहीं तभी the पूंजी of the संघीय लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of नेपाल, लकिन भी the मुख्यालय of the Central Development Region of Nepal.
The Central Region comprises three zones : bagmati, narayani, और जनकपुर.
Kathmandu is स्तिथ in the Bagmati Zone.
काठमांडू is the गेटवे to पर्यटन in Nepal.
It is भी the तंत्रिका बीच of the देश 's economy.
It has the most advanced infrastructure of कोई शहरी क्षेत्रफल in नेपाल, और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is केन्द्रित on tourism, which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( Tourism in Kathmandu अस्वीकृत thereafter दौरान a काल of राजनैतिक अशांति, लकिन चूंकि तब रै improved. )
The city has a rich इतिहास, spanning nearly 2000 सालो, as inferred इससे inscriptions मिला in the valley.
Religious and सांस्कृतिक festivities रूप a प्रमुख भाग of the जीवनदान of people residing in Kathmandu.
Most of Kathmandu 's लोगों follow हिंदुत्व और अनेक अन्य follow buddhism.
There are people of other religious beliefs as खूब, giving काठमांडू a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन संस्कृति.
Nepali is the most commonly बोला भाषा in the नगर.
Nepal Bhasa is the स्वदेशी भाषा बोला by the Newar people.
Hindi is widely understood and अंग्रेज़ी is समझा by काठमांडू 's शिक्षित निवासियों.
The city 's साक्षरता रेट is 98 %.
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are अभिन्न to काठमांडू 's सांस्कृतिक विरासत, पर्यटन उद्योग, और अर्थव्यवस्था ; इसलिए युनेस्को 's संसार विरासत साईट सूचियाँ सब तीन शहरों ' स्मारक और आकर्षण साथ अंतर्गत one heading, `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site ``.
Field hockey, usually referred to simply as hockey, is a team sport of the hockey family जिससे is निभाई between दो टीमों of ग्यारह खिलाड़ी साथ हॉकी sticks और a मुश्किल, ठोस प्लास्टिक ball.
At the turn of the 21st century, the game is played globally, with particular popularity throughout यूरोपीय, एशिया, महासागरीय, और दक्षिण अमेरिका – in जोड to होने the नेशनल खेल of पाकिस्तानी और India.
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada, the United States, और अन्य regions of the संसार जहाँ the खेल of बर्फ हॉकी is अधिक लोकप्रिय.
During play, goal keepers are the तभी खिलाड़ी जो हैं अनुमत to टच the बॉल साथ कोई भाग of उनके देह ( साथ the एक्सेप्शन of a खिलाड़ी 's हाथ माना 'part of the स्टिक ' ), साथ इस तभी applying भीतर the शूटिंग वृत्त ( भी ज्ञात as the d, or शूटिंग arc, or just the circle ), while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick.
the टोली कि स्कोर the सबसे लक्ष्य by the end of the match wins.
If the score is tied at the end of the game, either a draw is घोषित or the खेल goes into अतिरिक्त समय and/or a दंड गोलीबारी, depending on the प्रतियोगिता 's format.
The governing body of hockey is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय हॉकी संघ ( fih ), साथ मेन और महिलाओं होने represented internationally in प्रतियोगिताओं सहित the ओलम्पिक खेल, राष्ट्रमंडल खेल, हॉकी संसार कप, champions ट्रॉफी and Junior Hockey World Cup, with many countries running extensive junior, senior, and masters ' club competitions.
The FIH is also responsible for organising the हॉकी नियम फलक और विकासशील the नियम for the sport.
A popular variant of field hockey is indoor hockey, which differs in a क्रमांक of respects जबकि मूर्त the प्राथमिक सिद्धान्त of hockey.
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side रूपांतर, साथ a फ़ील्ड जिससे is reduced to approximately 40m × 20m.
With many of the rules remaining the वही, सहित रुकावट और फीट, वहीँ हैं अनेक कुंजी विसंगतियाँ - खिलाड़ी may नहीं उठाएँ the बॉल जबतक शूटिंग on लक्ष्य, खिलाड़ी may नहीं hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off.
Ethan `` Cane '' ashby ( né एटकिन्सन ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी सीबीएस साबुन ओपेरा The Young and the Restless.
He is portrayed by Australian actor Daniel Goddard, who originally auditioned लिये ब्रैड स्नाइडर on as the संसार turns लकिन थी अनुशंसित लिये a भूमिका on the यंग and the Restless instead.
the भूमिका थी to be portrayed as an अमरीकी, लकिन गोडार्ड 's ऑस्ट्रेलियाई descent influenced the character 's background.
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the एपीसोड airing on जनवरी 12, 2007 as an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई बारटेंडर in ढूंढें of उसके परिवार, a डेब्यू कि प्राप्त a मिश्रित response.
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the character 's पृष्ठभूमि थी rewritten by मरिया एरिना घंटी in 2009, reestablishing उसे as the बेटे of कोलिन और genevieve एटकिन्सन ( ट्रिस्टन रोजर्स और Genie Francis ).
Though characterized as `` रहस्यमय '', cane is `` वफ़ादार और समर्पित '', while Goddard described the character as a `` typical Australian, working-class kind of guy ''.
He was the पहला सदस्य of the एटकिन्सन परिवार to appear on the series, followed by his parents and identical twin brother.
Soon after his debut, he became a अग्रणी अक्षर, a निर्णय praised by दर्शक और critics.
The character has been involved with एम्बर मूर ( adrienne frantz ), क्लो मिशेल ( एलिज़ाबेथ hendrickson ) और सबसे notably लिली सर्दियों ( christel Khalil ), a romance that garnered significant fan attention.
In 2009, cane और लिली यहूद शादीशुदा ; वैश्विक bc होता बाद कॉल लिली the love of Cane 's life.
The pair था दो children, चार्ली और mattie ashby.
In 2011, the actor थी fired, और cane थी शॉट to मौत onscreen.
However, Goddard was rehired soon बाद दर्शक campaigned लिये उसके वापसी, revealing कि cane 's एकसमान twin brother was in fact the man who died.
This कुर्बान उसके विवाह to लिली, लकिन the युगल यहूद remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012.
Goddard has been widely acclaimed लिये उसके portrayal ; canyon न्यूज कहा कि he portrays the अक्षर honestly, और is `` सदा dependable, on fire and exciting ''.
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, फिल्मी निर्माता, और संगीतकार.
He has won the Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार और स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार for Best Actor.
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s टेलीविज़न श्रेणी 21 जम्प गली, बनने a teen idol.
Dissatisfied with that status, Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office कामयाबी in films ऐसे as sleepy खोखला ( 1999 ), चार्ली और the चॉकलेट फैक्टरी ( 2005 ), ऐलिस in वंडरलैंड ( 2010 ), rango ( 2011 ) और the pirates of the caribbean फिल्मी श्रेणी ( 2003–present ).
He has collaborated with निदेशक और dost टिम बर्टन in आठ films ; the सबसे हाल होने Dark Shadows ( 2012 ).
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in donnie brasco, शिकारी S. थॉम्पसन in भय और loathing in लास वेगास, जार्ज जंग in उड़ा, और the बैंको डाकू जॉन dillinger in माइकल Mann 's Public Enemies.
Films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 अरब at the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर और over $ 7.6 अरब worldwide.
He has been nominated for top awards many times, winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy ग्लोब्स –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy लिये स्वीनी टॉड : the राक्षस नाई of बेड़े गली और इससे the स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड लिये pirates of the caribbean : the Curse of the Black Pearl.
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in American cinema, being twice नामित as the `` sexiest man जिंदा `` by लोगों पत्रिका in 2003 और 2009.
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness किताब of संसार रिकॉर्ड as the उच्चतम सशुल्क कर्ता, with $ 75 million.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ), is a प्रणाली of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, one can view web pages कि may contain टेक्स्ट, बिंब, वीडियो, और अन्य मल्टीमीडिया, और navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the cern, सर टिम berners-lee, अभी निदेशक of the संसार चौड़ी वेब consortium ( w3c ), लिखा a प्रस्ताव in कूच 1989 लिये कया होता eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, berners-lee और belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of नोड in जिससे the उपयोक्ता can ब्राउज़ at होगा '', और वे सरेआम introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in दिसम्बर of the वही year.
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born नवम्बर 11, 1986 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the नई यॉर्क jets of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the पहला गोलाकार of the 2009 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट as the पांचवां overall चयन by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall.
He निभाई कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी California ( USC ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined और एथलेटिक परिवार.
In the eighth ग्रेड, he began to खेल फ़ुटबॉल और सीख the intricacies of the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति, training with his father, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, सांचेज़ वचनबद्ध to दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया following उसके कामयाब high school career in which he led his team to a championship title during his final season.
At USC, Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first तीन सालो हालांकि he रोज़ to prominence due to उसके ब्रैड दिखावे on the फ़ील्ड in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty.
सांचेज़ भी became लोकप्रिय भीतर the जातियाँ due to his Mexican-American heritage.
Named the starter in 2008, Sanchez led USC to a 12–1 record and won the रोज़ कटोरी विरूद्ध penn राज्य लिये जिससे सांचेज़ थी awarded the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार लिये उसके प्रदर्शन on offense.
Although many considered him too अनुभवहीन, सांचेज़ घोषित उसके इरादे to डालें the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up साथ the क्लीवलैंड भूरा, और थी नामित the starting क्वार्टरबैक prior to the प्रारंभ of the season.
Despite a subpar performance, Sanchez led the jets to the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल, a खोने प्रयत्न to the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस, बनने the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL history to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games.
In his second season, Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs और the टोली 's दूसरी लगातार afc चैंपियनशिप खेल जहाँ वे narrowly खोया to the पिट्सबर्ग Steelers, 24–19.
With the win over the New England Patriots the week prior, सांचेज़ tied चार अन्य quarterbacks लिये the दूसरी सबसे post-season सड़क victories by a quarterback in NFL history.
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships, Sanchez joined quarterback Ben roethlisberger as the तभी दो quarterbacks in एनएफएल इतिहास to पहुँचें the सम्मेलन चैंपियनशिप in उनके पहला दो सीज़न in the league.
The अगला दो सीज़न होता be a स्लोप लिये दोनो the टोली और Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs.
Fans और मीडिया आलोचकों पुकारा लिये a struggling Sanchez to be benched.
He आखिरकार थी replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy.
Paul एवेरी ( अप्रैल 2, 1934december 10, 2000 ) थी an अमरीकी पुलिस रिपोर्टर, बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके कहानियां on the infamous सीरियल कातिल known as the Zodiac, and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping.
A small submersible AC sump pump साथ a गार्डन नली कनेक्टर
A sump pump is a pump used to remove water कि रै संचित in a जल collecting sump जलाशय, commonly मिला in the तहखाने of homes.
the जल may डालें via the घेरा नालों of a तहखाने waterproofing प्रणाली, funneling into the basin or because of rain or natural ground water, if the basement is below the water table level.
Sump पंपों हैं प्रयुक्त जहाँ तहखाने बाढ़ happens regularly और to उपाय dampness जहाँ the water table is above the foundation of a home.
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place where it is no longer समस्यापूर्ण, ऐसे as a नगरपालिका तूफ़ान नाली or a शुष्क खूब.
Pumps may निर्वहन to the sanitary सीवर in पुरानी संस्थापना.
एकबार माना स्वीकार्य, इस अभ्यास may अभी violate the plumbing कोड or नगरपालिका bylaws, क्युकी it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system.
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect और reroute sump पंप निर्वहन away from sanitary sewers.
Fines may be imposed लिये noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited उनके sump पंप configurations और do नहीं एहसास that the pump discharges to the sewer.
If the discharge is fed to a laundry डूबना in the तहखाने, it 's संभावित going to the sewer.
Usually hardwired into a home 's electrical प्रणाली, sump पंपों may have a बैटरी बैकअप.
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps, eliminating the need लिये विद्युत at the व्यय of using potable जल, potentially बनाना उन्हें अधिक महंगी to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem.
Since a sump जलाशय may अतिप्रवाह if नहीं constantly उत्तेजित, a बैकअप प्रणाली is महत्वपूर्ण लिये मामले जब the प्रमुख शक्ति is out for prolonged periods of time, as during a severe storm.
There are generally दो प्रकार of sump पंपों — pedestal and submersible.
The pedestal pump 's motor is mounted above the sump, जहाँ it is अधिक easily सर्विस, लकिन is भी more conspicuous.
The pump impeller is चलित by a long, लंबवत एक्सटेंशन शाफ्ट और the impeller is in a स्क्रॉल housing in the base of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely आरोहित अंदर the sump, और is विशेषकर sealed to prevent विद्युत short circuits.
Sump pump systems are also utilized in औद्योगिक और वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग to कंट्रोल जल तालिका -सुनानाd समस्याएं in सतह मृदा.
An artesian aquifer or आवधिक ऊँची जल तालिका हालात can कारण the मैदान to become unstable due to water saturation.
as long as the पंप कृत्यों, the सतह मृदा will remain stable.
ये sumps हैं typically टेन फीट in गहराई or अधिक ; lined साथ corrugated मेटल पाइप कि contains perforations or drain holes throughout.
वे may शामिल इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंट्रोल प्रणालियों साथ विज़ुअल और audible सचेतक और हैं प्रायः covered to prevent debris and animals from falling in.
Bleeding Kansas, Bloody Kansas or the किनारा युद्ध, थी a श्रेणी of हिंसक राजनैतिक confrontations involving anti-slavery free-staters और pro-slavery `` किनारा ruffian `` तत्व, कि took प्लेस in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861.
At the heart of the conflict was the question of whether कान्सास होता डालें the संघ as a फ़्री state or slave state.
As such, Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between Northerners and southerners over the समस्या of गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by होरेस greeley of the नई यॉर्क ट्रिब्यून ; the कार्यक्रम it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War.
कॉंग्रेस था long struggled to संतुलन the रूचि of pro-slavery शक्तियां और anti-slavery forces.
The events later known as bleeding कान्सास यहूद नियत into गति by the kansas–nebraska अधिनियम of 1854, which nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty.
An ostensibly democratic idea, popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it होता be a फ़्री or स्लेव राज्य ; however, इस resulted in आव्रजन en masse to कान्सास by कार्यकर्ताओं इससे दोनो sides.
At one point, Kansas had two separate governments, प्रत्येक साथ इसके अपना संविधान, हालांकि तभी एक थी federally recognized.
On January 29, 1861, कान्सास थी admitted to the संघ as a फ़्री राज्य, कम than तीन महीने before the Battle of Fort Sumter which began the Civil War.
Benzene is an organic रासायनिक यौगिक साथ the आणविक सूत्र c6 h|hydrogen|h6.
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon अणु joined in a रिंग, साथ 1 हाइड्रोजन अणु संलग्न to प्रत्येक कार्बन atom.
क्युकी इसके अणुओं contain तभी कार्बन और हाइड्रोजन अणु, बेंजीन is classed as a hydrocarbon.
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude आयल, और is एक of the सबसे basic petrochemicals.
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the दूसरी [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a चक्रीय हाइड्रोकार्बन साथ a निरन्तर pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated ph –h. बेंजीन is a colorless और अत्यधिक ज्वलनशील liquid with a sweet smell.
It is मुख्यतः प्रयुक्त as a precursor to भारी रसायन, ऐसे as ethylbenzene और cumene, which are produced on a billion kilogram scale.
Because it has a high octane क्रमांक, it is an महत्वपूर्ण घटक of गैसोलीन, composing a few percent of its mass.
Most non-industrial अनुप्रयोग have महरूम सीमित by बेंजीन 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni Virginio स्क्यापारेल्ली ( ; 14 कूच 1835 – 4 जुलाई 1910 ) थी an इतालवी astronomer और विज्ञान इतिहासकार.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of निन्टेंडो 's वी खेल कंसोल to run software that has not been authorized by Nintendo.
It achieves this by defeating the Wii 's नक़ल सुरक्षा और कोड हस्ताक्षर उपायों.
In more general terms, Wii Homebrew refers to the use of the वी 's हार्डवेयर, accessories और तन्त्र लिये उद्देश्य बाहर those intended by the manufacturer.
Original efforts focused on using the Wii Remote as a pointing device on other ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों, or कार्यशील web-based खेल in the built-in वेब ब्राउजर.
Subsequent developments in games exploits, ऐसे as the `` गोधूलि हैक ``, `` bannerbomb '' और इसके बाद अवतार `` letterbomb '', `` तोड़ स्टेक '', `` इंडियाना Pwns '', `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '', `` bathaxx '', and `` Return of the Jodi '', made installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible.
हैडली ( सही ) discussing the 2006 israel-lebanon crisis with Bush and Rice.
स्टीफन जॉन हैडली ( born फ़रवरी 13, 1947 ) थी the 21st u.S. सहायक to the अध्यक्ष लिये National Security Affairs ( commonly referred as National Security Advisor ), serving under President George W. Bush.
Take identical growing पौधे और दे उर्वरक to हाफ of them.
If there are differences between the fertilized संयंत्र समूह और the unfertilized `` कंट्रोल '' समूह, ये मतभेद may be due to the उर्वरक.
A scientific control is an experiment or observation designed to minimize the प्रभाव of परिवर्तनीय अन्य than the single independent variable.
This increases the reliability of the परिणाम, प्रायः through a तुलना between कंट्रोल माप and the other measurements.
Scientific controls are a भाग of the वैज्ञानिक विधि.
For example, during drug testing, वैज्ञानिकों होगा कोशिश to कंट्रोल दो समूह to रखना उन्हें as एकसमान as संभावित, तब allow एक समूह to कोशिश the ड्रग.
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to only half the पौधे in a गार्डन : the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक हैं the कंट्रोल समूह, क्युकी वे स्थापित the बेसलाइन स्तर of विकास कि the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against.
Without a कंट्रोल समूह, the प्रयोग can नहीं determine whether the fertilizer-treated पौधे grow अधिक than they would have if untreated.
Ideally, all परिवर्तनीय in an प्रयोग होगा be नियंत्रित ( accounted लिये by the कंट्रोल measurements ) and none will be uncontrolled.
In such an experiment, if all the controls work as अपेक्षित, it is संभावित to conclude कि the प्रयोग is working as intended और कि the परिणाम of the प्रयोग are due to the effect of the variable being tested.
That is, वैज्ञानिक नियंत्रण allow an अन्वेषक to मेक a अर्जी जैसे `` दो परिस्थितियों were identical until factor X occurred.
Since factor X is the only difference between the दो परिस्थितियों, the नई निष्कर्ष थी caused by फ़ैक्टर x. ''
< < रासायनिक तत्व data references
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) थी the दूसरी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1797–1801 ), having पहले परोसा as the पहला वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य.
An American Founding Father, he was a statesman, राजनयिक, और a अग्रणी एडवोकेट of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे Great Britain.
Well शिक्षित, he थी an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically about his often seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the जल्दी चरण of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
A lawyer and public फिगर in बोस्टन, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, he निभाई a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, और थी इसके प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in the कॉंग्रेस.
बाद, as a राजनयिक in यूरोपीय, he helped negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, और थी जिम्मेदार for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on सरकारी, बहकावे American political thought.
One of his greatest roles थी as a न्यायधीश of अक्षर : in 1775, he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief, और 25 सालो later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' क्रांतिकारी श्रेय secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन 's वाइस president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना federalist पार्टी led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the विवादास्पद एलियन और राजद्रोह अधिनियमों, और निर्मित up the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the फेस of हैमिल्टन 's opposition.
In 1800, Adams was defeated for re-election by थामस जेफरसन और रिटायर्ड to मैसाचुसेट्स.
He later resumed उसके दोस्ती साथ जेफरसन.
He and his wife, Abigail Adams, founded an संपन्नता परिवार लकीर of राजनेता, राजनयिकों, और इतिहासकारों अभी referred to as the Adams political family.
एडम्स थी the पिता of जॉन क्विंसी Adams, the sixth President of the United States.
His achievements have received greater मान्यता in आधुनिक टाइम्स, हालांकि उसके योगदान यहूद नहीं initially as मनाये as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the भवन कि आखिरकार became known as the White House.
A Watt भाप इंजन.
The steam engine, fuelled primarily by coal, propelled the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और the world.
The औद्योगिक क्रान्ति थी the परिवर्तन to नई निर्माण प्रक्रियाओं कि occurred in the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840.
This transition included going from hand production methods to machines, नई रासायनिक निर्माण और आयरन उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं, improved दक्षता of जल शक्ति, the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools.
The परिवर्तन भी शामिल the बदलें इससे लकडी and other bio-fuels to coal.
The Industrial revolution began in ब्रिटेन और भीतर a few दशकों स्प्रेड to पश्चिमी यूरोपीय और the संयुक्त States.
The Industrial Revolution marks a प्रमुख turning पाइंट in इतिहास ; लगभग प्रत्येक पहलू of रोज़ जीवन थी बहकावे in कुछ way.
Most notably, average income और जनसांख्यिकी began to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented sustained growth.
In the शब्द of नोबेल पुरस्कार विजेता रॉबर्ट E. लुकास, jr., `` लिये the पहला समय in इतिहास, the जीना मानकों of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained growth... Nothing remotely like this economic behavior is mentioned by the classical economists, even as a theoretical possibility. ''
विलियम घंटी स्कॉट आयरन and Coal, 1855-60
The period of time covered by the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति varies साथ अलग इतिहासकारों.
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s and was not fully लगा जबतक the 1830s or 1840s, जबकि T. S. एश्टन आयोजित कि it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued कि the प्रक्रम of आर्थिक और सोशल बदलें took प्लेस धीरे और the पद क्रान्ति is a misnomer.
This is still a विषय of बहस among इतिहासकारों.
GDP per capita was broadly stable before the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति और the emergence of the modern capitalist economy.
The Industrial क्रान्ति began an era of per-capita आर्थिक विकास in पूंजीवादी economies.
Economic historians are in agreement that the onset of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण इवेंट in the इतिहास of मानवता चूंकि the domestication of पशु और पौधे.
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870, when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of steam-powered नौकाएँ, जहाजों और रेल, the विशाल स्केल manufacture of यंत्र टूल्स और the increasing उपयोग of भाप संचालित factories.
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born September 27, 1969 ), is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न न्यूज रिपोर्टर, फिलहाल appearing on फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल.
This list ranks U.S. cities by जमीन क्षेत्रफल ( नहीं सहित लाशें of water ).
Total areas ( सहित जल ) हैं भी दिए, लकिन नोट कि, जब क्रमित by कुल क्षेत्रफल, a क्रमांक of तटीय शहरों appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San फ्रांसिस्को is an चरम उदाहरण ; जल makes up nearly 80 % of इसके कुल क्षेत्रफल of 232 वर्गाकार miles ( 601 km2 ).
Note also that in अनेक मामले a नगर may be geographically विशाल primarily क्युकी इसके नगरपालिका सरकारी has merged with the government of the surrounding county.
In some cases the county no longer exists, जबकि in अन्य the व्यवस्था रै formed a संचित city–county ( or city- बरो in अलास्का, or city- parish in Louisiana ).
These are shown in bold in the सूची नीचे ( लकिन नहीं सब उदाहरण may be indicated ).
** These are स्वतंत्र शहरों, अर्थ वे हैं नहीं a भाग of any county.
The large आंत ( or bowel, कोलन ) is the पिछला भाग of the digestive system in vertebrate animals.
इसके फलन is to अवशोषित जल इससे the बाकी indigestible food matter, and then to pass useless waste material from the body.
This article is primarily परिचय the इंसान आंत, हालांकि the सूचना परिचय इसके processes are directly applicable to most mammals.
The large intestine consists of the cecum, मलाशय और गुदा canal.
It starts in the सही iliac प्रदेश of the pelvis, बस at or नीचे the सही कमर, जहाँ it is joined to the नीचे समाप्त of the small intestine.
इससे यहाँ it continues up the उदर, तब आरपार the चौडाई of the abdominal गुहा, and then it turns down, continuing to its endpoint at the anus.
The large intestine is about long, जिससे is परिचय one-fifth of the पूरे लंबाई of the intestinal canal.
In Terminologia Anatomica the विशाल आंत शामिल the cecum, कोलन, मलाशय, और गुदा canal.
however, कुछ स्त्रोत exclude the anal canal.
The Green Bay Packers हैं an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in ग्रीन खाड़ी, विस्कॉन्सिन.
They are members of the उत्तर प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the एनएफएल, having महरूम व्यवस्थित और playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned major लीग पेशेवर खेल टोली in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The Packers हैं the पिछला vestige of `` छोटी कस्बा टीमों '' कि यहूद एकबार आम in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and जार्ज व्हिटनी calhoun, the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional टीमों in ग्रीन खाड़ी डेटिंग back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन और the मिडवेस्ट.
They joined the American Professional Football संघ ( apfa ) in 1921, the forerunner to कया is ज्ञात आज as the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base और मीडिया extends into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the टोली भी निभाई चयनित घर खेल वहीँ between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the एनएफएल ), सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर कटोरी i ), 1968 ( सुपर कटोरी ii ), 1997 ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi ) और 2011 ( सुपर कटोरी XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, कड़वा rivalries साथ उनके nfc उत्तर ( formerly the nfc सेंट्रल ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the शिकागो bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The bears-packers फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized घाटी स्तिथ in the लॉस एंजिल्स महानगर क्षेत्रफल of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य, पारिभाषित by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it.
Home to 1.76 लाख लोगों, it झूठ उत्तर of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin.
Nearly two thirds of the घाटी 's जमीन क्षेत्रफल is भाग of the नगर of लॉस Angeles.
The other incorporated शहरों in the घाटी हैं ग्लेनडेल, burbank, सैन फर्नांडो, Hidden Hills and Calabasas.
सैन फर्नांडो घाटी, Los Angeles
the exterior of the वर्तमान संसार of Coca-Cola at Pemberton Place.
The World of coca-cola, is a स्थाई प्रदर्शनी featuring the इतिहास of The Coca-Cola Company.
Its well-known विज्ञापन as खूब as a मेजबान of entertainment क्षेत्रों और आकर्षण, और is स्तिथ in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया ( जहाँ the कम्पनी 's मुख्यालय are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton, the inventor of Coca-Cola ).
as भाग of जॉर्जिया 's museums.
the complex located across Baker Street इससे centennial ओलम्पिक पार्क कि is घर to the Georgia Aquarium and future Center for Civil & Human Rights.
It opened to the public on May 24, 2007, relocating इससे और replacing the असली प्रदर्शनी.
Pretties is a 2005 विज्ञान fiction अनोखा और the दूसरी किताब of the Uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld.
It is set in a future dystopian संसार in जिससे everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by extreme cosmetic surgery upon reaching age 16.
It tells the story of किशोरावस्था टैली youngblood जो विद्रोहियों विरूद्ध society 's enforced conformity.
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26, 1971 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री sentenced to जीवन in थाना लिये murdering उसके children.
Born in Union, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, और a पूर्व छात्र of the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिण कैरोलिना संघ, वो थी convicted on जुलाई 22, 1995 लिये murdering उसके दो बेटे, 3-year-old माइकल Daniel Smith, born October 10, 1991, and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith, born August 5, 1993.
The case gained worldwide attention shortly after it विकसित, due to उसके claiming कि a ब्लैक man चुराया उसके car और kidnapped उसके बेटे.
She later claimed कि वो suffered इससे दिमागी स्वास्थ्य issues that impaired her judgment.
According to the South Carolina Department of corrections, स्मिथ होगा be योग्य लिये पैरोल on नवम्बर 4, 2024, बाद सेवारत a न्यूनतम of thirty years.
She is incarcerated at दक्षिण कैरोलिना 's leath correctional संस्था, निकट Greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit koyukon athabaskan भाषा अर्थ `` the ग्रेट एक '' ) is the उच्चतम पहाड़ शिखर in the संयुक्त राज्य और in उत्तर अमेरिका साथ a समिट elevation of above sea level.
At कुछ, the आधार to शिखर वृद्धि is माना the largest of any mountain situated entirely above sea level.
Measured by स्थलाकृतिक prominence, it is the तीसरा सबसे prominent शिखर बाद माउंट एवरेस्ट and Aconcagua.
Located in the अलास्का दायरा in the आंतरिक of us राज्य of अलास्का, it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve.
The first European to दस्तावेज़ sighting the पहाड़ थी जार्ज वैंकूवर in 1794.
In 1903, जेम्स wickersham अंकित the पहला attempt at चढ़ाई mckinley जिससे was unsuccessful.
In 1906, Frederick कुक claimed the पहला ascent जिससे थी बाद proven to be false.
The first verifiable ascent to mckinley 's समिट थी हासिल on जून 7, 1913 by चढना Hudson Stuck, Harry Karstens, Walter Harper, and Robert Tatum.
In 1951, Bradford Washburn pioneered the West Buttress रूट माना to be the safest और easiest रूट और इसलिए the सबसे लोकप्रिय फिलहाल in use.
the होंडा s600 is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Honda.
It was शुभारम्भ in कूच 1964.
उपलब्धियाँ as a roadster – bearing दमदार प्रतिरूप to the होंडा s500 – और as a fastback coupé – introduced in कूच 1965 – the s600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels.
During its production run up to 1966, the model styling होता remain pretty much the वही, साथ the सबसे notable परिवर्तन coming to the सामने grille, बम्पर, और headlights.
Powered by a DOHC, water-cooled, four-cylinder इनलाइन इंजन साथ चार carburetors, the इंजन क्षमता थी increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc.
The engine उत्पादित at 8,500 आरपीएम और था a शीर्ष speed of.
With the convertible weighing in at mere, the अतिरिक्त चादर मेटल of the कूप only added to the overall weight.
Suspension was independent साथ sealed रोलर कड़ी ड्राइव to प्रत्येक पश्च wheel.
The s600 थी the पहला द्रव्यमान marketed Honda car.
पहला offered तभी in right-hand ड्राइव, it जल्द became उपलब्धियाँ in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets.
There were a few pre-production S500s manufactured in बाएँ हाथ ड्राइव, दो or तीन भी होने दिखाया in कुछ जल्दी बिक्री विवरणिका.
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special, upgraded package called the SM600 which included, among other items, special paint colors, विशेष badging, a मानक रेडियो और स्पीकर, a खास एंटीना in the यात्री पक्ष सूर्य छज्जा, मानक reversing लाइट्स, a मानक सिगरेट हल्का, a मानक हीटर, बेहतर cushioned सीटे, और a detachable सीट track लिये जल्दी हटाना of the यात्री seat.
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964, साथ उत्पादन चढ़ाई to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965.
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the s800 ) साथ तभी 111 roadsters और 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800 coupes for the 3 year span.
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom कि depicts the teenage अनुभवों of हास्य क्रिस चट्टान ( जो is भी the narrator ) जबकि growing up in the bedford-stuyvesant पड़ोस of ब्रुकलीन, New York.
The show is set between 1983 और 1987 ; however, Rock himself was a teenager between 1978 and 1983.
Rock grew up with a boy named Kenny montero, जिसको he रै प्रायः referred to as the प्रेरणा लिये a lot of the episodes.
In many interviews, Rock has described Kenny as the कारण he मिला into कॉमेडी in the पहला प्लेस.
The show 's शीर्षक parodies the सीबीएस sitcom everybody Loves Raymond.
Rock stated : `` everybody loves रेमंड लकिन Everybody Hates Chris ! ``.
The show 's lead actors are Tyler James विलियम्स, टेरी क्रू, tichina अर्नाल्ड, tequan रिचमंड, imani हकीम, और विंसेंट Martella.
In पतन 2008, the the cw स्थानांतरित everybody hates Chris and The Game to the Friday night death slot.
The fourth season of the श्रेणी premiered शुक्रवार, अक्तूबर 3, 2008, at 8:00pm eastern/7:00pm Central.
On May 21, 2009, The CW घोषित कि it था रद्द everybody hates क्रिस.
Prior to this, executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4 matched up with his own past—dropping आउट of ऊँची स्कूल to become a comedian—and कि it थी समय to समाप्त the show.
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the दो pleural परतों, the fluid-filled स्पेस that surrounds the lungs.
excessive amounts of ऐसे द्रव can impair श्वास by limiting the expansion of the lungs during ventilation.
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old अंग्रेज़ी वीर एपिक कविता consisting of 3182 alliterative long लाइनों, नियत in scandinavia, commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature.
It survives in a single पाण्डुलिपि ज्ञात as the nowell codex.
Its संयोजन by an बेनाम anglo-saxon कवि is dated between the 8th and the early 11th century.
In 1731, the manuscript was badly damaged by a आग कि swept through a भवन आवास a संग्रहण of मध्यकालीन पांडुलिपियों assembled by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton.
The poem fell into obscurity for दशकों, और इसके अस्तित्व किया नहीं become widely ज्ञात again जबतक it थी मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण prepared by the icelandic-danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin.
In the poem, Beowulf, a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia, आता to the सहायता of hroðgar, the किंग of the danes, जिनकी मीड हॉल ( in heorot ) रै महरूम अंतर्गत आक्रमण by a दानव ज्ञात as Grendel.
After बियोवुल्फ़ जानबूझ उसे, grendel 's माँ हमले the हॉल और is तब भी defeated.
Victorious, Beowulf goes home to geatland in स्वीडन और बाद becomes किंग of the Geats.
बाद a काल of पचास सालो रै passed, बियोवुल्फ़ defeats a dragon, but is fatally wounded in the battle.
After his death, his attendants bury him in a tumulus, a दफ़न mound, in geatland.
Shem Ham and japheth by जेम्स tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; Sēm ; अरबी : sām ; ge'ez : ሴም, sēm ; `` renown ; समृद्धि ; नाम '' ) थी one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic literature.
He is सबसे popularly regarded as the ज्येष्ठ बेटे, हालांकि some traditions regard him as the second son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to सापेक्ष आयु of shem और उसके bhai japheth, लकिन साथ sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations.
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also, the पिता of सब the children of eber, the bhai of japheth the elder, भी to him were children born. ``.
however, the नई अमरीकी मानक बाइबल देता, `` भी to shem, the पिता of सब the children of eber, and the older brother of Japheth, children were born. ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad, ( but nearly 101 - see Chronology note, ) two years after the flood, making him barely 99 at the समय the बाढ़ began ; और कि he जिया लिये another 500 सालो बाद इस, बनाना उसके आयु at मौत 600 सालो.
the children of shem यहूद ईलम, asshur, arphaxad, lud, और Aram, in addition to daughters.
Abraham, the patriarch of the hebrews और arabs, थी एक of the वंशजों of Arphaxad.
इस्लामी साहित्य describes shem as एक of the believing sons of Noah.
Some sources even पहचानो shem as a नबी in उसके अपना सही और कि he थी the next prophet after his father.
In एक मुस्लिम लेजेंड, shem थी एक of the लोगों कि परमेश्वर बना यीशु उठाएगा as a sign to the Children of Israel.
The 1st century historian Flavius josephus, among अनेक अन्य, recounted the परंपरा कि ये पाँच बेटे यहूद the progenitors of the nations of Elam, Assyria, Chaldea, Lydia, and Syria, respectively.
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages, as a उपसमुच्चय of the afro-asiatic भाषाएं, denoting the आम भाषाई विरासत of अरबी, Aramaic, Akkadian, Ethiopic, Hebrew and Phoenician languages.
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; leviticus rabbah 25:6 ; संख्याएँ rabbah 4:8. ), shem is believed to have महरूम melchizedek, किंग of सलेम जिसको अब्राहम is अंकित to have मिले बाद the battle of the four kings.
In a few of the अनेक extra-biblical स्त्रोत कि describe उसे, shem is also credited with killing Nimrod, son of Cush.
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; भी in 1 क्रॉनिकल्स 1:4.
Geographic identifications of flavius josephus, c. 100 ad ; japheth 's बेटे दिखाया in रेड, हैम 's बेटे in blue, Shem 's sons in green.
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group inc. is a privately आयोजित कम्पनी कि is primarily an अंतरजाल डोमेन रजिस्ट्रार और web hosting company.
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006, लकिन बाद रद्द it, due to `` मार्केट uncertainties ''.
In addition to domain registration and होस्टिंग go पापा भी बिकता e-business सम्बन्धित तन्त्र और सेवाएं.
On June 24, 2011, the वॉल गली जर्नल reported कि private-equity firms केकेआर और चांदी झील साझेदार, साथ साथ a third investor, were nearing a deal to buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR, Silver Lake साझेदार और प्रौद्योगिकी क्रॉसओवर ventures था बंद the deal.
Although the खरीदें दाम थी नहीं officially घोषित it थी reported to be $ 2.25 अरब, लिये 65 % of the company.
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go पापा to वारेन adelman, जो था महरूम साथ the कम्पनी लिये परिचय 10 years.
The andorran कोट of बाहें at the Andorran parliament.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of Andorra ( ), also called the Principality of the Valleys of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in southwestern यूरोपीय, स्तिथ in the पूर्वी pyrenees kyu और bordered by स्पेन और France.
It is the sixth smallest स्वदेश in यूरोपीय, having an क्षेत्रफल of और an अनुमानित population of 85,000 in 2012.
Its capital, Andorra la वेला, is the उच्चतम पूंजी नगर in यूरोपीय, at an उन्नयन of above sea level.
the आधिकारिक भाषा is कैटलन, हालांकि Spanish, Portuguese, and French are also commonly spoken.
Created under a चार्टर in 988, the उपस्थित principality was formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a साम्राज्य headed by दो co-princes – the बिशप of Urgell and the President of France.
Andorra is a prosperous देश मुख्यतः क्युकी of इसके पर्यटन उद्योग, जिससे सेवाएं an अनुमानित 10.2 million visitors annually, and also because of its status as a tax haven.
It is नहीं a सदस्य of the यूरोपीय संघ, लकिन the euro is the de facto currency.
The people of Andorra have the 4th उच्चतम इंसान जीवन प्रत्याशा in the संसार — 82 सालो at birth.
The George Washington विश्वविद्यालयों ( gw, gwu, or जार्ज वॉशिंगटन ) is a व्यापक private, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards प्रमाणपत्र, स्नातक डिग्री, मास्टर्स डिग्री, और phds across several dozen disciplines.
The university was चार्टर्ड by an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as the columbian College in the District of Columbia.
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born October 21, 1980 ) is an American socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और occasional अभिनेत्री.
In 2007, she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a अदालत awarding उसके $ 5 लाख ; बाद in कि same year, she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up साथ the kardashians, और इसके subsequent spin-offs, सहित कोर्टनी और किम Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
In 2010, Kardashian थी the highest-earning वास्तविकता स्टार, साथ अनुमानित earnings of $ 6 million.
With sisters Kourtney and khloé, कार्दशियन co-owns the फ़ैशन बुटीक chain D-A-S-H.
She has been involved in the उत्पादन of अनेक लाइनों of कपडे और सुगंध.
In August 2011, कार्दशियन शादीशुदा बास्केट खिलाड़ी क्रिस humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
That October, कार्दशियन दायर लिये तलाक following 72 दिनों of विवाह.
The move garnered significant backlash इससे the मीडिया, जो labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
बाद 536 दिनों, कार्दशियन और humphries पहुँचे an अघोषित उपनिवेश at the लॉस एंजिल्स Superior Court, finalizing the divorce in April 2013.
aerial दृश्य of oahu साथ freeways और highways, 3D computer-generated image
fly-around दौरे of the द्वीप
Oahu ( ) or Oahu, known as `` the महफ़िल प्लेस '', is the तीसरा largest of the हवाई आइलैंड्स और the सबसे populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii.
The state पूंजी, होनोलूलू, is on Oahu 's southeast coast.
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay और बंद the पूर्वी ( windward ) coast, it रै a कुल जमीन क्षेत्रफल of, बनाना it the 20th largest द्वीप in the संयुक्त राज्य.
In the महानतम आयाम, इस volcanic द्वीप is long and across.
The लंबाई of the shoreline is.
The island is the result of two separate शील्ड ज्वालामुखी : waianae और koolau, साथ a व्यापक `` घाटी '' or काठी ( the सेंट्रल oahu मैदान ) between them.
The highest पाइंट is mt. ka'ala in the waianae दायरा, उठती to above sea level.
The base currency of the संयुक्त राज्य is the u.S. डालर, और is मुद्रित on बिल्स in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
At one time, however, u.S. करेंसी शामिल पाँच larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 यहूद मुद्रित लिये सामान्य उपयोग, और a $ 100,000 नोट थी मुद्रित लिये निश्चित आतंरिक ट्रांजेक्शन.
British होंडुरास थी a अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश in Central America.
In 1981, the colony gained पूरा स्वतंत्रता, और is अभी the स्वतंत्र स्वदेश of Belize.
पहला colonised by spaniards in the 17th सदी, the territory on the east coast of Central America, south of Mexico, became a British crown colony in 1862.
in 1964, it became a self-governing colony.
Belize became fully स्वतंत्र इससे the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1981.
Belize was the पिछला महाद्वीपीय कब्ज़ा of the संयुक्त किंगडम in the Americas.
Spelt, also known as dinkel गेहूं, or hulled गेहूं, is an प्राचीन प्रजाति of गेहूं इससे the fifth millennium BC.
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze आयु to मध्यकालीन टाइम्स ; it अभी survives as a relict क्रॉप in सेंट्रल यूरोपीय और उत्तरी स्पेन और रै मिला a नई मार्केट as a स्वास्थ्य खाना.
Spelt is sometimes माना a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति आम गेहूं ( T. aestivum ), in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
It is a hexaploid गेहूं, जिससे अर्थात् it रै छह sets of chromosomes.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional जासूस निर्मित by लेखक और चिकित्सक सर Arthur Conan Doyle.
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities border on the fantastic, holmes is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके कुटिल लॉजिकल तर्क, उसके क्षमता to अपनाना लगभग कोई भेस, और उसके उपयोग of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases.
Holmes, who first appeared in publication in 1887, थी प्रदर्शित in चार novels और 56 छोटी stories.
The first novel, A Study in Scarlet, appeared in beeton 's क्रिसमस सालाना in 1887 और the दूसरी, the चिह्न of the चार, in lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890.
The character grew tremendously in लोकप्रियता साथ the पहला श्रेणी of छोटी कहानियां in the strand पत्रिका, शुरूआत साथ a कांड in बोहेमिया in 1891 ; further श्रेणी of छोटी कहानियां और दो novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927.
The stories cover a काल इससे around 1880 up to 1914.
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer, dr. जॉन H. वाटसन ; दो हैं narrated by holmes खुद ( `` the blanched सिपाही `` और `` the शेर 's माने `` ) और दो अन्य हैं लिखा in the third person ( `` The Mazarin Stone `` and `` His Last Bow `` ).
In two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria स्कॉट `` ), holmes tells वाटसन the प्रमुख स्टोरी इससे उसके यादें, जबकि वाटसन becomes the narrator of the frame story.
The first and fourth novels, A Study in स्कारलेट और the घाटी of भय, प्रत्येक शामिल a long अंतराल of सर्वज्ञ narration recounting कार्यक्रम unknown to either Holmes or Watson.
The United States House of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is अक्सर referred to as the House.
the अन्य हाउस is the Senate.
The composition and powers of the House हैं स्थापित in आलेख एक of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले बनने विधि ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस और सीनेट re-pass the विधान साथ a two-thirds बहुमत in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, और to elect the u.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत in the चुनावी कॉलेज.
Each U.S. राज्य is represented in the हाउस in proportion to इसके जनसांख्यिकी लकिन is entitled to at least one representative.
The सबसे populous राज्य, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, फिलहाल रै 53 representatives.
The total number of मतदान प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by विधि at 435.
Each प्रतिनिधि serves लिये a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the कक्ष, is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the हाउस, और is इसलिए traditionally the नेता of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the हाउस Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the दक्षिण wing of the United States Capitol.
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based kraft भोजन लिये a क्रमांक of जिलेटिन desserts, सहित फल gels, puddings और no-bake मलाई pies.
The brand 's popularity has led to it होने प्रयुक्त as a जेनेरिक पद लिये जिलेटिन मिठाई आरपार the U.S. and Canada.
Kennywood is an मनोरंजन पार्क स्तिथ in वेस्ट mifflin, पेन्सिलवेनिया, a उपनगरीय of पिट्सबर्ग.
The park पहला खोली in 1898 as a `` ट्राली पार्क '' आकर्षण at the end of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway.
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew mcswigan और यूँ began the kennywood entertainment कम्पनी कि रै remained a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार for over 100 years.
This परंपरागत मनोरंजन पार्क स्टिल रै structures और यात्राएँ डेटिंग वापस to इसके खोलने and the early 1900s.
Along with Rye playland पार्क, it is एक of तभी दो मनोरंजन पार्क listed in the National Register of Historic Places.
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood entertainment कम्पनी, जिससे जबतक दिसम्बर 2007 थी a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families.
Kennywood Entertainment is now संचालित by california-based राजमहल entertainment, a subsidiary of parques reunidos, an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मनोरंजन park company based in Madrid, Spain.
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of candover निवेश, an निवेश fund based in the UK.
A सोशल सुरक्षा कार्ड जारी by the रेलरोड रिटायरमेंट फलक in 1943 to a now deceased person.
In the United States, a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens, permanent निवासियों, और अस्थाई ( working ) निवासियों अंतर्गत खण्ड 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the सोशल सुरक्षा अधिनियम, संहिताबद्ध as.
the क्रमांक is जारी to an व्यक्तिगत by the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रशासन, an independent agency of the United States government.
इसके प्राथमिक purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes.
A Social Security क्रमांक may be प्राप्त by applying on रूप ss-5, `` अनुप्रयोग लिये A Social Security Number Card ''.
Minimalism describes आंदोलनों in विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of आर्ट और डिज़ाइन, विशेषकर विज़ुअल आर्ट और म्यूज़िक, जहाँ the कार्य is नियत आउट to expose the essence or पहचान of a विषय through eliminating all non-essential forms, features or concepts.
Minimalism is any डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल in जिससे the सरलतम और fewest तत्व हैं used to create the maximum effect.
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments in post–World युद्ध ii पश्चिमी आर्ट, सबसे strongly साथ अमरीकी विज़ुअल कला in the 1960s and early 1970s.
Prominent artists associated with this movement include Donald Judd, John mccracken, agnes मार्टिन, डान flavin, रॉबर्ट मॉरिस, ऐनी truitt, और फ़्रैंक Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive पहलुओं of modernism, और is प्रायः interpreted as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध अमूर्त अभिव्यंजनावाद and a bridge to Postminimal art practices.
The terms have expanded to encompass a गति in म्यूज़िक जिससे सुविधाएँ repetition और iteration, as in the रचनाएं of la मोंटे यंग, टेरी रिले, स्टीव reich, Philip Glass, and John Adams.
अल्पतम रचनाएं हैं sometimes ज्ञात as प्रणालियों music.
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything कि is अतिरिक्त or stripped to इसके अनिवार्य.
It has also been used to describe the plays और novels of सैमुएल beckett, the films of रॉबर्ट bresson, the कहानियां of रेमंड carver, और even the automobile designs of Colin Chapman.
The word was first used in अंग्रेज़ी in the जल्दी 20th सदी to describe the mensheviks.
In रसायन और भौतिकी, डाल्टन 's विधि ( भी पुकारा डाल्टन 's विधि of आंशिक pressures ) राज्य that the total pressure exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases.
इस अनुभवजन्य विधि थी observed by जॉन डाल्टन in 1801 and is related to the ideal gas laws.
mathematically, the दबाव of a मिश्रण of गैसों can be पारिभाषित as the संकलन
or
where represent the आंशिक दबाव of प्रत्येक घटक.
It is assumed कि the गैसों do नहीं प्रतिक्रिया with each other
where is the mole fraction of the i-th घटक in the कुल मिश्रण of n components.
The relationship below provides a way to determine the volume आधारित विशेषज्ञता of कोई व्यक्तिगत गैसीय घटक
where is the विशेषज्ञता of the i-th component expressed in ppm.
डाल्टन 's विधि is नहीं exactly followed by real gases.
Those deviations हैं considerably विशाल at high pressures.
In such conditions, the आवाज़ occupied by the अणुओं can become significant compared to the free space between them.
In particular, the short average distances between अणुओं उठाता the तीव्रता of intermolecular शक्तियां between गैस अणुओं पर्याप्त to substantially change the pressure exerted by them.
Neither of those प्रभाव हैं माना by the ideal gas model.
This is a list of the largest संयुक्त राज्य कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों by नामांकन for colleges and universities in the United States.
What this सूची शामिलs:
Colleges and विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य
University systems if the प्रणाली is चलाएं अंतर्गत a सिंगल administration
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट students
Enrollment is गिने by the एकीकृत post-secondary शिक्षा प्रणाली within the U.S. Department of Education.
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the क्रमांक of अद्वितीय विद्यार्थी जो attended the विश्वविद्यालयों during the year.
What इस सूची करता नहीं include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled विद्यार्थी हैं पूरा or भाग समय ( e.g., कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों may have a ऊँची नामांकन, लकिन have सबसे विद्यार्थी नामांकित in only a single class )
लिये अन्य सूचियाँ कि माप विश्वविद्यालयों नामांकन, देखिए the See Also section below.
`` सही गोलाकार '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rapper flo rida, released as the lead single from his second studio album, R.O.O.T.S. ( 2009 ).
The song सुविधाएँ अतिथि vocals इससे Kesha.
It was released to रेडियो on 27 जनवरी 2009 और थी डिजिटली released on 10 फ़रवरी by पो लड़के entertainment and Atlantic Records.
The song lyrically बोलती of flo rida 's जाल बॉल रेफरी enthusiasm, जबकि adapting the कोरस of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook.
According to one of the सोंग 's लेखक, the कोरस refers to मौखिक sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, but in the संयुक्त राज्य, दौरान the चलाएं atop the चार्ट, kesha थी uncredited.
The song received mostly negative समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, जो claimed it थी kitsch and misogynistic.
However, it was a commercial success, reaching the शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट in उन्नीस देशों विश्वव्यापी.
In the United States, it became Flo Rida 's दूसरी number-one सिंगल और broke the रिकार्ड लिये first-week बिक्री जब it थी released to डिजिटल रिटेलर.
The single 's accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो थी निर्देशित by मैल्कम जोन्स और मनोनीत लिये an MTV Video Music Award.
The song has been used in several movies, such as The hangover, the भद्दा सच्चाई और the तेलुगु फिल्म pilla zamindar.
In the movie Pitch पूर्ण, the सोंग is performed by the a cappella group the Treblemakers.
The मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय अदालत प्रणाली ( the judicial branch of the federal government of the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are the Associate justices of the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य.
From 1789 until 1866, the office was ज्ञात as the मुख्य इंसाफ of the परम् Court.
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer in the country, and acts as a chief administrative अधिकारी लिये the संघीय न्यायालयों और as सिर of the न्यायिक सम्मेलन of the संयुक्त राज्य appoints the निदेशक of the प्रशासनिक दफ्तर of the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों.
The Chief इंसाफ भी serves as a प्रवक्ता for the judicial branch.
The मुख्य इंसाफ लीड the कारोबार of the परम् Court.
he presides over मौखिक वितर्क before the court.
जब the अदालत renders an राय, the मुख्य justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the court 's opinion.
the मुख्य इंसाफ भी रै significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings.
In the case of an impeachment of a President of the United States, which has occurred twice, the मुख्य इंसाफ presides over the विचारण in the सीनेट.
In modern tradition, the मुख्य इंसाफ रै the ceremonial ड्यूटी of administering the शपथ of दफ्तर of the अध्यक्ष of the United States.
The first Chief इंसाफ थी जॉन jay.
The 17th और वर्तमान मुख्य इंसाफ is जॉन G. Roberts, Jr.
Caribou near prudhoe खाड़ी, 1973
prudhoe खाड़ी आयल फ़ील्ड is a विशाल आयल फ़ील्ड on Alaska 's North Slope.
It is the largest आयल फ़ील्ड in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और in उत्तर अमेरिका, covering and originally containing approximately of oil.
The राशि of recoverable आयल in the फ़ील्ड is अधिक than दोगुना कि of the next largest field in the United States, the East Texas oil field.
The field is संचालित by bp ; साझेदार हैं exxonmobil और ConocoPhillips Alaska.
Labor unions are legally पहचाना as प्रतिनिधि of मजदूर in अनेक उद्योग in the संयुक्त States.
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages, benefits, and working शर्तें लिये उनके सदस्यता, और on representing उनके सदस्यों in विवादों साथ प्रबन्धन over उल्लंघनों of contract provisions.
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying क्रियाएँ और electioneering at the राज्य और संघीय स्तर.
Most unions in America are aligned with one of two larger छतरियाँ संगठन : the afl-cio निर्मित in 1955, और the बदलें to जीत संघ जिससे विभाजित इससे the afl-cio in 2005.
दोनो एडवोकेट नीतियों और विधान on निमित्त of मजदूर in the United States and Canada, and take an active role in politics.
The AFL-CIO is especially चिंतित साथ वैश्विक व्यापार मुद्दे.
In 2010, the प्रतिशत of मजदूर belonging to a संघ in the संयुक्त राज्य ( or कुल मजदूर संघ `` घनत्व '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in Germany, 27.5 % in Canada, and 70 % in Finland.
Union membership in the निजी सेक्टर रै गिरे अंतर्गत 7 % — levels not seen since 1932.
Unions allege that employer-incited विपक्ष रै contributed to इस मनाही in membership.
The most prominent unions are among पब्लिक सेक्टर कर्मचारी ऐसे as शिक्षक और पुलिस.
सदस्यों of संघ हैं disproportionately पुरानी, पुरूष और निवासियों of the पूर्वोत्तर, the Midwest, and California.
Union workers average 10-30 % higher अदा than non-union in अमेरिका बाद controlling लिये व्यक्तिगत, job, and labor market characteristics.
Although much smaller compared to उनके शिखर सदस्यता in the 1950s, अमरीकी संघ remain a prominent राजनैतिक फ़ैक्टर, दोनो through mobilization of उनके अपना सदस्यताएँ और through coalitions साथ like-minded activist संगठन around मुद्दे ऐसे as immigrant rights, trade policy, health care, and living wage campaigns.
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs, unions are फिलहाल वकालत नई `` कार्ड जाँच `` संघीय विधान कि होता आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to सौदेबाजी साथ a संघ if अधिक than 50 % of मजदूर हस्ताक्षरित forms, or `` cards, '' stating they wish to be represented by that union.
The current procedure involves प्रतीक्षारत 45 to 90 दिनों लिये a federally पर्यवेक्षित secret-ballot कर्मचारी referendum on the subject.
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that, `` Strong unions have helped to reduce असमानता, whereas weaker संघ have बना it easier लिये ceos, sometimes working साथ मार्केट शक्तियां कि वे have helped shape, to increase it. ''
The decline in unionization चूंकि wwii in the संयुक्त राज्य रै महरूम संबद्ध with a pronounced rise in income and wealth inequality.
A ईसाई lacroix फ़ैशन बुटीक
A बुटीक is a छोटी खरीदारी आउटलेट, विशेषकर एक कि specializes in elite and fashionable items such as clothing and jewelry.
The शब्द is फ्रेंच लिये `` दूकान '', via लैटिन from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The term entered into रोज अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग in the लेट 1960s जब, लिये a ब्रैड काल, लंदन थी the centre of the fashion trade.
Carnaby Street और the किंग्स सड़क यहूद the फ़ोकस of much मीडिया ध्यान as घर to the सबसे fashionable boutiques of the era.
Now the East of London has been regenerated and more Boutiques pop up in फैशनेबल क्षेत्रों, ऐसे as मीनार सेतु सड़क.
It can also refer to a specialised कड़ ऐसे as a बुटीक निवेश बैंको or boutique law firm.
The word is often used to describe a property in the independent section of the hotel मार्केट ( ऐसे as the rockwell in लंदन ) in अनुक्रम to फर्क themselves इससे larger जंजीरों ( such as Hilton Hotels ).
In such cases the establishments उद्देश्य to convey the विचार कि the आपरेशन is elite और highly specialised.
In the strictest sense of the word, boutiques होता be one-of-a-kind लकिन अधिक generally बोलना, कुछ जंजीरों can be referred to as boutiques if वे specialize in particular शैलियाँ.
Recently, the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to normally-mass-market वस्तुएं कि हैं either niche or उत्पादित in intentionally छोटी संख्याएँ at बहुत ऊँची कीमतें.
This may be referred to as बुटीक निर्माण.
For example, before the release of the Wii, a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` बुटीक video-game कम्पनी '', producing खेल लिये niche ऑडियंस, rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony.
In the traditional luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International is माना as the precursor in निर्माण और बिक्री of bespoke watches.
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique निर्माण साईट, जिससे allows producing छोटी श्रेणी or भी अद्वितीय timepieces.
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made वस्तुएं और अन्य truly one-of-a-kind वस्तुएं, अन्य बस उपज t-shirts, स्टिकर, and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices.
In the जल्दी 1990s सेलिना प्रारंभ निर्माण उसके own line of women 's clothing.
Opening two boutiques labeled as `` सेलिना इत्यादि. बुटीक & सैलून '' एक स्तिथ in कॉर्पस christi और one located in San Antonio, Texas.
One was due to open in Monterrey, मैक्सिको, in 1995 लकिन due to उसके मौत it थी नहीं opened.
Around 1999 the San Antonio स्थान बंद और the कॉर्पस christi स्थान थी closed in 2009.
In late 1990s some European retail traders developed the विचार of tailoring a दूकान towards a जीवनशैली थीम, in the रूप of `` अवधारणा स्टोर्स '', which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments.
One of the first अवधारणा स्टोर्स थी 10 कोरसो como in मिलान, इटली followed by Colette in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin.
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters, D-A-S-H, and The Gap, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई कड़ी billabong और, हालांकि कम आम, रब & टेलर adapted to the अवधारणा स्टोर ट्रेंड after 2000.
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy संघीय ) is a क्रेडिट संघ headquartered in वियना, वर्जिनिया, चार्टर्ड और regulated अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the नेशनल क्रेडिट संघ प्रशासन ( ncua ) of the U.S. federal government.
Navy Federal is the largest प्राकृतिक सदस्य ( or खुदरा ) क्रेडिट संघ in the संसार, दोनो in एसेट आकार और in सदस्यता.
As of September 2012, Navy Federal था over $ 50 अरब usd in एसेट, और over 4 million members.
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13, 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ), known by उसके स्टेज नाम स्टीवी अचरज, is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, a चाइल्ड prodigy जो विकसित into एक of the सबसे रचनात्मक musical आंकड़े of the late 20th century.
Blind चूंकि shortly बाद जनम, अचरज हस्ताक्षरित साथ motown 's tamla लेबल at the आयु of ग्यारह, और continues to perform and record for Motown to this day.
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` अंधविश्वास ``, `` सर ड्यूक ``, `` तुम हैं the सनशाइन of my जीवन `` and `` I Just Called to Say I Love You ``.
Well known albums also शामिल talking किताब, innervisions और गीतों in the कुंजी of Life.
He has recorded more than thirty u.S. शीर्ष टेन हिट्स और प्राप्त twenty-two ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, the most ever awarded to a male solo artist.
Wonder is also noted for उसके कार्य as an activist लिये राजनैतिक कल्याणकारी, सहित उसके 1980 अभियान to मेक मार्टिन Luther King, Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United States.
In 2009, अचरज थी नामित a संयुक्त राष्ट्र मेसेंजर of Peace.
In 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the us singles चार्ट 's पचासवें वर्षगांठ, with Wonder at number five.
By popular vote, Stevie was inducted into The SoulMusic हॉल of कीर्ति at soulmusic.com in दिसम्बर 2012.
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '', for mind/soul, and -ωσις `` -osis '', for abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind, और is a जेनेरिक मनोरोग पद लिये a दिमागी राज्य प्रायः वर्णित as involving a `` घाटा of contact with reality ``.
People suffering from मनस्ताप हैं वर्णित as psychotic.
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder, दौरान जिससे मति और delusions, सकल उत्तेजना or बेहोशी और impaired insight may occur.
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad और can औसत anything इससे अपेक्षाकृत सामान्य aberrant अनुभवों through to the जटिल और catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder.
moreover a चौड़ी किस्में of सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली रोगों, इससे दोनो बाह्य substances and internal physiologic illness, can produce symptoms of psychosis.
This led many professionals to कह कि मनस्ताप is नहीं विशिष्ट enough as a diagnostic term.
Despite this, `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal बर्ताव ( ऋणात्मक लक्षण ) और अधिक commonly to विविध प्रकार of मति or delusional मान्यताओं ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas एक exhibiting बहुत हल्का लक्षण could be वर्गीकृत in the श्रेणी of an `` attenuated psychotic रिस्क सिंड्रोम ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the धनात्मक लक्षण of मनस्ताप, especially those of schizophrenia.
This is thought to occur through a यांत्रिकी of aberrant salience of environmental stimuli.
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trials of these drugs, however, दिखाएँ either no significant अंतर between ड्रग और placebo, or a बहुत छोटी प्रभाव आकार, suggesting कि the pathophysiology of मनस्ताप is much अधिक complex than an overactive dopamine system.
People experiencing मनस्ताप may प्रदर्शनी कुछ व्यक्तित्व परिवर्तन और विचार disorder.
Depending on its severity, इस may be accompanied by असामान्य or विचित्र बर्ताव, as खूब as परेशानी with social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities.
General grievous is a fictional अक्षर in the Star Wars universe.
A पुनरावर्ती विपक्षी, he is the परम् कमांडर of the confederacy of स्वतंत्र प्रणालियों, a राजनैतिक गुट of planetary systems waging war on the Galactic Republic.
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber कॉम्बैट by गिनती dooku, he is a निष्ठुर और शक्तिशाली योद्धा devoted to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars.
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi देह गिनती होता संकेत the आकाशगंगा to दे उसे the उपनाम the knightslayer.
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the being in the आकाशगंगा दौरान the क्लोन युद्धों जो था मारे the सबसे जेडी in सिंगल कॉम्बैट, he किया नहीं संकोच to flee from battles he knew he would lose.
Statistics play an important role in summarizing बेसबॉल प्रदर्शन और evaluating खिलाड़ी in the खेल.
Since the प्रवाह of a बेसबॉल खेल रै प्राकृतिक ब्रेक to it, और सामान्यतः खिलाड़ी अधिनियम individually rather than performing in clusters, the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics.
Statistics have been kept for professional baseball चूंकि the सृष्टि of the नेशनल लीग और अमरीकी League, now part of Major League Baseball.
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major League Baseball, from लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल संघ of पेशेवर आधार बॉल खिलाड़ी और the नीग्रो लीग.
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute pea pickers in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, centering on फ्लोरेंस ओवेन्स थॉम्पसन, आयु 32, a माँ of सात children, in nipomo, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, March 1936.
USA सालाना रियल जीडीपी इससे 1910–60, साथ the सालो of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the बेरोजगारी रेट in the us 1910–1960, साथ the सालो of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression was a severe worldwide economic depression in the दशक preceding संसार युद्ध II.
The timing of the Great Depression varied across nations, but in most countries it started in 1930 और lasted जबतक the लेट 1930s or मध्य 1940s.
It was the longest, सबसे फैली, और deepest अवसाद of the 20th century.
in the 21st सदी, the ग्रेट अवसाद is commonly used as an example of how far the world 's economy can decline.
The अवसाद originated in the u.S., बाद the पतन in भण्डार कीमतें कि began around सितंबर 4, 1929, and became worldwide news with the stock market crash of October 29, 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ).
The Great अवसाद था विनाशकारी प्रभाव in countries rich and poor.
Personal income, tax revenue, profits और कीमतें dropped, जबकि अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार plunged by अधिक than 50 %.
बेरोजगारी in the u.S. रोज़ to 25 %, और in कुछ countries rose as high as 33 %.
Cities सब around the संसार यहूद hit मुश्किल, विशेषकर those निर्भर on heavy industry.
निर्माण थी वस्तुतः halted in many countries.
Farming and rural areas suffered as क्रॉप कीमतें गिरी by लगभग 60 %.
Facing plummeting माँग साथ few वैकल्पिक स्त्रोत of कार्य, क्षेत्रों निर्भर on प्राथमिक सेक्टर उद्योग such as cash cropping, mining and logging suffered the most.
Some economies प्रारंभ to रिकवर by the mid-1930s.
In many countries, the negative effects of the Great अवसाद lasted जबतक the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध II.
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ), also known as a premature ventricular complex, ventricular premature contraction ( or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ), ventricular असामयिक ताल ( vpb ), or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ), is a अपेक्षाकृत आम इवेंट जहाँ the धड़कन is initiated by purkinje मछली in the ventricles बल्कि than by the sinoatrial नोड, the सामान्य धड़कन initiator.
The electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily विशिष्ट इससे a normal heart beat.
A PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped ताल `` or लगा as palpitations in the छाती.
In a normal heartbeat, the ventricles contract after the atria have helped to भरण उन्हें by contracting ; in इस रास्ता the ventricles can पंप a maximized राशि of रक्त दोनो to the फेफड़े और to the rest of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles अनुबंध पहला और पहले the atria have optimally भर the ventricles with blood, which means that circulation is inefficient.
However, single beat PVC arrhythmias do नहीं प्रायः पोज़ a खतरे और can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William गेरी busey ( born जून 29, 1944 ), बेहतर ज्ञात as गेरी busey, is an American film and stage actor, and artist.
He has appeared in a variety of films, including Lethal Weapon, Point Break, and अंतर्गत घेरा, as खूब as अतिथि दिखावे on gunsmoke, वाकर, टेक्सास रेंजर, विधि & अनुक्रम, और अनुगामी.
He was मनोनीत लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( acta ), is a बहुराष्ट्रीय सन्धि लिये the purpose of establishing अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों लिये बौद्धिक property rights enforcement.
The agreement aims to establish an अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधिक फ्रेमवर्क लिये लक्ष्यीकरण नकली goods, जेनेरिक दवाइयाँ और कापीराइट infringement on the अंतरजाल, और होता बनाएँ a नई शासी देह बाहर मौजूदा forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the World Intellectual Property Organization, or the United Nations.
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by Australia, Canada, जापानी, मोरक्को, नई जीलैंड, सिंगापुर, दक्षिण कोरियाई, और the संयुक्त राज्य.
In 2012, मैक्सिको, the यूरोपीय संघ और 22 देशों जिससे हैं member states of the European Union signed as well.
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally स्वीकृत ) the अनुबंध, जिससे होता आइये into फ़ोर्स in देशों कि ratified it बाद ratification by six countries.
Supporters have described the agreement as a response to `` the बढ़ाएँ in वैश्विक व्यापार of नकली goods और pirated कापीराइट सुरक्षित works ''.
Trades Unions representing workers in the music, film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based organizations ऐसे as the गति चित्र संघ of अमेरिका और फार्मास्युटिकल शोध और निर्माताओं of अमेरिका यहूद क्रियाशील in the सन्धि 's विकास.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों कह the सम्मेलन adversely affects आधारभूत rights including freedom of expression and privacy.
ACTA has also been criticised by डॉक्टर बगैर सीमायें लिये endangering अभिगम to दवाइयाँ in developing countries.
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups, developing देशों और the सामान्य पब्लिक इससे the अनुबंध 's negotiation प्रक्रम और it रै महरूम वर्णित as नीति laundering by आलोचकों सहित the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association.
The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the resignation in protest of the European पार्लियामेंट 's नियुक्त मुख्य अन्वेषक, rapporteur कादर आरिफ, as खूब as फैली विरोध आरपार Europe.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, अंग्रेजों mep दाउद मार्टिन, अनुशंसित विरूद्ध the सन्धि, stating : `` the intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European Parliament rejected the agreement in plenary सत्र, साथ 478 मतदान विरूद्ध the सन्धि, 39 in पक्ष और 165 MEPs abstaining.
faw semi-trailer truck in China
Tractor with पक्ष डम्प ट्रेलर semi-trailer
A ट्रैक्टर साथ an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer ट्रक साथ स्लीपर पीछे the टैक्सी.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated गाडी कि consists of a towing इंजन, ज्ञात as a ट्रैक्टर in the संयुक्त राज्य और ट्रक in many other places, attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight.
It is also known as a transport in Canada, prime mover in Australia, semi, tractor-trailer, truck और ट्रेलर, ट्रांसफ़र ट्रक, 18-wheeler, mack ट्रक, बिग रिग in the संयुक्त राज्य, or artic, छोटी लिये articulated lorry, in Britain and Ireland.
A semi-trailer does not ट्रेल completely पीछे the towing गाडी, लकिन is संलग्न at a पाइंट कि is बस forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit.
This is done so that a fraction of the वज़न of the ट्रेलर is carried by the prime mover.
This arrangement means that both tractor and semi-trailer will have a distinctly अलग डिज़ाइन than a rigid ट्रक और trailer.
The पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स हैं a पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Founded in, the स्टीलर्स हैं the oldest मताधिकार in the AFC.
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl शीर्षक ( छह ), जीती अधिक afc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( आठ ) और निभाई in ( पंद्रह ) और hosted more ( eleven ) conference championship games than any other AFC or NFC team.
The स्टीलर्स share the रिकार्ड लिये सबसे सुपर कटोरी दिखावे with the Dallas Cowboys ( eight ).
The Steelers won उनके सबसे हाल चैंपियनशिप, सुपर कटोरी xliii, on फ़रवरी 1, 2009.
The Steelers were founded as the पिट्सबर्ग pirates on जुलाई 8, 1933, by आर्ट रूनी, लेने इसके असली नाम इससे the बेसबॉल टोली of the same name, as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time.
The ownership of the स्टीलर्स रै remained भीतर the रूनी परिवार since its founding.
The current owner is Art 's बेटे, डान रूनी, जो रै दिए much कंट्रोल of the मताधिकार to उसके son Art Rooney II.
Long one of the NFL 's फ्लैगशिप टीमों, the स्टीलर्स आनंद a विशाल, फैली fanbase nicknamed steeler स्वदेश.
The Steelers currently play their home games at हाइन्ज़ फ़ील्ड on पिट्सबर्ग 's उत्तर पक्ष in the उत्तर shore पड़ोस, जिससे भी होस्ट the विश्वविद्यालयों of Pittsburgh Panthers.
निर्मित in 2001, the स्टेडियम replaced तीन नदियाँ स्टेडियम जिससे hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons.
Prior to Three Rivers, the स्टीलर्स था निभाई उनके खेल in Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field.
Three अलग kinds of गेहूं and rye flour
Flour is a चूर्ण जिससे is बना by पीस खाद्यान्न grains, or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ).
It is the main ingredient of bread, which is a staple food for many संस्कृतियों, बनाना the उपलब्धता of पर्याप्त आपूर्तियाँ of आटा a प्रमुख आर्थिक और राजनैतिक समस्या at विभिन्न टाइम्स throughout history.
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in यूरोपीय, उत्तर अमरीकी, मध्य पूर्वी, भारतीय और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों, और is the defining ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries.
जबकि गेहूं is the सबसे आम आधार लिये आटा, मकई आटा रै महरूम महत्वपूर्ण in mesoamerican भोजन चूंकि प्राचीन times, and remains a staple throughout the Americas.
Rye flour is an important constituent of ब्रैड in much of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय, और राइस can भी be used in flour, though this is relatively uncommon.
Heart rate is the क्रमांक of heartbeats प्रति ईकाई of समय, typically expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ).
दिल रेट can vary as the देह 's need to अवशोषित ऑक्सीजन और excrete कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड changes, such as during physical exercise, sleep, illness, or as a result of ingesting drugs :
सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली stimulants ऐसे as amphetamines increase heart rate.
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the दिल रेट ( अलावा इससे कुछ विशेषकर अजीब ones साथ बराबर अजीब प्रभाव, ऐसे as केटामाइन जिससे can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ).
There are many ways in जिससे the दिल रेट speeds up or slows down.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the दिमाग, अनेक of जिससे हैं those कि हैं 'forced'/'enticed ' आउट by the ingestion and processing of drugs.
Due to individuals having a निरंतर रक्त आवाज़, एक of the physiological तरीके to उद्धार more oxygen to an organ is to increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often.
Normal resting दिल दरों दायरा इससे 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is पारिभाषित as a resting दिल रेट नीचे 60 bpm.
However, heart rates from 50 to 60 bpm हैं आम among स्वस्थ लोगों और do नहीं necessarily require special attention.
Tachycardia is defined as a resting दिल रेट ऊपर 100 bpm, हालांकि persistent बाकी दरों between 80-100 bpm, मुख्यतः if वे हैं उपस्थित दौरान नींद, may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ).
Catherine II 's carved, painted and gilded राजतिलक कोच ( Hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people, usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) और सेडान कुर्सियां हैं excluded, चूंकि वे हैं wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is विशेषकर designed लिये निजी यात्री उपयोग और लिये comfort or elegance, though some are also used to transport goods.
it may be लाइट, smart और तेज़ or भारी, large and comfortable.
Carriages normally have बर्खास्तगी using पत्ता स्रोतों, अंडाकार स्रोतों ( in the 19th सदी ) or चमड़े दीर्घकाय.
A public passenger vehicle would नहीं प्रायः be पुकारा a carriage – शर्तें लिये ऐसे शामिल stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) कार्ट share महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the इतिहास of the carriage, as is the तेज़ ( two-wheeled ) रथ.
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust भूकंप कि occurred at 00:58:53 utc on संडे, 26 दिसम्बर 2004, साथ an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.
The quake itself is known by the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as the sumatra–andaman earthquake.
The resulting सुनामी थी दिए विभिन्न names, सहित the 2004 भारतीय समंदर सुनामी, दक्षिण एशियाई सुनामी, इंडोनेशियाई tsunami, and the Boxing Day tsunami.
The earthquake was caused by subduction and triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of सबसे landmasses bordering the भारतीय समंदर, हत्या over 230,000 लोगों in चौदह देशों, और inundating तटीय समुदायों साथ लहरें up to high.
It was one of the deadliest प्राकृतिक आपदाओं in अंकित history.
इंडोनेशिया थी the hardest-hit देश, followed by श्री Lanka, India, and Thailand.
With a magnitude of Mw 9.1–9.3, it is the third largest भूकंप कभी अंकित on a seismograph.
the भूकंप था the longest अवधि of faulting ever observed, between 8.3 and 10 minutes.
It caused the संपूर्ण ग्रह to हिलना as much as और triggered अन्य भूकंप as far away as Alaska.
Its epicentre थी between simeulue और mainland Indonesia.
The plight of the प्रभावित लोगों और देशों prompted a विश्वव्यापी humanitarian response.
In all, the worldwide community दान अधिक than $ 14 अरब ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid.
Steam उठती इससे the nesjavellir geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न and stored in the Earth.
थर्मल उर्जा is the उर्जा कि determines the temperature of matter.
The Geothermal energy of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the कोर of the ग्रह और इसके सतह, ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The क्रियाशील geothermal originates इससे the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ), अर्थ earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal energy is created by रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000 °f ).
Heat conducts इससे the कोर to surrounding cooler rock.
the ऊँची तापमान और दबाव कारण कुछ चट्टान to melt, बनाना मैग्मा संवहन upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats rock and जल in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since paleolithic टाइम्स और लिये स्पेस हीटिंग चूंकि प्राचीन रोमन टाइम्स, लकिन it is अभी बेहतर ज्ञात लिये विद्युत पीढी.
विश्वव्यापी, परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला हीटिंग, स्पेस हीटिंग, स्पा, औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost प्रभावी, विश्वसनीय, चिरस्थायी, और environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन रै historically महरूम limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological advances have dramatically विस्तारित the दायरा और आकार of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर हीटिंग, खोलने a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal कुएं रिलीज ग्रीनहाउस गैसों फंस गहन भीतर the धरती, लकिन ये emissions हैं much निम्नतर per energy unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a result, geothermal शक्ति रै the संभावित to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
the धरती 's geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
खुदाई और खोजी लिये गहन resources is very expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power निर्भर on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी, उर्जा कीमतें, subsidies, और interest rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that ग्राहक होता be willing to अदा a छोटी अधिक लिये a बेदर्दी उर्जा सोर्स जैसे geothermal.
But as a परिणाम of सरकारी assisted शोध और उद्योग अनुभव, the लागत of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy cost between दो और टेन सेंट प्रति kwh.
The term cubic foot is an Imperial and us प्रथागत ( non- मीट्रिक ) ईकाई of volume, used in the United States and the United Kingdom.
It is defined as the volume of a घन साथ पहलू of एक पैर ( 0.3048 m ) in लंबाई.
To गणना घन फीट गुणा लंबाई X width X height.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation :, Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn Ái Quốc, थी a वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट क्रांतिकारी नेता जो थी प्रधान मंत्री ( 1945–1955 ) और अध्यक्ष ( 1945–1969 ) of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ).
He was a key फिगर in the न्यास of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945, as खूब as the people’s फौज of वियतनाम ( pavn ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War.
He led the việt मिन्ह स्वतंत्रता गति इससे 1941 onward, establishing the कम्युनिस्ट -नियमd लोकतांत्रिक Republic of Vietnam in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ.
He officially stepped down इससे शक्ति in 1955 due to स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं, लकिन remained a अत्यधिक दृश्य figurehead और प्रेरणा for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united, communist Vietnam—until his death.
After the war, साइगॉन, पूंजी of the गणतंत्र of वियतनाम, was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City.
सब सड़कें सीसे घर is a विशेषता फिल्मी released on September 26, 2008.
Directed by Dennis Fallon, it stars Peter Boyle, Patton Oswalt, Jason London, Vivien Cardone, वैनेसा शाखा, पीटर कायोटी, स्टीफन मिल्टन, और allan Kayser.
The movie was फिल्माया in और around कान्सास नगर, मिसौरी.
The movie बना इसके संसार प्रीमियर जनवरी 27 at the सांता बारबरा अंतरराष्ट्रीय Film Festival.
The फिल्मी रै भी recently महरूम in अनेक फिल्मी त्यौहार, and has received bad reviews.
पीटर बॉयल died पहले the movie 's release.
It was the पिछला फिल्म he appeared in.
बिक्री कर in the संयुक्त राज्य हैं कर लगाई on the बिक्री or lease of goods and services in the United States.
While no national general sales tax exists, the federal सरकारी levies अनेक नेशनल चयनात्मक बिक्री कर on the बिक्री or lease of particular goods and services.
Furthermore, forty-five states, the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, और गुआम थोपने सामान्य बिक्री कर कि लागू to the बिक्री or पट्टे of सबसे goods और कुछ सेवाएं, and states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services.
States may also delegate to लोकल सरकारें the प्राधिकार to थोपने अतिरिक्त सामान्य or चयनात्मक बिक्री taxes.
Sales tax is गणना by multiplying the खरीदें दाम by the applicable tax rate.
Tax rates vary widely by क्षेत्राधिकार और दायरा इससे कम than 1 % to over 10 %.
बिक्री कर is एकत्रित by the seller at the time of sale.
Use tax is self assessed by a खरीदार जो रै नहीं सशुल्क बिक्री tax on a taxable purchase.
Unlike the value added कर, a बिक्री कर is imposed तभी एकबार, at the खुदरा level.
However, in cases where वस्तुएं हैं बेची at खुदरा अधिक than एकबार, ऐसे as प्रयुक्त गाड़ियाँ, the बिक्री कर can be चार्ज on the same item indefinitely.
The definition of retail sales and कया goods और सेवाएं हैं taxable vary among the राज्य.
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous categories of goods and सेवाएं कि हैं exempt इससे बिक्री कर, or taxed at घटाया दरों.
the खरीदें of goods लिये further manufacture or लिये पुनर्विक्रय is uniformly exempt from sales tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt खाना बेची in किराना स्टोर्स, नुस्खा medications, and many agricultural supplies.
Sales taxes, including those imposed by लोकल सरकारें, हैं generally administered at the राज्य level.
States imposing sales tax require retail विक्रेता to collect कर इससे ग्राहक, संचिका रिटर्न, और remit the कर to the state.
प्रक्रियात्मक नियम vary widely.
Sellers generally must collect tax from in-state purchasers जबतक the क्रेता provides an exemption certificate.
Most states allow or आवश्यकता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक remittance.
A central processing ईकाई ( cpu ), भी referred to as a सेंट्रल प्रोसेसर ईकाई, is the हार्डवेयर भीतर a कंप्यूटर कि carries आउट the निर्देश of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical, logical, and input/output operations of the system.
The term has been in use in the कंप्यूटर उद्योग at तनिक चूंकि the early 1960s.
The form, design, and implementation of CPUs have बदला over the कोर्स of उनके इतिहास, लकिन उनके आधारभूत operation remains much the same.
A computer can have more than one cpu ; इस is पुकारा multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain अनेक cpu on a सिंगल चिप ; those ics हैं पुकारा multi-core processors.
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ), which performs arithmetic and logical परिचालन, और the कंट्रोल ईकाई ( cu ), जिससे extracts निर्देश इससे मेमोरी और decodes और चलाता उन्हें, कॉलिंग on the alu जब necessary.
Not सब कम्प्यूटेशनल प्रणालियों rely on a central processing unit.
An array प्रोसेसर or वेक्टर प्रोसेसर रै अनेक समानांतर कम्प्यूटिंग elements, with no one unit considered the `` center ''.
In the distributed कम्प्यूटिंग मॉडल, समस्याएं हैं हल by a वितरित interconnected set of processors.
rfid चिप अगला to a अनाज of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र a coded पहचान क्रमांक जब queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in उपभोक्ता उत्पाद, और implanted in पालतु, लिये पहचान उद्देश्य.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा, लिये the उद्देश्य of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically भंडारित information.
Some tags are powered और पढ़ा at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via चुम्बकीय fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a बैटरी, or else have no बैटरी लकिन collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड, और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf रेडियो लहरें ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at सैंकड़ों of मीटर.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be भीतर लकीर of sight of the रीडर, और may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked ऑब्जेक्ट.
RFID tags हैं प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग.
An RFID tag attached to an ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके progress through the assembly line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and pets may have टैग injected, allowing धनात्मक पहचान of the एनिमल.
Since rfid टैग can be संलग्न to कपडे, possessions, or भी implanted भीतर लोगों, the सम्भावना of reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns.
Overtime is the राशि of समय किसी works परे normal working hours.
Normal घंटों may be संकल्पित in अनेक ways:
by custom ( what is माना स्वस्थ or उचित by society ),
by practices of a दिए व्यापार or profession,
by legislation,
by अनुबंध between नियोक्ता और मजदूर or उनके representatives.
Most nations have ओवरटाइम मजदूर कानून designed to dissuade or prevent नियोक्ता इससे forcing उनके कर्मचारी to कार्य excessively long hours.
These laws may take into account other considerations than the humanitarian, ऐसे as preserving the स्वास्थ्य of मजदूर so कि वे may continue to be उत्पादक, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy.
One common approach to regulating overtime is to आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to अदा मजदूर at a उच्चतर hourly रेट लिये ओवरटाइम कार्य.
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if नहीं obliged to do so by विधि, विशेषकर if वे मानना कि वे फेस a पिछड़ा झुकने supply curve of labour.
Overtime pay दरों can कारण मजदूर to कार्य longer घंटों than they would at a flat hourly rate.
Overtime कानून, attitudes toward ओवरटाइम और घंटों of कार्य vary greatly from country to country and between different economic sectors.
Visualization of कड़ी between पृष्ठों on a विक using a force-directed layout.
Force-directed graph आरेखण algorithms हैं a क्लास of algorithms लिये आरेखण रेखाचित्र in an aesthetically pleasing way.
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few क्रासिंग किनारे as संभावित, by assigning शक्तियां among the नियत of किनारे और the नियत of नोड, आधारित on उनके सापेक्ष स्थितियाँ, और तब using ये शक्तियां either to सिमुलेट the गति of the किनारे और नोड or to minimize their energy.
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem, force-directed algorithms, होने शारीरिक simulations, प्रायः आवश्यकता no खास ज्ञान परिचय आलेख सिद्धान्त ऐसे as planarity.
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively पुकारा समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) is the राशि of goods or सेवाएं कि can be purchased with a unit of currency.
For example, if you had taken one dollar to a स्टोर in the 1950s, तुम होता have महरूम समर्थ to ख़रीदे a वृहद क्रमांक of वस्तुएं than तुम होता आज, indicating कि तुम होता have था a वृहद खरीदना शक्ति in the 1950s.
करेंसी can be either a कमोडिटी धन, like gold or silver, or fiat currency, or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars.
as आदम स्मिथ विख्यात, having धन देता एक the क्षमता to `` कमांड '' अन्य ' मजदूर, so खरीदना शक्ति to कुछ extent is power over other people, to the extent that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency.
If one 's monetary आय stays the वही, लकिन the दाम स्तर increases, the purchasing power of that income falls.
Inflation does not सदा imply गिरना खरीदना शक्ति of एक 's धन आय since it may rise faster than the price level.
A higher real income अर्थात् a उच्चतर खरीदना शक्ति चूंकि रियल आय refers to the income adjusted for inflation.
For a price index, its value in the आधार साल is प्रायः सामान्यीकृत to a मान of 100.
The purchasing power of a unit of करेंसी, कह a डालर, in a दिए साल, expressed in डॉलर of the आधार साल, is 100/p, जहाँ p is the दाम अनुक्रमणिका in that year.
So, by definition the purchasing शक्ति of a डालर decreases as the दाम स्तर उदय.
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount c of धन, t सालो into the भविष्य, can be computed साथ the सूत्र for the present value :
where in इस मामला i is an assumed भविष्य annual inflation rate.
Education in South Korea is viewed as being crucial for कामयाबी और प्रतियोगिता is नतीजतन बहुत heated and fierce.
A central administration oversees the process for the education of children from किंडरगार्टन to the तीसरा और फाइनल साल of ऊँची स्कूल.
Mathematics, science, कोरियाई, अंग्रेज़ी, और सोशल अध्ययन हैं generally माना to be the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण subjects.
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised, by the generally अकादमिक elitist दक्षिण कोरियाई populace, as शिक्षा और इसलिए अनेक स्कूलों कमी high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics.
South Korea was the first country in the world to provide high-speed अंतरजाल अभिगम to सब प्राथमिक, जूनियर, और ऊँची स्कूलों.
Although South Korean students often rank highly on international comparative assessments when compared to विद्यार्थी of सबसे पश्चिमी शिक्षा प्रणालियों, the दक्षिण कोरियाई शिक्षा प्रणाली is criticised लिये emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The दक्षिण कोरियाई शिक्षा प्रणाली is बल्कि notably सख्त और overly संरचित as compared to its counterparts in most Western societies.
Also, the prevalence of non-school for-profit निजी संस्थान ऐसे as अकादमियों or cram-schools ( hagwon [ 학원 ] ), जिससे too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in students are criticised as a major social problem.
The My Lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 और 504 निहत्थे नागरिकों in दक्षिण वियतनाम on कूच 16, 1968, by संयुक्त राज्य फौज सैनिको of `` चार्ली '' कम्पनी of 1st बटालियन, 20th infantry रेजीमेंट, 11th Brigade of the Americal Division.
Victims शामिल महिलाओं, मेन, children, और infants.
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later found to be mutilated और अनेक महिलाओं यहूद allegedly raped prior to the killings.
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially charged with criminal offenses for their क्रियाएँ at mỹ lai, तभी दूसरी लेफ्टिनेंट विलियम calley, a प्लाटून नेता in चार्ली कम्पनी, थी convicted.
मिला अपराधी of हत्या 22 ग्रामीणों, he थी originally given a life sentence, but only served three and a half years under house arrest.
The massacre took place in the hamlets of my lai और my khe of बेटे my गाँव.
The इवेंट is भी ज्ञात as the बेटे my नरसंहार, विशेषकर in the Vietnamese state media.
The U.S. सैन्य codeword लिये the `` viet cong stronghold '' थी `` Pinkville ''.
The घटना prompted वैश्विक आक्रोश जब it became पब्लिक knowledge in 1969.
The massacre also increased घरेलू विपक्ष to the u.S. भागीदारी in the Vietnam War.
Three U.S. servicemen जो था आजमाया to halt the नरसंहार और protect the wounded यहूद initially denounced by several U.S. Congressmen as traitors.
They प्राप्त नफ़रत मेल और मौत खतरे और मिला mutilated animals on their doorsteps.
The तीन यहूद बाद widely praised और सजा by the Army for their heroic actions.
The hijackers in the सितंबर 11 हमले यहूद 19 मेन संबद्ध साथ al-qaeda, और 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia.
Others were from मिश्र, लेबनान, और the UAE.
The hijackers यहूद व्यवस्थित into चार टीमों, प्रत्येक led by a pilot-trained hijacker साथ चार `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' जो यहूद प्रशिक्षित to help subdue the pilots, passengers, and crew.
The first hijackers to arrive in the संयुक्त राज्य यहूद खालिद al-mihdhar और nawaf al-hazmi, who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000.
They were followed by तीन hijacker-pilots, मोहम्मद atta, marwan al-shehhi, और ziad jarrah जल्दी in the गर्मियाँ of 2000 to undertake उड़ान प्रशिक्षण in south Florida.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, hani hanjour, arrived in सैन डिएगो in दिसम्बर 2000.
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the वसन्त और जल्दी गर्मियाँ of 2001, बस महीने पहले the सितंबर 11 attacks.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), थी a धार्मिक, राजनैतिक, और सैन्य नेता इससे मक्का जो एकीकृत अरब into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by Muslims और bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर और नबी of God.
Muhammad is almost universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी भेजा by परमेश्वर for mankind.
non-muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an अनछुए असली monotheistic आस्था of आदम, नूह, अब्राहम, मूसा, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was orphaned at an जल्दी आयु और brought up अंतर्गत the परवाह of उसके ताऊ abu तालिब.
He later worked ज़्यादातर as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a गड़रिये, और थी पहला शादीशुदा by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported कि it थी वहीँ, at आयु 40, कि he प्राप्त उसके पहला रहस्योद्घाटन इससे परमेश्वर.
तीन सालो बाद इस इवेंट मुहम्मद प्रारंभ उपदेश ये खुलासे सरेआम, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and that he himself थी a नबी और मेसेंजर of परमेश्वर, in the वही रग as अन्य इस्लामी नबियों.
Muhammad gained few followers जल्दी on, और थी मिले साथ दुश्मनी इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और his followers were treated harshly.
To escape persecution, मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of उसके अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in मक्का migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the शुरूआत of the इस्लामी पंचांग, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the जनजातियों अंतर्गत the संविधान of मदीना.
After eight years of fighting with the meccan जनजातियों, उसके अनुसरणकर्ता, जो by तब था grown to 10,000, took कंट्रोल of मक्का in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट सब of the बाकी pagan मंदिरों in पूर्वी अरब.
In 632, a few महीने बाद returning to मदीना इससे the विदाई यात्राएं, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the समय of उसके मौत, सबसे of the arabian प्रायद्वीप था परिवर्तित to Islam, and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity.
The खुलासे ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the आयतें of the कुरान, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of परमेश्वर '' और around जिससे the धर्म is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's जीवन ( सिरा ) और परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and other नबियों of islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of मुहम्मद in मध्यकालीन christendom और premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest लोगों in the संसार in ordinal रैंक, ऐसे as oldest व्यक्ति or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body that specifically deals in longevity research, ऐसे as the जराविद्या शोध समूह ( grg ) or गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड.
The longest unambiguously प्रलेखित इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met विंसेंट वैन gogh जब वो थी 12 or 13.
This led to news media ध्यान in 1985, बाद calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age, beyond any reasonable सवाल, in the रिकॉर्ड of उसके देशी नगर, arles, फ़्रांस.
अधिक प्रमाण of calment 's जीवनकाल रै महरूम उत्पादित than लिये कोई अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed जीवनकाल लिये पुरूष supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon किमुरा, जो currently lives in Japan and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 दिसम्बर 2012, किमुरा, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest जीना व्यक्ति in the संसार जिनकी आयु can be documented.
He has also been the oldest जीना man चूंकि the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning on 14 अप्रैल 2011.
Since the death of 115-year बूढ़ा koto okubo of जापानी on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest जीना woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
This is a timeline of the african-american सिविल अधिकारों गति.
The Civil अधिकारों गति थी a स्वतंत्रता संघर्ष by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality.
The goals of the गति यहूद स्वतंत्रता इससे पक्षपात, बराबर अवसर in नियुक्ति, शिक्षा और आवास, the सही to vote और equal access to public facilities.
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock म्यूज़िक कि विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s, largely in the संयुक्त किंगडम and in the United States.
With roots in blues rock and साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, the bands कि निर्मित भारी मेटल विकसित a मोटा, विशाल ध्वनि, characterized by highly amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and प्रदर्शन शैलियाँ हैं generally संबद्ध साथ मर्दानगी and machismo.
the पहला भारी मेटल bands ऐसे as led zeppelin, गहन जामुनी और ब्लैक sabbath आकर्षित विशाल ऑडियंस, हालांकि वे यहूद often derided by critics, a status common throughout the history of the genre.
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of इसके ब्लूज़ influence ; motörhead introduced a पंक चट्टान sensibility और an increasing जोर on speed.
Bands in the New Wave of British Heavy मेटल ऐसे as आयरन maiden followed in a समान vein.
Before the समाप्त of the दशक, भारी मेटल प्रशंसक became known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam मेटल became a वाणिज्यिक फ़ोर्स साथ समूह जैसे Mötley Crüe and Poison.
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme, aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the मुख्यधारा साथ bands ऐसे as मेटालिका, मेगाडेथ, slayer, और एंथ्रेक्स, जबकि अन्य शैलियाँ of the सबसे चरम subgenres of मेटल जैसे death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
Since the mid-1990s, popular styles ऐसे as nu मेटल, जिससे प्रायः incorporates तत्व of grunge और हिप हॉप ; और metalcore, जिससे मिश्रणों चरम मेटल साथ हार्डकोर पंक, have further expanded the definition of the genre.
The far-right ( also known as the चरम सही ) refers to the उच्चतम उपाधि of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society, and supports supremacy of certain individuals or समूह deemed to be innately श्रेष्ठ or अस्तबलों जो हैं to be अधिक valued than those deemed to be innately अवर or अवांछनीय.
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is based on what its adherents perceive as स्वाभाविक विशेषताएँ of लोगों कि can नहीं be बदला.
This stands as a point of अंतर साथ the centre-right 's आरोपण of behaviours, ऐसे as आलस्य or decadence, as the primary sources of social inequalities.
the केन्द्र right—unlike the दूर right—claims कि लोगों can समाप्त उनके behavioural inferiority through changing their habits and choices.
The original far right, which emerged in France after the French Revolution, refused to accept the फ्रेंच गणतंत्र और समर्थित a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy.
The far right is commonly संबद्ध साथ व्यक्तियों or समूह जो थाम चरम राष्ट्रवादी, xenophobic, जातिवाद, religious fundamentalist or reactionary views.
The most extreme-right movements have धड़ा दमन और नरसंहार विरूद्ध समूह of लोगों on the आधार of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 दिसम्बर 1679 ), in कुछ पुरानी ग्रन्थ थामस हाब्स of malmsbury, थी an अंग्रेज़ी पारस, बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज for his work on political philosophy.
His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for सबसे of पश्चिमी राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य of सोशल contract theory.
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later distinction between सिविल समाज और the राज्य ) ; the दृश्य कि सब legitimate राजनैतिक शक्ति जरूर be `` प्रतिनिधि '' और आधारित on the सहमति of the लोगों ; और a उदार निर्वचन of विधि जिससे पत्ते लोगों फ़्री to do whatever the विधि करता नहीं explicitly forbid.
He was one of the संस्थापकों of आधुनिक राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र.
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion, obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion, remains influential ; and his account of इंसान प्रकृति as self-interested सहयोग, और of राजनैतिक समुदायों as होने आधारित upon a `` सोशल अनुबंध `` remains एक of the major topics of political philosophy.
In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a विविध सरणी of अन्य फ़ील्ड, सहित इतिहास, भूगोल, the भौतिकी of गैसों, धर्मशास्त्र, आचार, और general philosophy.
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify, assess, और कंट्रोल the भाव of oneself, of others, and of groups.
It can be divided into क्षमता ei और trait EI.
Ability EI is usually measured using अधिकतम प्रदर्शन परीक्षण और रै stronger संबंध साथ परंपरागत प्रज्ञा, whereas trait EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality.
Criticisms have centered on whether ei is a रियल प्रज्ञा और whether it रै वृद्धिशील वैध over IQ and the Big Five personality traits.
Heredity is the passing of traits to औलाद इससे इसके अभिभावक or पूर्वज.
This is the process by which an औलाद कोशिका or सजीव acquires or becomes predisposed to the विशेषताएँ of its parent cell or organism.
Through heredity, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate और कारण कुछ प्रजाति to evolve.
The study of आनुवंशिकता in जीवविज्ञान is पुकारा आनुवंशिकी, जिससे शामिल the field of epigenetics.
For United States individual आय कर, समायोजित सकल आय ( agi ) is कुल सकल आय minus specific reductions.
Taxable income is समायोजित सकल आय ऋण भत्तों लिये निजी छूटों and itemized deductions.
For most individual tax purposes, agi is अधिक प्रासंगिक than सकल income.
Gross income is sales price of goods or प्रॉपर्टी, ऋण लागत of the प्रॉपर्टी बेची, प्लस other income.
It includes wages, ब्याज, dividends, कारोबार आय, rental आय, और सब other types of income.
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a कारोबार or rental कार्यकलाप और 21 अन्य विशिष्ट वस्तुएं.
Several deductions ( e.g. चिकित्सा खर्च और विविध itemized deductions ) हैं सीमित आधारित on a percentage of AGI.
Certain phase outs, including those of lower कर दरों और itemized deductions, हैं आधारित on स्तर of agi.
Many states base state income tax on agi साथ निश्चित deductions.
`` Lazy Eye '' is the तीसरा सिंगल इससे silversun pickups ' डेब्यू एल्बम Carnavas.
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David लेटरमैन, the tonight दिखाएँ साथ jay लीनो, बाद साथ jools Holland, and Last Call with Carson Daly.
the सोंग is a playable track on चट्टान Band 2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour.
An alternate version of the सोंग, साथ a लंबाई of 7:27, थी निभाई on xmu पहले the shorter संस्करण थी played on FM and other XM channels.
This version was featured on their डेमो cd ( जिससे प्रदर्शित जल्दी संस्करण of चार tracks ).
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone क्रमांक ; in the उत्तर अमरीकी क्रमांकन योजना देशों ( देश कोड 1 ), it is the पहला तीन अंक of a seven-digit phone number.
In other देशों दोनो the उपसर्ग और the क्रमांक may have different lengths.
It shows जिससे एक्सचेंज the बाकी संख्याएँ refer to.
A full telephone number is usually made up of country code ( जरूरी लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय काल्स तभी ), क्षेत्रफल कोड ( जरूरी लिये काल्स between टेलीफोन क्षेत्रों ), उपसर्ग, and subscriber number.
Some places सीमित निश्चित prefixes to फैक्स संख्याएँ or कोशिका फोन तभी ; in अन्य स्थान such dedicated prefixes are not used.
As टेलीफोन प्रौद्योगिकी उन्नत, the precise significance of the उपसर्ग became धुंधला in अनेक स्थान ; 485 in लंदन, uk, थी एकबार the gulliver एक्सचेंज, but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of many number blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
Metformin ( BP, सुनाया, ; originally बेची as glucophage ) is an मौखिक antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 मधुमेह, in particular, in overweight और मोटे लोगों और those with normal kidney function.
इसके उपयोग in गर्भकालीन मधुमेह has been limited by safety concerns.
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary सिंड्रोम, और रै महरूम investigated लिये अन्य रोगों जहाँ इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध may be an important factor.
Metformin works by suppressing ग्लूकोज उत्पादन by the liver.
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug that has महरूम conclusively दिखाया to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes.
It helps reduce ldl कोलेस्ट्रॉल और triglyceride स्तर, और is नहीं associated with weight gain.
, metformin is one of only two oral antidiabetics in the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन मॉडल सूची of अनिवार्य दवाइयाँ ( the other being glibenclamide ).
When prescribed appropriately, metformin causes few प्रतिकूल प्रभाव ( the सबसे आम is जठरांत्र परेशान ) और is संबद्ध साथ a कम रिस्क of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a serious चिंता in overdose और जब it is विहित to लोगों साथ contraindications, लकिन वरना, there is no significant risk.
First synthesized and found to reduce blood शुगर in the 1920s, metformin थी forgotten लिये the अगला दो दशकों as शोध shifted to इंसुलिन और अन्य antidiabetic drugs.
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several रिपोर्ट्स कि it could reduce रक्त शुगर स्तर in लोगों, और in 1957, फ्रेंच चिकित्सक जां sterne प्रकाशित the पहला नैदानिक विचारण of metformin as a treatment for diabetes.
it थी introduced to the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1958, Canada in 1972, and the United States in 1995.
Metformin is now believed to be the सबसे widely विहित antidiabetic ड्रग in the संसार ; in the संयुक्त राज्य अलोन, अधिक than 48 लाख prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its generic formulations.
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite face of माउंट rushmore निकट keystone, दक्षिण डकोटा, in the संयुक्त राज्य.
sculpted by danish-american gutzon borglum और उसके बेटे, lincoln borglum, माउंट rushmore सुविधाएँ sculptures of the heads of चार संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रपतियों : George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln.
the संपूर्ण मेमोरियल कवर और is ऊपर sea level.
The tallest पहाड़ in the प्रदेश is Harney Peak ( ).
South Dakota historian Doane Robinson is credited with conceiving the idea of carving the likenesses of प्रसिद्ध लोगों into the ब्लैक पहाड़ियाँ प्रदेश of दक्षिण डकोटा in अनुक्रम to प्रचार पर्यटन in the region.
Robinson 's initial विचार थी to sculpt the needles ; however, gutzon borglum अस्वीकृत the needles site because of the poor quality of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups.
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location, which also has the लाभ of facing southeast लिये अधिकतम सूर्य एक्सपोज़र.
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark, Red बादल और भैंस विधेयक कोड़ी लकिन borglum decided the मूर्तिकला चाहिए have a अधिक नेशनल फ़ोकस, और chose the चार राष्ट्रपतियों जिनकी likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
After securing federal funding, निर्माण on the मेमोरियल began in 1927, और the राष्ट्रपतियों ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939.
Upon Gutzon borglum 's मौत in कूच 1941, उसके बेटे lincoln borglum took over construction.
Although the initial concept called for each president to be चित्रित इससे सिर to कमर, कमी of funding मजबूर निर्माण to end in late October 1941.
The U.S. National Park Service took कंट्रोल of the मेमोरियल in 1933, जबकि it थी स्टिल अंतर्गत निर्माण, और has managed the memorial to the present day.
It attracts nearly तीन लाख लोगों annually.
Charvet dress shirt इससे the 1930s, norsk folkemuseum, Oslo.
A shirt, dress shirt, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up कमीज़ is a परिधान साथ a कॉलर, a full-length खोलने at the सामने इससे the कॉलर to the हेम, and sleeves with cuffs.
Shirts are predominantly प्रयुक्त by मेन, चूंकि women usually wear blouses.
The सामने खोलने is fastened using बटन or studs, और the cuffs close with buttons or cuff links.
शर्ट हैं सामान्यतः बना इससे woven cloth, और हैं प्रायः accompanied by a जैकेट और टाई, लिये example with a suit or formalwear, but shirts are also worn more casually.
In British English, पोशाक कमीज़ अर्थात् specifically the अधिक औपचारिक संध्या परिधान worn साथ black- or white- टाई, भी discussed below.
Some of these formal शर्ट have stiff fronts और detachable छल्लों attached with collar studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which has a collar fastened bas by बटन ) is sometimes प्रयुक्त in गलती to लागू to सब शर्ट ( साथ or बगैर buttoned bas छल्लों ), होने प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries, प्रशासनिक assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In उत्तर अमेरिका, it is मनाये on the बुधवार of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the तीसरा गुरुवार in अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is मनाये on the पहला शुक्रवार in May
धमाकेदार can be:
अक्खड़ धमाकेदार
धमाका भट्टी
चट्टान धमाकेदार
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the classical फ्रेंच बरॉक स्टाइल, हालांकि he खर्च सबसे of उसके working जीवन in Rome.
His work is characterized by स्पष्टता, लॉजिक, और अनुक्रम, and favors line over color.
Until the 20th century he remained a प्रमुख प्रेरणा लिये ऐसे classically उन्मुख कलाकारों as jacques-louis दाउद, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne.
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere, मगर लिये a छोटी काल जब कार्डिनल रिचलू ordered उसे वापस to फ़्रांस to serve as First Painter to the King.
सबसे of उसके works हैं इतिहास paintings of धार्मिक or mythological subjects that very often have a large landscape element.
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1, 1954Stambler, Irwin, and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : The Encyclopedia. - New York : St. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary. - New York : Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music. - New York : Stockton Press - P.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - The Tombstone Tourist : Musicians. - New यॉर्क : जेब किताबे. - p.395. - isbn 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks, जोकर. - `` सिंगर कैथ whitley 's मेमोरी जिंदा through गीतों, प्रेम in घर कस्बा ''. - the केंटकी पोस्ट. - सितंबर 25, 1991.— '' देश म्यूज़िक स्टार कैथ whitley मुर्दे at 33 ''. - lexington herald-leader. - may 10, 1989.——hurst, जोकर. - `` whitley 's पिछला दिनों ''. - शिकागो ट्रिब्यून. - may 14, 1989.— '' दारू मारता देश सिंगर कैथ whitley ''. - संयुक्त दबायें अंतरराष्ट्रीय. - ( c/o the सैन फ्रांसिस्को वृत्तान्त ). - may 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as Keith Whitley, was an American country music singer.
Whitley 's ब्रैड करियर in मुख्यधारा देश म्यूज़िक lasted इससे 1984 जबतक उसके मौत in 1989, but he continues to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters.
he charted 19 singles on the बिलबोर्ड देश चार्ट, सहित पाँच लगातार क्रमांक ones : `` do n't बंद अपना आँखें ``, `` जब तुम कह nothing at सब ``, `` i 'm no अजनबी to the बरसात ``, `` i अचरज Do You Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ).
statute of ग्रैंड duchy of Lithuania, written in Polish
A statute is a औपचारिक लिखा enactment of a विधान प्राधिकार कि governs a state, city, or county.
Typically, statutes command or prohibit कुछ, or घोषित policy.
The word is often प्रयुक्त to फर्क विधि बना by विधान लाशें इससे मामला विधि, decided by courts, and regulations issued by government agencies.
statutes हैं sometimes referred to as विधान or `` black letter law. ''
As a सोर्स of विधि, statutes हैं माना प्राथमिक प्राधिकार ( as opposed to secondary authority ).
Ideally all statutes जरूर be in सामंजस्य साथ the आधारभूत law of the land ( constitutional ).
इस शब्द is प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to the common law.
Statutes acquire their फ़ोर्स इससे the समय of उनके ड्योढ़ी, however जबतक otherwise provided.
statutes हैं of अनेक kinds ; namely, Public or private.
declaratory or remedial.
अस्थाई or perpetual.
A temporary statute is एक जिससे is सीमित in इसके duration at the time of its enactment.
It continues in फ़ोर्स जबतक the समय of इसके limitation रै समाप्त, जबतक sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is एक लिये the फिराकर of जिससे वहीँ is no सीमित समय, हालांकि it may not be expressly declared to be so.
If, however, a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another जिससे is अस्थाई तभी, the former will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter.
Before a statute becomes law in some countries, it must be सहमत upon by the उच्चतम कार्यपालिका in the सरकारी, और आखिरकार प्रकाशित as part of a code.
In many countries, statutes are organized in topical इंतजाम ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर publications पुकारा कोड, ऐसे as the United States Code.
In many राष्ट्र statutory विधि is विशिष्ट इससे और अधीनस्थ to constitutional law.
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries जिससे bifurcate बंद the आम iliac धमनियों अग्रवर्ती to the sacroiliac संयुक्त of the pelvis.
वे proceed अग्रवर्ती और अवर साथ the medial border of the psoas major muscles.
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior और अवर to the वंक्षण स्नायु परिचय एक तीसरा laterally इससे the प्रविष्ट पाइंट of the वंक्षण ligament on the pubic tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries.
The external iliac artery is usually the धमनी प्रयुक्त to संलग्न the renal धमनी to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a kidney transplant.
Steam is a digital distribution, digital rights प्रबन्धन, एकाधिक और संचार मंच विकसित by वाल्व निगम.
It is used to distribute games and सम्बन्धित मीडिया ऑनलाइन, इससे छोटी स्वतंत्र डेवलपर to larger तन्त्र घरों ; in अक्तूबर 2012, वाल्व विस्तारित the सेवा to include non-gaming software.
Steam provides the user with installation and automatic management of तन्त्र आरपार अनेक कंप्यूटर, जातियाँ सुविधाएँ ऐसे as मित्रों सूचियाँ और समूह, बादल छायांकन, और in-game आवाज़ और गपशप functionality.
The software provides a freely available application programming interface, Steamworks, that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of Steam 's functions within their software products, सहित नक़ल सुरक्षा, नेटवर्किंग और matchmaking, in-game उपलब्धियाँ और micro-transactions, और support लिये user-created सामग्री through भाप कार्यशाला.
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft खिड़कियाँ, the क्लाएंट रै विस्तारित to शामिल os x और लिनक्स संस्करण, और क्लाइंट साथ सीमित कार्यक्षमता on the प्लेस्टेशन 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices.
In addition to being a central hub for gaming software, वाल्व रै निर्मित a संस्करण of भाप साथ altered कार्यक्षमता to be प्रयुक्त in स्कूलों for educational software, including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 games available through भाप, और 54 लाख क्रियाशील user accounts.
As of January 2013, भाप रै देखी over 6.6 लाख संयुक्त players.
Steam has an अनुमानित 50–70 % share of the डिजिटल वितरण मार्केट for video games.
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank और लाठी इससे the walschaerts वाल्व गियर of a भाप locomotive.
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an अमरीकी हास्य, कर्ता, singer, film producer, screenwriter and film director.
He is known for his slapstick ह्यूमर in फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, स्टेज और radio.
He was originally युग्म up साथ डीन मार्टिन in 1946, forming the famed कॉमेडी टोली of Martin and Lewis.
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work, वे स्ट्रक्चर in a कामयाब श्रेणी of कॉमेडी films for Paramount Pictures.
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and स्थिति as नेशनल अध्यक्ष लिये the muscular dystrophy संघ ( MDA ).
Lewis has won several awards for lifetime achievements from the अमरीकी कॉमेडी पुरस्कार, लॉस एंजिल्स फिल्मी आलोचकों संघ, और वेनिस फिल्मी पर्व, and he has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
In 2005, he received the राज्यपालों पुरस्कार of the अकादमी of टेलीविज़न कला & sciences फलक of Governors, which is the highest Emmy Award presented.
On February 22, 2009, the अकादमी of गति चित्र कला और sciences awarded लुईस the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award.
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany and eventually flows into the उत्तर समुद्र coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the बारहवीं longest नदी in यूरोपीय, at परिचय, साथ an औसत निर्वहन of अधिक than.
The राइन और the डेन्यूब formed सबसे of the उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of the रोमन साम्राज्य और, चूंकि those दिनों, the Rhine has been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland.
It has also served as a रक्षात्मक विशेषता और रै महरूम the आधार लिये क्षेत्रीय और international borders.
The many castles and प्रागैतिहासिक fortifications साथ the राइन गवाही to its importance as a waterway.
River traffic could be रोका at ये स्थितियाँ, प्रायः लिये the purpose of collecting tolls, by the state that controlled that portion of the river.
Sri ( सिंहली )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री, IAST ; Śrī ), भी transliterated as sree or shri or श्री is a शब्द of संस्कृत उत्पत्ति, प्रयुक्त in the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप as विनम्र रूप of पता equivalent to the English `` Mr. '' in written and spoken language, or as a title of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ).
Design of complex structures like the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन needs in-depth समझना of संरचनात्मक विश्लेषण.
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, construction, and maintenance of the शारीरिक और naturally निर्मित पर्यावरण, सहित works जैसे सड़कें, पुलों, नहरों, dams, और buildings.
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी, और it थी पारिभाषित to फर्क non-military अभियान्त्रिकी इससे सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental अभियान्त्रिकी, भूतकनीकी अभियान्त्रिकी, भूभौतिकी, भूगणित, कंट्रोल अभियान्त्रिकी, संरचनात्मक अभियान्त्रिकी, biomechanics, nanotechnology, परिवहन अभियान्त्रिकी, धरती विज्ञान, वायुमंडलीय sciences, forensic अभियान्त्रिकी, नगरपालिका or शहरी अभियान्त्रिकी, जल resources engineering, materials engineering, coastal engineering, surveying, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the पब्लिक सेक्टर इससे नगरपालिका through to नेशनल सरकारें, और in the निजी सेक्टर इससे व्यक्तिगत homeowners through to international companies.
Katherine dunham in तीव्र revue
कैथरीन dunham in स्टुडियो
कैथरीन dunham in तीव्र पुनर्विलोकन तीव्र Review, Martin Beck Theatre
कैथरीन dunham wearing नृत्य costume
कैथरीन dunham in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22, 1909 – May 21, 2006 ) थी an अमरीकी नर्तकी, कोरियोग्राफर, लेखक, educator, and social activist.
Dunham had one of the most successful dance careers in American and European थिएटर of the 20th सदी, और निर्देशित उसके अपना नृत्य company for many years.
वो रै महरूम पुकारा the `` matriarch और महारानी माँ of black dance ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s, Dunham was प्रसिद्ध throughout यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका और थी widely लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ the वॉशिंगटन Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great ''.
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham नृत्य कम्पनी, the तभी self-supported अमरीकी ब्लैक नृत्य troupe at कि समय, and over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances.
Dunham थी an innovator in african-american आधुनिक नृत्य as खूब as a नेता in the field of dance anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses, commonly पुकारा peat मॉस due to इसके व्यापकता in गीला habitats जहाँ it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
Sphagnum accumulations can स्टोर जल, चूंकि दोनो जीना और मुर्दे पौधे can थाम विशाल quantities of जल अंदर उनके कोशिकाएं ; plants may hold from 16-26 times as much water as their dry weight depending on the species.
The empty cells help retain जल in drier शर्तें.
Hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can धीरे स्प्रेड into drier शर्तें, forming larger peatlands, both raised bogs and blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations then provide आवास लिये a चौड़ी सरणी of peatland पौधे, सहित sedges and ericaceous shrubs, as well as orchids and carnivorous plants.
Sphagnum and the peat formed इससे it do नहीं क्षय readily क्युकी of the phenolic यौगिकों अंतःस्थापित in the moss 's cell walls.
In addition, bogs, like all वेटलैंड्स, develop अवायवीय मृदा शर्तें, जिससे produces धीमा अवायवीय क्षय बल्कि than aerobic microbial action.
Peat moss can also acidify its परिवेश by लेने up cations, ऐसे as कैल्सियम और मैग्नीशियम, और releasing hydrogen ions.
Under the सही शर्तें, peat can accumulate to a depth of many meters.
अलग प्रजाति of sphagnum have अलग सहिष्णुता हद for flooding and pH, so any one peatland may have a number of different Sphagnum species.
Individual peat moss plants consist of a प्रमुख स्टेम, साथ tightly arranged क्लस्टर of शाखा fascicles प्रायः consisting of दो or three spreading branches and two to four hanging branches.
The top of the plant, or capitulum, रै कॉम्पैक्ट क्लस्टर of young branches.
साथ the स्टेम हैं बिखरे पत्ते of विभिन्न आकार, नामित स्टेम पत्ते ; the shape varies according to species.
The पत्ते consist of दो kinds of कोशिकाएं ; छोटी, ग्रीन, जीना कोशिकाएं ( chlorophyllose cells ), and large, clear, structural, dead cells ( hyaline cells ).
the latter have the large water-holding capacity.
The earliest version of the संजाल कार्ड, जारी हस्तचालित बल्कि than through an APTIS machine.
the पहला aptis संस्करण of the Network Card.
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 जबतक खूब into the 1990s, as स्टॉक्स था to be प्रयुक्त up despite the परिचय of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991.
The introduction of the weekday minimum fare condition in 2002 resulted in a नाबालिग बदलें : the रेड `` r '' shows कि इस is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard.
This version is स्टिल in उपयोग as of 2007.
The Network Railcard is a discount कार्ड introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल, upon the सृष्टि of उनके संजाल southeast area around London, England.
The card is intended to encourage leisure travel by rail by offering discounts लिये वयस्कों और accompanying children on a चौड़ी दायरा of off-peak किराए.
The range of discounts available, and the price of the कार्ड, have varied चूंकि कि समय, लकिन the कार्ड रै सदा महरूम मान्य लिये a साल 's असीमित use.
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or रेल नियुक्त सफर एजेंट, by completing an अनुप्रयोग रूप - no फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक पहचान or अन्य दस्तावेज़ीकरण is needed to buy or use the card.
It is one of a number of concessionary किराया योजनाएं उपलब्धियाँ on the अंग्रेजों railway system.
The United Nations ( UN ; French : संगठन देस राष्ट्र unies, onu ) is the संसार 's largest, foremost, और most prominent international organization.
The stated aims of the United Nations include promoting and facilitating सहयोग in अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि, अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा, आर्थिक विकास, सोशल प्रगति, इंसान अधिकारों, सिविल अधिकारों, सिविल लिबर्टीज, राजनैतिक freedoms, democracy, and the achievement of lasting world peace.
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War ii to बदलें the लीग of राष्ट्र, to रोकें युद्धों between देशों, और to provide a मंच for dialogue.
it contains अनेक subsidiary संगठन to carry out its missions.
At its founding, the un था 51 सदस्य राज्य ; as of 2011, there are 193.
From its offices around the world, the UN and its specialized एजेंसियों decide on सत्य और प्रशासनिक मुद्दे in नियमित बैठक आयोजित throughout the year.
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the सुरक्षा परिषद ( लिये deciding निश्चित रिज़ॉल्यूशन लिये सलाम और सुरक्षा ) ; the आर्थिक और सोशल परिषद ( लिये assisting in promoting अंतरराष्ट्रीय आर्थिक और सोशल सहयोग और विकास ) ; the सचिवालय ( लिये providing अध्ययन, सूचना, और सुविधाएं needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary judicial organ ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ).
Other prominent un प्रणाली एजेंसियों शामिल the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ), the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office of secretary-general जिससे रै महरूम आयोजित by बैन ki-moon of दक्षिण Korea since 2007.
The संयुक्त राष्ट्र मुख्यालय resides in अंतरराष्ट्रीय territory in नई यॉर्क नगर, साथ further main offices at Geneva, Nairobi, and Vienna.
The organization is financed from assessed और voluntary योगदान इससे इसके सदस्य राज्य, और रै छह आधिकारिक भाषाएं : Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.
South Beach, also nicknamed SoBe, is a neighborhood in the city of Miami बीच, फ्लोरिडा, संयुक्त राज्य, स्तिथ due ईस्ट of मियामी नगर उचित between biscayne खाड़ी और the अटलांटिक Ocean.
The क्षेत्रफल encompasses सब of the अवरोध आइलैंड्स of Miami Beach south of Indian Creek.
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed, starting in the 1910s, धन्यवाद to the विकास प्रयत्न of कार्ल G. फिशर, the lummus भाइयो, और जॉन S. कॉलिन्स, the latter जिनकी निर्माण of the कॉलिन्स सेतु provided the पहला vital जमीन link between mainland Miami and the beaches.
The area has gone through numerous artificial and प्राकृतिक परिवर्तन over the सालो, सहित a booming क्षेत्रीय अर्थव्यवस्था, increased tourism, and the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
As of 2010, परिचय 39,186 निवासियों सजीव in South Beach.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 8, 1960.
The Republican Party मनोनीत लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी मनोनीत John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election बाद सेवारत the अधिकतम दो शर्तें अनुमत by the twenty-second amendment.
Kennedy was निर्वाचित साथ a सीसे of 112,827 मत, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving उसे a विजय of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first चुनाव in जिससे सब पचास of the वर्तमान संयुक्त राज्य participated.
a क्रमांक of कारकों बताइये क्यों the election was so close.
Kennedy gained since वहीँ थी an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन, और he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत निक्सन gained among protestants.
कैनेडी 's campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's जोर on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी वज़न, और he wasted उर्जा by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy प्रयुक्त उसके विशाल, well-funded अभियान संगठन to जीत the नामांकन, सुरक्षित समर्थन, और, साथ the सहायता of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on कार्यशील mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण और used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. इतिहास कि दो बैठे u.s. सीनेटरों ( कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष और vice-president, a घटना कि रै महरूम दोहराया once, by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
A poster for a c. 1884 अमरीकी उत्पादन of मैकबेथ, अभिनीत थामस W. keene.
Depicted, counter clockwise इससे top-left, हैं : मैकबेथ और banquo मिलें the witches ; बस बाद the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth.
Macbeth is a play लिखा by विलियम शेक्सपियर.
It is considered एक of उसके darkest और सबसे शक्तिशाली tragedies.
नियत in स्कॉटलैंड, the खेल dramatizes the corroding मनोवैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक प्रभाव उत्पादित जब its protagonist, the Scottish lord Macbeth, chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power.
He commits regicide to become king and then furthers his moral descent with a reign of murderous आतंक to रहो in शक्ति, आखिरकार plunging the देश into सिविल युद्ध.
In the समाप्त, he loses सबकुछ कि देता अर्थ और purpose to उसके life before losing his life itself.
The play is believed to have been लिखा between 1603 और 1607, और is सबसे commonly दिनाँक 1606.
The earliest account of a प्रदर्शन of कया थी संभवतः शेक्सपियर 's खेल is अप्रैल 1611, जब साइमन forman अंकित seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre.
It was first published in the folio of 1623, संभवतः from a prompt book.
It was most likely written during the reign of James i, जो था महरूम जेम्स vi of स्कॉटलैंड पहले he succeeded to the अंग्रेज़ी सिंहासन in 1603.
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company, and of all the plays Shakespeare लिखा दौरान james’s शासनकाल, मैकबेथ सबसे clearly reflects the playwright’s संबंध साथ the sovereign.
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy, और tells the स्टोरी of a वीर स्कॉटिश सामान्य नामित मैकबेथ जो receives a prophecy इससे a तिकड़ी of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland.
Consumed by महत्वाकांक्षा और spurred to कार्रवाई by उसके बीवी, मैकबेथ हत्याएं किंग डंकन और takes the throne for himself.
His शासनकाल is racked साथ guilt और paranoia, और he जल्द becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and महिला मैकबेथ into realms of arrogance, दीवानगी, और death.
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the खाता of किंग मैकबेथ of स्कॉटलैंड, macduff, और डंकन in holinshed 's क्रॉनिकल्स ( 1587 ), a इतिहास of इंग्लैण्ड, स्कॉटलैंड और आयरलैंड परिचित to शेक्सपियर और उसके contemporaries, although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the backstage world of थिएटर, कुछ मानना कि the खेल is शापित, और होगा नहीं जिक्र इसके शीर्षक aloud, referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play ``.
Over the course of many centuries, the खेल रै आकर्षित कुछ of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध अभिनेताओं to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.
It has been adapted to film, टेलीविज़न, ओपेरा, novels, कॉमिक किताबे, and other media.
The Milton Hershey School is a private परोपकारी ( pre-k through 12 ) बोर्डिंग स्कूल in hershey, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Originally named the Hershey Industrial स्कूल, the संस्था थी संस्थापित और वित्तपोषित by चॉकलेट उद्योगपति मिल्टन snavely hershey और उसके बीवी, कैथरीन Sweeney Hershey.
The school was originally established for impoverished, स्वस्थ, caucasian, पुरूष अनाथ, जबकि आज it serves विद्यार्थी of विभिन्न पृष्ठभूमि.
The मिल्टन hershey स्कूल विश्वास, जिससे निधि the स्कूल, owns controlling ब्याज in the hershey कम्पनी और owns the hershey entertainment and Resorts Company ( HERCO ) which oversees many of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark.
With over six billion dollars in assets, the Milton hershey स्कूल is एक of the wealthiest स्कूलों in the संसार.
The school is overseen by a फलक of Managers.
The school फिलहाल serves 1,818 विद्यार्थी, और योजनाएँ to grow to 2,100 विद्यार्थी by 2013.
A member of CORE : Coalition for आवासीय शिक्षा, it is the largest आवासीय शिक्षा program in the US.
Epub may refer to:
EPUB, a फ़्री और खोलें e-book मानक
Electronic आलेख, आलेख in scholarly जर्नल्स or मैगज़ीन कि can be पहुँचा via इलेक्ट्रॉनिक transmission
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक ड्रग Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग और वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated.
The Act also परोसा as the नेशनल implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be शामिल in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
Second-language acquisition or second-language सीखना is the प्रक्रम by जिससे लोगों सीख a second language.
Second-language acquisition ( often abbreviated to sla ) भी refers to the वैज्ञानिक अनुशासन devoted to studying that process.
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a व्यक्ति 's पहला भाषा ; हालांकि the अवधारणा is नामित second-language अधिग्रहण, it can भी चरितार्थ the learning of third, fourth, or subsequent languages.
second-language अधिग्रहण refers to कया learners do ; it does not refer to practices in language teaching.
The academic discipline of second-language अधिग्रहण is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics.
It is broad-based and relatively new.
As well as the various branches of भाषाविज्ञान, second-language अधिग्रहण is भी closely सम्बन्धित to मनोविज्ञान, cognitive psychology, and education.
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself, the terms second-language अधिग्रहण शोध, second-language अध्ययन, और second-language अधिग्रहण अध्ययन are also used.
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary field, और क्युकी of इस it is मुश्किल to पहचानो a precise starting date.
However, it करता appear to have विकसित a ग्रेट सौदे चूंकि the mid-1960s.
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize the अवचेतन प्रकृति of the सीखना प्रक्रम, लकिन in हाल सालो सीखना और acquisition have become largely synonymous.
Second-language acquisition can incorporate विरासत भाषा सीखना, लकिन it करता नहीं usually incorporate bilingualism.
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as होने the समाप्त परिणाम of सीखना a भाषा, नहीं the प्रक्रम itself, और देखिए the पद as referring to native-like fluency.
Writers in fields such as शिक्षा और मनोविज्ञान, however, प्रायः उपयोग bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism.
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language ; rather, the learning of second भाषाएं और the सीखना of विदेशी भाषाएं involve the वही आधारभूत प्रक्रियाओं in अलग हालातs..
There has been much बहस परिचय exactly कैसा भाषा is सीखे, और अनेक issues are still unresolved.
There are many theories of second-language acquisition, but none हैं स्वीकृत as a पूरा स्पष्टीकरण by सब sla शोधकर्ताओं.
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field of second-language अधिग्रहण, इस is नहीं अपेक्षित to happen in the foreseeable future.
फोर्ब्स सूची of अरबपतियों is an सालाना रैंकिंग of the संसार 's wealthiest लोगों, compiled और प्रकाशित by Forbes, an American national business magazine.
the कुल जाल लायक of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत on the सूची is estimated, in United States dollars, based on their assets and accounting for debt.
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a सिंगल दिन, due to रोज़ fluctuations among एक्सचेंज दरों और भण्डार valuations.
The संयुक्त राज्य रहस्य सेवा is a u.S. संघीय विधि प्रवर्तन agency that is part of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
the sworn सदस्यों हैं विभाजित among the खास एजेंटों and the Uniformed Division.
Until March 1, 2003, the सेवा थी भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the Treasury.
The U.S. रहस्य सेवा रै दो पृथक areas of responsibility:
Financial Crimes, covering missions such as prevention and छानबीन of counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी और u.S. राजकोष प्रतिभूति, and investigation of major fraud.
Protection, which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders और उनके परिवारों, ऐसे as the अध्यक्ष, पास्ट राष्ट्रपतियों, वाइस राष्ट्रपतियों, अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार, visiting heads of राज्य, और विदेशी embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ), etc. )
The रहस्य सेवा 's आरंभिक जिम्मेदारी थी to investigate counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी, which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War.
The agency तब विकसित into the संयुक्त राज्य ' पहला घरेलू प्रज्ञा और counterintelligence agency.
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ), ब्यूरो of दारू, तम्बाकू, firearms और विस्फोटक ( atf ), आव्रजन और कस्टम प्रवर्तन ( बर्फ ), और आतंरिक Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` Me and Bobby McGee '' is a सोंग लिखा by क्रिस kristofferson और फ्रेड फोस्टर, originally performed by Roger Miller.
Others performed the song later, including Kristofferson himself, and Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after उसके मौत, बनाना the सोंग the दूसरी posthumous number-one सिंगल in u.S. चार्ट इतिहास बाद `` ( sittin ' on ) the डॉक of the खाड़ी `` by Otis Redding.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; जनवरी 30, 1882 – अप्रैल 12, 1945 ), भी ज्ञात by उसके आद्याक्षर, fdr, थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और the तभी अमरीकी अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित to अधिक than दो शर्तें, he निर्मित a नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932, as उसके घरेलू policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं यहाँ again `` as उसके अभियान थीम, fdr पराजित incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a नवीकरण of the नेशनल spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph स्टालिन in अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार युद्ध ii, और restoring समृद्धि to the स्वदेश 's economy.
In his first hundred days in दफ्तर, जिससे began कूच 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख विधान और जारी a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the नई सौदे —a किस्में of कार्यक्रम designed to उपज राहत ( सरकारी कार्य for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937, लकिन तब relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan रूढ़िवादी गठबन्धन कि formed in 1937 prevented उसके पैकिंग the परम् अदालत or गुजर कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended परिचय 1975–85, मगर लिये the विनियमन of वॉल गली by the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग, which still exists.
साथ साथ अनेक छोटी कार्यक्रम, प्रमुख surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which was created in 1933, and Social Security, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese आक्रमण of चीन और the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी, fdr दिया दमदार राजनयिक और वित्तीय support to China and Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal थी to मेक अमेरिका the `` आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र `` जिससे होता सप्लाई munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, रूज़वेल्ट, साथ congressional स्वीकृति, provided lend-lease सहायता to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany बाद the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` तिथि जिससे will live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the u.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to support the अलाइड युद्ध प्रयत्न.
As an active military leader, रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on दो fronts कि ended in the शिकस्त of the अक्ष शक्तियां और the विकास of the world 's first atom bomb.
in 1942 रूज़वेल्ट ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers, और 16 लाख मेन और 300,000 महिलाओं यहूद drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American राजनैतिक झाँकी नहीं तभी दौरान the बारह सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन भी लिये दशकों afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता कि निर्मित the पांचवां Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor संघ, बिग नगर मशीने, श्वेत ethnics, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी और rural white Southerners.
He also बहकावे the बाद सृष्टि of the United Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, साथ साथ अब्राहम lincoln और जार्ज वॉशिंगटन.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt पारिभाषित उसके वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a छोटी left of center. ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, मारा, और ms-13 ) is a transnational दण्ड गिरोह कि originated in लॉस एंजिल्स और रै स्प्रेड to अन्य parts of the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America.
The majority of the gang is ethnically रचित of सेंट्रल अमेरिकी और क्रियाशील in शहरी और suburban areas.
In the U.S., the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the वॉशिंगटन, d.C. महानगर क्षेत्रों of फेयरफैक्स काउंटी, वर्जिनिया, मोंटगोमरी काउंटी, मेरीलैंड, और प्रिंस जार्ज 's काउंटी, मेरीलैंड ; long द्वीप, नई यॉर्क ; the बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स क्षेत्रफल ; शेर्लोट, उत्तर कैरोलिना ; और ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास.
There is also a presence of ms-13 in टोरंटो, ओंटारियो, कनाडा.
Members of MS distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the देह और भी प्रायः the फेस, as खूब as the उपयोग of उनके अपना चिह्न भाषा.
They are notorious for उनके उपयोग of हिंसा और a subcultural moral कोड कि predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions.
This क्रूरता of the विशिष्ट सदस्यों of the `` maras '' or `` mareros '' अर्जित उन्हें a पाथ to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the United States border.
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and आव्रजन और कस्टम प्रवर्तन, जो have initiated wide-scale छापे विरूद्ध ज्ञात और suspected गिरोह सदस्यों – netting सैंकड़ों of रखवाले आरपार the देश.
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on the फॉक्स संजाल in the United States on September 13, 2005.
The show is based on forensic मानवशास्त्र और forensic पुरातत्व, साथ प्रत्येक एपीसोड focusing on an एफबीआई मामला संचिका concerning the रहस्य पीछे इंसान remains brought by एफबीआई खास एजेंट seeley बूथ ( दाउद boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ).
The rest of the main cast शामिल michaela conlin, T. J. thyne, eric millegan, tamara टेलर, Jonathan Adams, and John Francis Daley.
Created by Hart Hanson, the श्रेणी is बहुत loosely आधारित on the जीवन और कृतियाँ of उपन्यासकार और forensic anthropologist कैथी reichs, जो भी produces the show.
Its शीर्षक अक्षर, temperance ब्रेनन, is named after the protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel series.
Conversely, Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based around a fictional ( in the हड्डियों ब्रह्मांड ) forensic anthropologist नामित कैथी reichs.
Bones is a joint production by Josephson entertainment, दूर फ़ील्ड प्रोडक्शन्स और 20th सदी फॉक्स टेलीविज़न.
The series has completed airing its आठवीं ऋतु और रै महरूम नवीनीकृत लिये a नवीं ऋतु.
Super Bowl XXV was an American football खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन भैंस बिल्स और the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियन New York Giants to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season.
The Giants defeated the Bills by the score of 20–19, जीतना उनके दूसरी कभी Super Bowl.
It is the तभी सुपर कटोरी decided by one point.
The game was held at tampa स्टेडियम in tampa, फ्लोरिडा, on जनवरी 27, 1991, during the height of the Gulf War.
it थी यूँ निभाई अंतर्गत much patriotic fervor.
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The star-spangled ध्वज `` by व्हिटनी ह्यूस्टन दौरान the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making उनके पहला सुपर कटोरी रूप बाद finishing the नियमित ऋतु साथ a 13-3 रिकार्ड, और अग्रणी the लीग in total points scored with 428.
In advancing to उनके दूसरी सुपर कटोरी, the दिग्गज भी posted a 13-3 नियमित ऋतु record, but with a ball-control offense and a defense that allowed a league low 211 points.
The game is best remembered for Bills placekicker स्कॉट नॉर्वुड 's last-second फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य attempt जिससे गई चौड़ी सही of the uprights, अग्रणी to a दिग्गज विजय, and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills.
The Giants set a Super Bowl रिकार्ड पकड़कर कब्ज़ा of the बॉल for 40 minutes and 33 seconds.
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, और बना a 75-yard touchdown ड्राइव कि खपत a सुपर कटोरी record 9:29 off the clock.
Giants कार्यशील वापस ottis एंडरसन, जो carried the बॉल 21 टाइम्स लिये 102 गज and one touchdown, was named Super Bowl MVP.
He was the first awardee to receive the newly named `` Pete Rozelle ट्रॉफी '' ( नामित लिये the पूर्व कमिश्नर ).
Anderson भी अंकित एक रिसेप्शन लिये सात yards.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born मैल्कम छोटी और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), थी an african-american Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of अश्वेतों, a man जो indicted श्वेत अमेरिका in the harshest शर्तें लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध ब्लैक Americans.
Detractors अभियुक्त उसे of उपदेश जातिवाद, ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता, and violence.
He has been called one of the महानतम और सबसे influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it थी rumored—when he थी यंग, और at तनिक एक of उसके uncles थी lynched.
When he was 13, his माँ थी लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल, और he थी लगाई in a श्रेणी of foster homes.
in 1946, at आयु 20, he गई to prison for breaking and entering.
In prison, मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952, he जल्दी rose to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, मैल्कम x थी the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह, लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in अफ़्रीकी और the मध्य ईस्ट, he लौटे to the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ he संस्थापित मुस्लिम मस्जिदे, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of islam, he थी assassinated by तीन सदस्यों of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed मान्यताओं बदला substantially over समय.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in कंट्रास्ट to the सिविल अधिकारों गति 's जोर on संयोजन.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ साथ it, `` i किया अनेक बाते as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ, he जारी to emphasize pan-africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
The third season of 90210, an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, premiered on सोमवार सितंबर 13, 2010.
The CW officially नवीनीकृत the दिखाएँ लिये a तीसरा ऋतु on फ़रवरी 16, 2010.
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule, they घोषित उनके निर्णय to मूव 90210 to सोमवार नाइट्स at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to गपशप Girl.
It premiered on September 13, 2010 और थी मिले साथ generally धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ from critics.
The season picks up at the समाप्त of गर्मियाँ और focuses on the students senior year of high school.
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame, a new relationship between चांदी और navid और a उलझन टेडी जो decides to खुलासा to उसके परिवार और friends he is gay.
It भी सौदे साथ the aftermath of Naomi Clark 's assault.
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes, ट्रिस्टन wilds, annalynne mccord, रयान eggold, जेसिका stroup, माइकल steger, जेसिका lowndes, Matt Lanter, Gillian Zinser, Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin.
Rebecca sinclair जारी उसके भूमिका as कार्यपालिका निर्माता for the season.
The season premiered to 1.96 लाख दर्शक और a 0.9 दरजा in the adults 18–49 demographic.
christmas-themed एपीसोड `` अवकाश दीवानगी '', hit ऋतु highs in सब कुंजी demos साथ 2.1 in the cw 's निशाना डेमो of महिलाओं 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
It was also the most देखी एपीसोड in over a साल साथ 2.2 लाख viewers tuning in.
The ऋतु finale aired on May 16, 2011.
The season averaged 1.75 million live दर्शक और a 0.9 वयस्कों 18–49 दरजा.
It was released on DVD in the United राज्य on अगस्त 30, 2011.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य, ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms, और उनके territories और dependencies, और सिर of the 54-member राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र.
She is परम् राज्यपाल of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड और, in कुछ of उसके realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and महारानी regnant of सात स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the क्रमांक of उसके realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता और कुछ realms became republics.
at उपस्थित, in जोड to the पहला चार aforementioned देशों, एलिज़ाबेथ is महारानी of जमैका, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया रै reigned longer at over 63 years.
एलिज़ाबेथ थी born in लंदन and educated privately at home.
Her पिता acceded to the सिंहासन as जार्ज vi in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai एडवर्ड VIII, from which time she was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake पब्लिक कर्तव्य दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, in जिससे वो परोसा in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married प्रिंस फिलिप, ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग, साथ जिसको वो रै चार children : चार्ल्स, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.
Her राजतिलक सेवा took प्लेस in 1953 and was the first to be televised.
The Queen 's अनेक ऐतिहासिक विज़िट और बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional परिवर्तन in उसके realms, ऐसे as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम और the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have शामिल the births और विवाह of उसके children, the births of उसके grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major कार्यक्रम in the महारानी 's शासनकाल have शामिल the परेशानियों in उत्तरी आयरलैंड, the falklands War, wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of प्रिंस फिलिप 's ताऊ, रब माउंटबेटन, the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of उसके पूर्व daughter-in-law, डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and रिपब्लिकन sentiments, लकिन support लिये the साम्राज्य और उसके निजी popularity remain high.
The 2010 United States Senate election in Florida took place on नवम्बर 2, 2010 साथ साथ अन्य चुनावों to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट in अन्य राज्य as खूब as सब चुनावों to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections.
Republican Marco Rubio, former Speaker of the Florida House of प्रतिनिधि, पराजित स्वतंत्र चार्ली crist और डेमोक्रेट kendrick नम्र in a three-way race.
एक पद सीनेटर mel मार्टिनेज थी निर्वाचित in a बहुत बंद race against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote.
Martinez announced on December 2, 2008 कि he होता नहीं तलाश re-election to the सीनेट, and would resign prior to the end of his term.
In August 2009, Governor Charlie Crist announced that he would नियुक्त उसके पूर्व मुख्य of स्टाफ, जार्ज lemieux, a रिपब्लिकन, to the सीनेट सीट being vacated by Martinez.
Governor Crist सरेआम घोषित he थी कार्यशील लिये the seat in mid-2009.
At the time he received many Republican endorsements, such as the National रिपब्लिकन senatorial कमेटी, मार्टिनेज, और the 2008 रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय nominee जॉन McCain.
His support of the अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 ठेस उसके लोकप्रियता among conservatives, and candidate Marco Rubio surged.
In April 2010 Crist announced he would drop out of the रिपब्लिकन प्राथमिक और चलाएं as an स्वतंत्र.
The National Republican senatorial कमेटी withdrew इसके समर्थन of crist और मांगे a refund of its campaign funds that it provided for the Crist campaign.
कांग्रेसी kendrick नम्र थी the पहला डेमोक्रेट to declare his intention to run.
Alexander snitker थी the पहला सदस्य of the libertarian पार्टी on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history.
उपग्रह दृश्य of दोहा
Doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the राज्य of क़तर.
स्तिथ on the coast of the पारसी Gulf,
it had a जनसांख्यिकी of 998,651 in 2008, और is भी एक of the municipalities of Qatar.
Doha is Qatar 's largest नगर, साथ over 60 % of the स्वदेश 's जनसांख्यिकी residing in दोहा or इसके surrounding suburbs, and is also the economic centre of the country.
Doha also serves as the seat of सरकारी of क़तर, जिससे is शासित by शेख़ हमद बिन खलीफा al Thani.
Doha is home to the शिक्षा नगर, an क्षेत्रफल devoted to शोध और education.
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level बैठक of the दोहा विकास Round of World Trade Organization negotiations.
The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian खेल, जिससे थी the largest एशियाई खेल कभी आयोजित.
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan अरब खेल और सबसे of the खेल at the 2011 afc एशियाई Cup.
Doha hosted the UNFCCC जलवायु negotiations ( cop 18 ) दिसम्बर 2012 और होगा मेजबान a विशाल क्रमांक of the venues लिये the 2022 फीफा World Cup.
the संसार पेट्रोलियम परिषद आयोजित the 20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011.
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity ( ऊर्ध्वहनु साइनस ), ऊपर the आँखें ( frontal साइनस ), between the आँखें ( ethmoid साइनस ), और पीछे the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ).
The साइनस हैं नामित लिये the फेशियल हड्डियों in जिससे they are located.
Lean manufacturing, lean enterprise, or lean production, often simply, `` Lean, '' is a production practice that considers the expenditure of resources for कोई लक्ष्य अन्य than the सृष्टि of मान लिये the समाप्त ग्राहक to be अपव्यय, and thus a target for elimination.
Working from the perspective of the customer जो consumes a उत्पाद or सेवा, `` मान '' is पारिभाषित as कोई कार्रवाई or प्रक्रम कि a ग्राहक होता be willing to pay for.
Essentially, lean is centered on preserving मान साथ कम कार्य.
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System ( tps ) ( hence the पद toyotism is भी प्रचलित ) और पहचाना as `` झुकना '' तभी in the 1990s.
TPS is renowned for its focus on कटौती of the असली टोयोटा सात wastes to improve overall ग्राहक value, but there are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved.
The steady growth of टोयोटा, इससे a छोटी कम्पनी to the संसार 's largest automaker, रै केन्द्रित ध्यान on कैसा it रै हासिल इस success.
icarly लोगो
iCarly is an American sitcom that airs on निकलोडियन, जिससे premiered on सितंबर 8, 2007.
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far ऐसे as `` ido '', `` ihire an idiot '', `` ipity the nevel '', `` idate sam & फ्रेडी '', इत्यादि. as specials, despite उनके होने regular episodes.
प्रत्येक एपीसोड शीर्षक begins साथ a निम्नतर मामला i which represents the internet, as in `` iCarly ''.
The show was nominated for an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया children 's कार्यक्रम in 2009.
The series starring मिरांडा cosgrove as कार्ली शे, a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star.
the श्रेणी ended on नवम्बर 23, 2012 with the one-hour special episode `` iGoodbye ''.
A total of 7 seasons और 109 एपीसोड यहूद ब्रॉडकास्ट.
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 लाख दर्शक, साथ the खास एपीसोड `` isaved अपना जीवन '' premiered in January 2010.
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) और उसके sassy बेहतरीन dost sam ( jennette mccurdy ) अधिनियम मजेदार at a स्कूल हुनर दिखाएँ ऑडिशन, tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without telling them.
After देखकर the लड़कियों ' दमदार रसायन और banter, the online audience clamors for more and the iCarly webcast is born.
While grappling साथ ठेठ मुद्दे of किशोरावस्था, कार्ली, sam, और फ्रेडी ढूँढें आउट कि वे have भी become ऑनलाइन celebrities as their show – which features talent contests, recipes, problem-solving, and random dancing – garners international accolades.
Carly lives in Seattle, Washington with her 26-year-old bhai और संरक्षक स्पेंसर ( जेरी trainor ) और produces the दिखाएँ in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment.
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned, लकिन उनके पिता, स्टीवन शे ( दाउद chisum ), is a u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी temporarily stationed on a पनडुब्बी, और is प्रायः उल्लेखित लकिन is तभी देखी in व्यक्ति during the series finale episode, `` iGoodbye ''.
Westlife were an Irish boy band जिससे formed in 1998 और disbanded in 2012.
originally हस्ताक्षरित by साइमन cowell और प्रबंधित by लुई वाल्श, the समूह 's फाइनल line-up consisted of nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily and Shane Filan.
Brian McFadden was a member इससे 1998 जबतक उसके प्रस्थान in 2004.
Westlife sold over 50 million records विश्वव्यापी, a कुल कि शामिल स्टुडियो एल्बम, singles, वीडियो रिलीज, और compilation albums.
the समूह संचित 14 number-one singles in the संयुक्त किंगडम ( the third-highest in UK history ), tying with Cliff Richard and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley.
They हासिल a कुल of 26 शीर्ष टेन singles over उनके 14-year career.
By 2010, Westlife was listed in the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड, as the uk 's top-selling एल्बम समूह of the 21st century.
They also won The रिकार्ड of the साल ( the तभी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार आधारित on पब्लिक मत in the uk ) a record-breaking चार टाइम्स और in 2012, the Official Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history.
Despite their European and Asian success, Westlife never प्रबंधित to ब्रेक into the u.S. मार्केट, achieving तभी एक hit सिंगल in 2000 : `` Swear It Again ``.
In October 2011, westlife घोषित उनके इरादे to विभाजित in 2012, following उनके महानतम Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest Hits album.
The boyband 's final concerts were आयोजित on 22 और 23 जून 2012 at croke पार्क स्टेडियम in डबलिन.
The first farewell concert, offering 85,000 टिकटें, बेची आउट in a record-breaking 5 मिनट्स और the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide.
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons, which include retinol, retinal, retinoic एसिड और अनेक provitamin a carotenoids among जिससे beta-carotene is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण.
विटामिन a रै अनेक कृत्यों, it is महत्वपूर्ण लिये विकास और विकास, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, जिससे combines साथ प्रोटीन opsin to रूप rhodopsin the light-absorbing अणु, कि is जरुरी लिये दोनो low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision.
विटामिन a भी कृत्यों in a बहुत अलग भूमिका as an irreversibly oxidized रूप of रेटिनॉल ज्ञात as retinoic एसिड, जिससे is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial and other cells.
In foods of animal origin, the major form of vitamin A is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, जिससे is परिवर्तित to रेटिनॉल ( chemically an दारू ) in the छोटी आंत.
The retinol form कृत्यों as a भंडार रूप of the विटामिन, और can be परिवर्तित to and from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal.
The associated acid ( retinoic एसिड ), a metabolite कि can be irreversibly synthesized इससे विटामिन a, रै तभी आंशिक विटामिन A activity, and does not function in the retina for the visual cycle.
retinoic एसिड is प्रयुक्त लिये विकास और cellular differentiation.
All forms of विटामिन a have a beta-ionone रिंग to जिससे an isoprenoid कड़ी is attached, called a retinyl group.
Both structural features are अनिवार्य लिये विटामिन कार्यकलाप.
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as दो कनेक्ट retinyl समूह, जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त in the देह to योगदान to vitamin A levels.
alpha-carotene और gamma-carotene भी have a सिंगल retinyl group, which give them some vitamin activity.
none of the अन्य carotenes have vitamin activity.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone समूह और रै विटामिन कार्यकलाप in इंसानो.
Vitamin A can be मिला in दो प्रिंसिपल फ़ॉर्म in foods :
Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when खाने एनिमल खाना स्त्रोत, is a पीला, fat-soluble पदार्थ.
चूंकि the pure दारू रूप is अस्थिर, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially उत्पादित और administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ), लकिन no अन्य carotenoids, फलन as provitamin a in herbivores और सर्वाहारी पशु, जिससे possess the एंजाइम ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) जिससे cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa और converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, and pure carnivores ऐसे as बिल्लियों और ferrets कमी 15-15'-dioxygenase और can नहीं बदलें कोई carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for these species ).
Selena मारी गोमेज़ ( born जुलाई 22, 1992 ) is an American singer and actress.
She made her debut as a child अभिनेत्री in बार्नी & मित्रों.
In 2007, गोमेज़ आए to prominence as a अभिनीत डाल सदस्य in the television series Wizards of Waverly Place.
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year, and became the संस्थापक और सीसे सिंगर of the पॉप बैंड सेलिना Gomez & the Scene.
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ), A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ), and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) और have शाखित platinum-certified singles `` naturally ``, `` जो says ``, और `` प्रेम तुम जैसे a प्रेम सोंग ``.
After the release of television films and their accompanying soundtracks, गोमेज़ बना उसके नाट्य फिल्मी डेब्यू in ramona और beezus in 2010 और starred in Monte Carlo in 2011.
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly प्लेस और the अंतराल of सेलिना गोमेज़ & the झाँकी in 2012, वो केन्द्रित on उसके फिल्मी करियर, सेवारत as a आवाज़ अभिनेत्री in होटल transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year.
Her debut solo एल्बम is tentatively अनुसूचित to be released in गर्मियाँ 2013, और is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It ``.
Outside of her work in the entertainment उद्योग, गोमेज़ is शामिल in परोपकारी क्रियाएँ through दान कार्य और विभिन्न social and environmental causes.
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an अमरीकी r & b और पॉप singer-songwriter, अभिनेत्री, और model.
Sacramento is the capital city of the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट of सरकारी of sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the अमरीकी नदी in the उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive सेंट्रल घाटी.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the 35th largest नगर in the संयुक्त States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic बीच of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल सात काउंटी साथ an अनुमानित 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया बाद the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, और the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by Time पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's सबसे ethnically और racially एकीकृत नगर in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the स्विस अप्रवासी जॉन sutter, sr., उसके बेटे जॉन sutter, jr., और James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew जल्दी धन्यवाद to the सुरक्षा of sutter 's फोर्ट, जिससे was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट, a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच, और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State विश्वविद्यालयों, sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento राज्य or सैक State, is the largest local university.
It is एक of the twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य University system.
Drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in Downtown, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is स्तिथ in the ओक पार्क neighborhood.
In addition, the University of California, Davis is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस, वेस्ट of the पूंजी.
The UC Davis Medical बीच, a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल, is located in the city of Sacramento.
Memorial Day is a United States federal holiday जिससे occurs प्रत्येक साल on the फाइनल सोमवार of May.
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the मेन और महिलाओं जो died जबकि सेवारत in the संयुक्त States Armed Forces.
Formerly known as Decoration Day, it originated after the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध to commemorate the संघ और confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War.
By the 20th सदी मेमोरियल दिन था महरूम विस्तारित to सम्मान सब Americans who have died in all wars.
It typically marks the start of the गर्मियाँ अवकाश ऋतु, जबकि मजदूर दिन marks its end.
Many people visit cemeteries and memorials, विशेषकर to सम्मान those जो have died in सैन्य सेवा.
अनेक स्वयंसेवक प्लेस an अमरीकी ध्वज on each grave in national cemeteries.
By the early 20th सदी, मेमोरियल दिन थी an अवसर लिये अधिक सामान्य expressions of मेमोरी, as लोगों visited the क़ब्रों of उनके मृतक रिश्तेदारों in church cemeteries, whether they had served in the military or not.
It भी became a long वीकेंड increasingly devoted to खरीदारी, परिवार महफिलों, आतिशबाजी, यात्राएँ to the बीच, and national media events.
सालाना सजावट दिनों लिये particular कब्रिस्तान हैं आयोजित on a संडे in लेट वसन्त or जल्दी गर्मियाँ in कुछ rural areas of the American South, notably in the mountains.
In cases involving a family graveyard जहाँ रिमोट पूर्वजो as खूब as those जो यहूद मृतक अधिक recently हैं दफ्न, इस may लो on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles.
People gather on the designated दिन और put पुष्प on क़ब्रों और नवीनीकृत सम्पर्क with kinfolk and others.
There often is a धार्मिक सेवा और a `` डिनर on the मैदान, '' the परंपरागत पद लिये a potluck भोजन in जिससे लोगों प्रयुक्त to स्प्रेड the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass.
It is believed that this practice began पहले the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और यूँ may प्रतिबिंबित the रियल उत्पत्ति of the `` मेमोरियल day '' idea.
Memorial Day is not to be confused साथ दिग्गजों दिन ; मेमोरियल दिन is a दिन of remembering the मेन और महिलाओं जो died जबकि सेवारत, जबकि दिग्गजों दिन celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans, living or dead.
Mt. Zion Church state इतिहास मार्कर निकट फिलाडेल्फिया, Mississippi.
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) थी a अभियान in the संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ in जून 1964 to attempt to पंजीकरण as अनेक African American voters as possible in Mississippi, which had historically excluded most blacks from voting.
The प्रोजेक्ट भी नियत up दर्जनों of स्वतंत्रता स्कूलों, स्वतंत्रता घरों, और जातियाँ centers in छोटी towns throughout Mississippi to aid the local black population.
The प्रोजेक्ट थी व्यवस्थित by the परिषद of federated संगठन ( cofo ), a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the four major civil rights organizations ( SNCC, CORE, NAACP and SCLC ).
सबसे of the impetus, नेतृत्व, और financing लिये the गर्मियाँ Project came from the SNCC.
Robert Parris मूसा, sncc फ़ील्ड सचिव और co-director of cofo, directed the summer project.
Blues is the name given to both a musical रूप और a म्यूज़िक विधा कि originated in समुदायों of primarily the `` गहन दक्षिण `` of the संयुक्त राज्य around the समाप्त of the 19th सदी इससे spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads.
The blues form, ubiquitous in jazz, rhythm and ब्लूज़, और चट्टान और फेंकें is characterized by विशिष्ट कॉर्ड progressions, of जिससे the twelve-bar ब्लूज़ कॉर्ड progression is the सबसे common.
The blue notes that, for expressive purposes are sung or निभाई flattened or धीरे झुकी ( नाबालिग 3rd to प्रमुख 3rd ) in संबंध to the पिच of the प्रमुख स्केल, हैं भी an important part of the sound.
The blues genre is based on the blues form but possesses अन्य विशेषताएँ ऐसे as विशिष्ट lyrics, bass lines, and instruments.
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from देश to शहरी ब्लूज़ कि यहूद अधिक or कम लोकप्रिय दौरान अलग अवधि of the 20th century.
Best known are the डेल्टा, piedmont, जम्प, और शिकागो ब्लूज़ styles.
संसार युद्ध ii चिह्नित the परिवर्तन इससे ध्वनिक to इलेक्ट्रिक ब्लूज़ और the प्रगतिशील खोलने of ब्लूज़ म्यूज़िक to a wider दर्शक, especially white listeners.
In the 1960s and 1970s, a संकर रूप पुकारा blues-rock evolved.
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` ब्लू शैतानों '', अर्थ वेदना और उदासी ; an जल्दी उपयोग of the पद in इस भाव is मिला in जार्ज colman 's one-act तमाशा Blue Devils ( 1798 ).
Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be पुरानी, it रै महरूम attested to चूंकि 1912, जब हार्ट wand 's `` डलास ब्लूज़ `` became the पहला स्वत्वाधिकार ब्लूज़ composition.
In गीत the phrase is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to describe a depressed mood.
A quarter dollar, commonly shortened to क्वार्टर, is a सिक्का लायक 1⁄4 of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर or 25 cents.
The क्वार्टर रै महरूम उत्पादित since 1796.
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ which is more common in other भाग of the संसार, originated साथ the अभ्यास of dividing स्पेनी milled डॉलर into आठ कील तराशा खण्ड ( cf. `` टुकड़े of eight `` ).
At one time `` two bits ``, i.e. two wedges, प्रत्येक कील an आठवीं, यूँ a क्वार्टर of the स्पेनी real, was a common nickname for a quarter.
Day of the Dead ( ) is a मैक्सिकन अवकाश मनाये throughout मैक्सिको और around the world in other cultures.
the अवकाश focuses on महफिलों of परिवार और मित्रों to दुवा लिये और remember friends and family members who have died.
It is particularly celebrated in मैक्सिको, जहाँ it is a नेशनल अवकाश, और all banks are closed.
The जश्न takes प्लेस on नवम्बर 1 और 2, in कनेक्शन साथ the कैथोलिक छुट्टियाँ of सब संतो ' Day and All Souls ' Day.
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the मृतक using शुगर skulls, marigolds, और the पसंदीदा भोजन और पेय of the रजि और visiting graves with these as gifts.
They also छोड़ possessions of the मृतक.
Scholars trace the origins of the आधुनिक मैक्सिकन अवकाश to स्वदेशी observances डेटिंग वापस सैंकड़ों of सालो और to an एज़टेक पर्व dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
the अवकाश रै स्प्रेड throughout the संसार : in ब्राज़ील, dia de finados is a पब्लिक अवकाश that many Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches.
In Spain, there are festivals and parades, and, at the end of the दिन, लोगों एकत्रित at कब्रिस्तान और दुवा लिये उनके मुर्दे loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe, and similarly themed जश्न appear in अनेक एशियाई और अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों.
अनीता mk viii.
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were शुभारम्भ simultaneously in लेट 1961 as the संसार 's पहला all- इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डेस्कटॉप calculators.
Designed और निर्मित by the घंटी पंच co.
in Britain, and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer division, वे प्रयुक्त वैक्यूम tubes और cold-cathode switching tubes in उनके लॉजिक circuits और nixie tubes for their numerical displays.
They were the पहला of a श्रेणी of डेस्कटॉप और hand-held इलेक्ट्रॉनिक calculators कि the कम्पनी थी to develop and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s.
George Washington ( –, 1799 ) was the first President of the United राज्य ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध, और एक of the founding fathers of the United States.
He presided over the सम्मेलन कि drafted the संविधान, जिससे replaced the आलेख of कनफेडरेशन और स्थापित the position of President.
Washington was elected President as the सर्वसम्मत चुनाव of the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788, और he परोसा दो शर्तें in office.
He oversaw the सृष्टि of a दमदार, well-financed नेशनल सरकारी कि कायम neutrality in the wars raging in Europe, suppressed rebellion, and won acceptance among Americans of all types.
His leadership style established many forms and संस्कार of सरकारी कि have महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि, ऐसे as using a कैबिनेट system and delivering an inaugural address.
Further, the शांतिपूर्ण परिवर्तन इससे उसके प्रेसिडेंसी to the प्रेसिडेंसी of जॉन एडम्स स्थापित a परंपरा that continues into the 21st century.
Washington was hailed as `` पिता of उसके देश `` भी दौरान उसके आजीवन.
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of Colonial वर्जिनिया ; उसके धनवान planter परिवार स्वामित्व तम्बाकू बागानों and slaves.
After both his father and older brother died when he थी यंग, वॉशिंगटन became personally और professionally संलग्न to the शक्तिशाली विलियम फेयरफैक्स, who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier.
वॉशिंगटन जल्दी became a वरिष्ठ अधिकारी in the colonial forces during the first stages of the French and Indian War.
Chosen by the दूसरी महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, Washington managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776, but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City.
After crossing the Delaware River in the dead of winter, he पराजित the अंग्रेजों in दो लड़ाइयों, retook नई Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause.
Because of his strategy, Revolutionary forces captured two प्रमुख अंग्रेजों सेना at साराटोगा in 1777 और yorktown in 1781.
Historians laud Washington लिये उसके चयन और पर्यवेक्षण of उसके सेनापतियों, प्रोत्साहन of मनोबल और क्षमता to थाम साथ the फौज, समन्वय साथ the राज्य राज्यपालों and state militia units, relations with Congress and attention to supplies, logistics, and training.
In battle, however, Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by अंग्रेजों सेनापतियों साथ larger सेना.
After victory had been finalized in 1783, Washington resigned as Commander-in-chief बल्कि than seize शक्ति, proving उसके विपक्ष to तानाशाही और उसके प्रतिबद्धता to अमरीकी republicanism.
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation, in 1787 वॉशिंगटन presided over the संवैधानिक सम्मेलन कि drafted the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
Elected unanimously as the first अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य in 1789, he attempted to लाओ प्रतिद्वंद्वी गिरोहों साथ to unify the nation.
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to pay off all state and national कर्ज़, to implement an प्रभावी कर प्रणाली और to बनाएँ a नेशनल बैंको ( despite विपक्ष इससे थामस Jefferson ).
Washington proclaimed the United राज्य न्यूट्रल in the युद्धों raging in यूरोपीय बाद 1793.
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the jay सन्धि in 1795, despite तीव्र विपक्ष इससे the jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the federalist पार्टी, he समर्थित इसके कार्यक्रम.
वॉशिंगटन 's विदाई पता थी an influential प्राइमर on रिपब्लिकन पुण्य और a चेतावनी विरूद्ध partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign wars.
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and returned to his घर, माउंट vernon, और उसके घरेलू जीवन जहाँ he प्रबंधित a variety of enterprises.
He freed सब उसके स्लेव by his final will.
Washington had a vision of a great and शक्तिशाली स्वदेश कि होता be निर्मित on रिपब्लिकन लाइनों using federal power.
He sought to use the national government to बचाना स्वतंत्रता, improve अवसंरचना, खोलें the पश्चिमी lands, प्रचार कॉमर्स, मिला a permanent capital, reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism.
At his death, Washington was eulogized as `` first in war, first in सलाम, और पहला in the दिल of उसके देशवासियों '' by हेनरी Lee.
The federalists बना उसे the प्रतीक of उनके पार्टी लकिन लिये अनेक सालो, the jeffersonians जारी to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument.
As the leader of the first successful revolution against a औपनिवेशिक साम्राज्य in संसार इतिहास, वॉशिंगटन became an अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतीक लिये मुक्ति और राष्ट्रवाद, विशेषकर in फ़्रांस and Latin America.
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S. Federal बिता – नकदी or बजट आधार.
Fiscal साल 2012 u.S. संघीय रसीदें.
the बजट of the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी प्रायः begins as the अध्यक्ष 's proposal to the U.S. Congress which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1.
However, Congress is the body required by विधि to pass a बजट annually और to submit the बजट passed by दोनो घरों to the President for signature.
Congressional निर्णय हैं governed by नियम और विधान regarding the federal budget process.
Budget committees set spending limits for the House and Senate committees and for Appropriations subcommittees, which then स्वीकृति व्यक्तिगत appropriations बिल्स to allocate funding to विभिन्न संघीय कार्यक्रम.
If कॉंग्रेस fails to pass an सालाना बजट ( as रै महरूम the मामला चूंकि 2009 ), a श्रेणी of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures.
After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the अध्यक्ष, जो may चिह्न it into विधि, or may वीटो it ( as he होता a बजट जब passed by the Congress ).
A vetoed विधेयक is भेजा वापस to कॉंग्रेस, जिससे can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority in each chamber.
Congress may also combine all or कुछ appropriations बिल्स into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
In addition, the president may request and the Congress may pass supplemental appropriations बिल्स or आपात supplemental appropriations बिल्स.
Several सरकारी एजेंसियों provide बजट आंकड़ा और analysis.
These शामिल the सरकारी जवाबदेही दफ्तर ( gao ), congressional बजट दफ्तर, the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) and the U.S. Treasury Department.
These agencies have reported कि the संघीय सरकारी is facing a series of important financing challenges.
In the short-run, tax revenues have अस्वीकृत significantly due to a कठोर मंदी और कर नीति choices, while expenditures have expanded for wars, unemployment insurance and other safety net spending.
In the long-run, expenditures सम्बन्धित to healthcare कार्यक्रम ऐसे as medicare और medicaid हैं प्रक्षिप्त to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures.
New Guinea ( also, Tok Pisin : Niugini, डच : nieuw गिनी, और ; historically : पापुआ ) is the संसार 's दूसरी largest द्वीप, बाद ग्रीनलैंड, covering a land area of 786,000 km2.
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean, it lies geographically to the ईस्ट of the मलय द्वीपसमूह, साथ जिससे it is sometimes शामिल as भाग of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago.
geologically it is a भाग of the वही tectonic थाली as Australia.
When world sea levels were low, the two shared shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 मीटर नीचे समुद्र स्तर ), combining साथ lands अभी inundated into the tectonic महाद्वीप of Sahul, also known as Greater Australia.
The two landmasses became separated when the क्षेत्रफल अभी ज्ञात as the टोरेस जलसन्धि flooded बाद the समाप्त of the last glacial period.
anthropologically, नई गिनी is माना part of Melanesia.
Politically, the पश्चिमी हाफ of the द्वीप comprises दो इंडोनेशियाई provinces : Papua and West Papua.
The eastern half forms the मेनलैंड of the देश of पापुआ नई गिनी.
The island has a population of about 7.5 million, साथ a बहुत कम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व of तभी 8 inh/km2.
New गिनी is differentiated इससे इसके drier, खुशामद, और कम fertile दक्षिणी बंटवारा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, by इसके much उच्चतर वर्षा और इसके क्रियाशील volcanic geology, with its highest point, Puncak Jaya, reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal fauna, with marsupials, सहित wallabies और possums, और the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
Other than bats और कुछ दो दर्जन स्वदेशी कृंतक genera, वहीँ हैं no pre-human स्वदेशी placental mammals.
Pigs, several अतिरिक्त प्रजाति of चूहे, और the पूर्वज of the नई गिनी गायन श्वान यहूद introduced with human colonization.
The human presence on the द्वीप तिथियाँ वापस at तनिक 40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out of Africa.
Research indicates that the highlands were an जल्दी और स्वतंत्र बीच of कृषि, साथ प्रमाण of सिंचाई going back at least 10,000 years.
Because of the समय गहराई of इसके inhabitation और इसके अत्यधिक fractured लैंडस्केप, an unusually ऊँची क्रमांक of भाषाएं हैं बोला on the द्वीप, साथ कुछ 1,000 languages ( a figure higher than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects.
Most are classified as पापुआई भाषाएं, a generally स्वीकृत भौगोलिक पद जिससे a minority of authors hold to be a genetic one.
A क्रमांक of ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई भाषाएं हैं बोला on the coast and on offshore islands.
In the 16th century स्पेनी explorers खोजा the द्वीप और पुकारा it Nueva Guinea.
in हाल इतिहास पश्चिमी नई गिनी थी included in the Dutch East Indies colony.
The Germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the island as German New गिनी in उनके pre–world युद्ध i प्रयत्न to स्थापित themselves as a औपनिवेशिक शक्ति, whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain.
Following the Treaty of Versailles, the German portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already शासी the अंग्रेजों अर्जी, नामित the territory of पापुआ ) as a League of Nations mandate.
The eastern half of the द्वीप थी granted स्वतंत्रता इससे ऑस्ट्रेलिया as Papua New Guinea in 1975.
the पश्चिमी हाफ gained स्वतंत्रता इससे the डच in 1961, but became part of Indonesia soon afterwards in controversial circumstances.
`` The वैन buren लड़कों '' is the 148th एपीसोड of the sitcom seinfeld, and name of a fictional New York street gang.
Their sign is crossing the हैंड्स, साथ एक हाथ साथ सब the उंगलियाँ 'up ' and spread out.
The other hand has all but the अंगूठा और सूचक उंगली up, लिये a कुल of आठ ( 8 ).
The gang is named for the 8th President of the संयुक्त राज्य, मार्टिन वैन buren ( जो थी the पहला अध्यक्ष इससे नई York ).
This was the 14th एपीसोड लिये the 8th season.
it aired on फ़रवरी 6, 1997.
bevo चिह्न
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt पेय, or निकट बियर, brewed in the संयुक्त राज्य by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century.
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the time of prohibition, when beer, वाइन और आसुत liquors, यहूद बना illegal लिये तेरह सालो.
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing bevo जब alcoholic पेय यहूद निषिद्ध in 1916 by the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद forces.
उत्पादन रोज़ greatly साथ नेशनल निषेध in 1919, और bevo थी by दूर the सबसे लोकप्रिय of the many `` cereal beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time.
At the peak of its लोकप्रियता in the जल्दी 1920s, अधिक than पाँच लाख मामले of Bevo were sold annually.
Renard with a mug of bevo, चित्रित in टेरा cotta on the आंतरिक दीवारें of the bevo भवन, St. Louis
Labels on the bottles billed it as `` bevo the पेय ''.
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` पेय '' और the स्लावी भाषा शब्द लिये बियर `` pivo '', और थी सुनाया `` Bee-vo ''.
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` renard the फॉक्स `` ( आधारित on the समर्थक of a मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच folk-tale ), और promotional मग साथ this character were manufactured.
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied cars in its St. Louis shops पुकारा the `` bevo नौकाएँ '' जिससे यहूद प्रयुक्त लिये प्रमोशन.
Seven are believed to have been built on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis जबकि एक surviving उदाहरण थी आधारित upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8.
बिलबोर्ड विज्ञापन bevo in Trenton, New Jersey, 1917
A contemporary विज्ञापन पढ़ा `` कूलिंग और invigorating, Bevo the Beverage.
Order by the मामला इससे अपना पंसारी, druggist, or dealer. ''
The पेपर लेबल on the वापस of the बोतल पढ़ा `` the all-year-round Soft Drink.
appetizing - healthful - पौष्टिक - Refreshing.
Milk or जल may contain bacteria.
BEVO never करता. ''
Bevo became part of the popular culture of the समय, और is उल्लेखित in विभिन्न लोकप्रिय गीतों और Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to द्वितीयक कठबोली उपयोग of the शब्द ; लिये उदाहरण, in अमरीकी सैन्य कठबोली a यंग और अनुभवहीन officer was called a `` Bevo ''.
The University of Texas named its mascot `` bevo '', a नाम जिससे रै stuck to इस दिन.
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink, `` तुम ca n't रहो up on bevo '', in उसके 1917 फौज revue, यिप यिप Yaphank.
In the late 1920s smuggled बूटलेग बियर और liquor as खूब as `` homebrew ``, काटें into bevo 's marketshare.
With बिक्री flattening to 100,000 मामले by 1929, Anheuser-Busch stopped production.
the bevo मिल, st. लुई, in 2008
The Bevo building, with the Renard character prominently displayed at the किनारे, स्टिल operates as a bottling सुविधा at उनके प्रमुख ब्रेवरी in st. लुई, मिसौरी.
The landmark Bevo Mill, constructed by अगस्त anheuser बुच, sr. in 1917.
It was closed in 2009, but it reopened in अक्तूबर 2009 अंतर्गत new owners.
Bevo is also mentioned in the छोटी स्टोरी `` the हत्यारे `` by अर्नेस्ट हेमिंगवे ; as खूब as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis.
Mylanta is an over the काउंटर दवा प्रयुक्त लिये the उपचार of एसिड reflux, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ).
foremilk और hindmilk samples of human breast milk
a कांच of pasteurized गाय milk
Milk is a white liquid उत्पादित by the mammary ग्रंथियों of mammals.
It is the प्राथमिक सोर्स of पोषण for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food.
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the माँ 's antibodies to the baby और can reduce the रिस्क of अनेक रोगों in the baby.
It भी contains अनेक अन्य nutrients.
As an agricultural product, milk is निकाली इससे स्तनधारियों और प्रयुक्त as खाना लिये humans.
Worldwide, दुग्ध खेतो उत्पादित परिचय 730 लाख टन of milk in 2011.
India is the world 's largest निर्माता और उपभोक्ता of मिल्क, yet neither निर्यात nor imports milk.
New जीलैंड, the यूरोपीय संघ 's 27 सदस्य राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और the संयुक्त States are the world 's largest exporters of milk and milk products.
China और रूस हैं the संसार 's largest importers of milk and milk products.
Throughout the संसार, वहीँ हैं अधिक than 6 अरब consumers of milk and milk products.
over 750 लाख लोगों सजीव भीतर dairy farming households.
Milk is a कुंजी योगदानकर्ता to improving पोषण और खाना सुरक्षा particularly in developing countries.
Improvements in livestock and dairy प्रौद्योगिकी प्रस्ताव significant वादा in reducing गरीबी और कुपोषण in the world.
Motorcycle स्पीडवे, प्रायः referred to as स्पीडवे, is a मोटरसाइकिल खेल involving चार और sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit.
Speedway मोटरसाइकिल उपयोग तभी एक गियर और have no brakes और रेसिंग takes प्लेस on a flat oval track usually consisting of dirt or loosely packed shale.
Competitors use this surface to slide their मशीने बगलों, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the straight भाग of the track the मोटरसाइकिल reach speeds of up.
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a type of speedway racing being practised in the USA पहले the पहला संसार युद्ध और in ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the लेट 1910s और जल्दी 1920s.
There are now both domestic and अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिताओं in a क्रमांक of देशों सहित the स्पीडवे संसार कप whilst the उच्चतम overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion.
स्पीडवे is लोकप्रिय in सेंट्रल और उत्तरी यूरोपीय और to a lesser extent in Australia and North America.
A variant of track रेसिंग, स्पीडवे is administered internationally by the fédération internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ).
Domestic स्पीडवे कार्यक्रम हैं regulated by fim संबद्ध national motor sport federations.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate.
In humans, the most important related यौगिकों of विटामिन d हैं विटामिन d2 और विटामिन d3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as वे constitute कया we जान as विटामिन d और can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although विटामिन d is commonly पुकारा a विटामिन, it is नहीं दरअसल an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize विटामिन d efficiently और जरूर प्राप्त it in their diet. )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, और जरूर be प्राप्त इससे उनके diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, विटामिन d थी खोजा in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी, namely, rickets, the बाल्यकाल रूप of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called vitamins, in the विकसित संसार विटामिन d is added to स्टेपल भोजन, ऐसे as मिल्क, to avoid बीमारी due to कमियां.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous संश्लेषण इससे एक्सपोज़र to धूप as खूब as सेवन इससे the आहार, और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D इससे सूर्य एक्सपोज़र works in a प्रतिक्रिया लूप कि रोकता toxicity लकिन, क्युकी of अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप, no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान, यूएसए, लिये the राशि of सूर्य exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference intakes लिये विटामिन d assume कि no संश्लेषण occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d is इससे उनके आहार, हालांकि कि होगा rarely occur in practice.
In the जिगर विटामिन d is परिवर्तित to calcidiol, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as calcifediol ( इन ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the गुर्दे to calcitriol, the biologically क्रियाशील रूप of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, such as the अप्रसार, differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol भी affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of विटामिन d supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best प्रमाण of लाभ is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in mortality in elderly women.
the duramax is a सामान्य मोटर्स डीज़ल इंजन परिवार लिये light- और medium duty trucks, designed by Isuzu.
The 6.6-liter duramax is उत्पादित by dmax, a संयुक्त venture between GM and Isuzu in Moraine, Ohio.
This engine was initially संस्थापित in 2001 मॉडल साल चेवी और जीएमसी ट्रक और रै महरूम an विकल्प चूंकि तब in pickups, वैन, and medium-duty trucks.
In 2006, production at Moraine was reportedly सीमित to लगभग 200,000 इंजन per year.
On may 9, 2007, dmax घोषित the उत्पादन of the 1,000,000th Duramax V-8 diesel at its Moraine facility.
duramax LML
balto.
is also a परंपरागत लिखा संक्षिप्त लिये बाल्टीमोर, Maryland.
Statue of Balto in सेंट्रल पार्क ( नई यॉर्क City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14, 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome, in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported इससे anchorage, अलास्का, to nenana, अलास्का, by ट्रैन और तब to nome by श्वान sled to कॉम्बैट an outbreak of the disease.
The run is commemorated by the सालाना iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race.
balto थी नामित बाद the सामी एक्सप्लोरर सैमुएल Balto.
balto died at the आयु of 14.
Professor Stephen Hawking, known लिये होने a सैद्धांतिक physicist, रै appeared in अनेक works of लोकप्रिय संस्कृति.
The निसान उच्चिष्ट is a mid-size / entry-level लक्ज़री car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder संस्करण of the bluebird, और थी spun into इसके अपना लकीर in 1981, having been made continuously since then.
The `` Maxima '' नाम थी लागू धीरे, शुरूआत in 1981.
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in Oppama, जापानी, जबतक the वर्तमान उत्तर अमरीकी maximas प्रारंभ होने assembled in Smyrna, Tennessee.
The `` Maxima '' has also been applied to cefiros और चलेगा in विभिन्न बाज़ार.
propolis as छत्ता sealing
Propolis is a resinous मिश्रण कि मधु मधुमक्खियों collect इससे पेड़ कलियों, sap बहती, or अन्य botanical sources.
it is प्रयुक्त as a sealant लिये unwanted open spaces in the hive.
Propolis is प्रयुक्त लिये छोटी गैप ( लगभग or कम ), while larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax.
Its रंग varies depending on इसके वनस्पति सोर्स, the most common being dark brown.
propolis is स्टिकी at और ऊपर रूम तापमान,.
At lower temperatures, it becomes मुश्किल और बहुत भंगुर.
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26, 1948 ) is an American singer, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the frontman और सीसे सिंगर of the बोस्टन -आधारd चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ, in जिससे he भी plays the हार्मोनिका, and occasional piano and percussion.
he is ज्ञात as the `` राक्षस of screamin ' '' due to his high screams and his wide vocal range.
he is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके on-stage acrobatics.
During his high-energy प्रदर्शन, he प्रायः पोशाक in उज्जवल, रंगीन outfits साथ उसके ट्रेडमार्क scarves hanging from his microphone stand.
In the 1970s, Tyler रोज़ to prominence as the frontman of एरोस्मिथ, जिससे released ऐसे पड़ाव मुश्किल चट्टान एल्बम as Toys in the Attic and Rocks.
In the late 1970s और जल्दी 1980s, टायलर था a भारी ड्रग और दारू व्यसन, और the बैंड 's popularity waned.
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently कायम गम्भीरता लिये over 20 सालो, लकिन था a पतन साथ नुस्खा painkillers in the late 2000s, for which he successfully received treatment in 2009.
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and जल्दी 1990s साथ the एल्बम स्थाई अवकाश, पंप, और मिलेंगी a पकड़, टायलर became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon.
As a result, he has since embarked on अनेक सोलो endeavors सहित अतिथि दिखावे on अन्य कलाकारों ' म्यूज़िक, फिल्मी and TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ), authoring a bestselling book, and solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ).
However, he has जारी to रिकार्ड म्यूज़िक और perform साथ एरोस्मिथ, बाद अधिक than 43 years in the band.
The band 's नवीनतम एल्बम, म्यूज़िक इससे Another Dimension !
, was released on नवम्बर 6, 2012.
Tyler is शामिल among रोलिंग पत्थरों 100 Greatest Singers.
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit parader 's शीर्ष 100 मेटल vocalists of सब समय.
In 2001 he was inducted into the Rock और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति साथ एरोस्मिथ, और he थी the प्रस्तुतकर्ता when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler and उसके songwriting संगी जो पेरी होगा be प्राप्तकर्ता of the ascap संस्थापकों पुरस्कार और होगा भी be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
the जिगर produces यूरिया in the यूरिया साईकिल as a बर्बाद उत्पाद of the digestion of protein.
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of यूरिया नाइट्रोजन प्रति 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood.
Individual laboratories may have अलग सन्दर्भ सीमाएँ, और इस is क्युकी the procedure may vary.
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच और कॉलेज और पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी जो थी the सिर कोच of the एनएफएल 's डेट्रॉयट Lions from 1988 to 1996.
His 67 विन्स और 71 नुकसान हैं प्रत्येक the सबसे लिये a सिर coach in team history.
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ), also known as the Jewish people, are a nation और an ethnoreligious समूह, originating in the israelites or hebrews of the प्राचीन निकट East.
The Jewish ethnicity, nationality, and religion are strongly interrelated, as judaism is the परंपरागत आस्था of the Jewish nation.
Converts to judaism, जिनकी औकात as यहूदियों भीतर the यहूदी ethnos is बराबर to those born into it, have महरूम absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia.
In यहूदी परंपरा, यहूदी ancestry is traced to the biblical patriarchs अब्राहम, Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE.
the आधुनिक राज्य of इसराईल थी स्थापित as a Jewish nation-state, and defines itself as such in its Basic Laws.
Its Law of Return grants the सही of नागरिकता to कोई jew जो निवेदन it.
Israel is the only country where Jews हैं a बहुमत of the population.
Jews also enjoyed political स्वायत्तता twice पहले in प्राचीन इतिहास.
The first of these periods lasted इससे 1350 to 586 bce, और encompassed the अवधि of the न्यायाधीशों, the संयुक्त साम्राज्य, और the विभाजित साम्राज्य of the kingdoms of इसराईल और यहूदा, समाप्ति साथ the विनाश of the First Temple.
The second was the period of the hasmonean किंगडम spanning इससे 140 to 37 BCE.
Since the विनाश of the पहला टेम्पल, most Jews have lived in diaspora.
A minority in every country in which they live ( except इसराईल ), वे have अक्सर अनुभवी persecution throughout इतिहास, resulting in a जनसांख्यिकी कि रै fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries.
The world Jewish जनसांख्यिकी पहुँचे a शिखर of 15 लाख prior to the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, लकिन छह लाख Jews were killed in the Holocaust.
Since then the population has risen again और, थी अनुमानित at 13.4 लाख by the उत्तर अमरीकी यहूदी आंकड़ा बैंको, or कम than 0.2 % of the कुल संसार जनसांख्यिकी ( roughly one in every 514 people ).
according to इस रपट, परिचय 42.5 % of सब यहूदियों reside in इसराईल ( 5.7 लाख ), और 39.3 % in the संयुक्त राज्य ( 5.3 million ), with most of the remainder living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ).
These numbers include all those who consider themselves यहूदियों, whether or नहीं वे हैं संबद्ध साथ a यहूदी संगठन.
The total संसार यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी, however, is difficult to measure.
In addition to issues with census methodology, there are halakhic disputes regarding who is a jew और धर्मनिरपेक्ष, राजनैतिक, और ancestral पहचान factors that may affect the figure considerably.
कॉर्पस christi procession.
Oil on कैनवास by कार्ल एमिल doepler.
Corpus Domini redirects यहाँ.
For अन्य उपयोग देखिए कॉर्पस domini ( disambiguation )
The feast of कॉर्पस christi ( लैटिन लिये देह of मसीह ), भी ज्ञात as कॉर्पस domini, is a लैटिन रीति liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist.
It emphasizes the joy of the संस्था of the eucharist, जिससे थी observed on पावन गुरुवार in the somber माहौल of the nearness of Good Friday.
In the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of the सबसे पावन Body and Blood of Christ.
It is also celebrated in कुछ anglican, लूथरन, और बूढ़ा कैथोलिक चर्च कि थाम similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence.
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity संडे or, `` जहाँ the solemnity of the सबसे पावन देह और रक्त of मसीह is नहीं a पावन दिन of दायित्व, it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day ''.
At the end of Holy Mass, there is often a बारात of the धन्य sacrament, generally प्रदर्शित in a monstrance.
the बारात is followed by सुनाकर of the Blessed Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each साल in रोम, जहाँ it begins at the archbasilica of st. जॉन lateran और makes इसके रास्ता to the basilica of Saint Mary Major, where it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood, the स्तर of जिससे वृद्धि in जवाब to सूजन ( i.e. c-reactive प्रोटीन is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the सतह of मुर्दे or मरना कोशिकाएं ( और कुछ प्रकार of जीवाणु ) in अनुक्रम to activate the पूरक प्रणाली via the c1q complex.
CRP is synthesized by the liver in जवाब to कारकों released by macrophages और मोटे कोशिकाएं ( adipocytes ).
It is a सदस्य of the pentraxin परिवार of proteins.
It is not related to c-peptide or प्रोटीन c.
C-reactive प्रोटीन थी the पहला पैटर्न मान्यता receptor ( PRR ) to be identified.
The start of the systematic European colonization of the americas is typically दिनाँक to 1492, जब a स्पेनी expedition headed by क्रिस्टोफर कोलंबस sailed लिये इण्डिया to खोलें व्यापार but inadvertently discovered the Americas.
European conquest, large-scale खोजी और colonization soon followed.
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied with many आतंरिक युद्धों और थी धीरे recovering इससे the अनेक मौतों कि the bubonic प्लेग caused, the रैपिड विस्तार at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
The first expeditions occurred साथ the caribbean coasts on the आइलैंड्स of हिस्पानिओला, प्यूर्टो रीको और क्यूबा, और बाद 1500 विस्तारित into the इंटीरियर्स of दोनो उत्तर और दक्षिण America.
In 1497, sailing from the north on behalf of England, John Cabot landed on the उत्तर अमरीकी coast, और a साल बाद, कोलंबस 's तीसरा voyage पहुँचे the दक्षिण अमरीकी coast.
France संस्थापित colonies in much of पूर्वी उत्तर अमेरिका, on a क्रमांक of Caribbean islands, and in South America.
पुर्तगाल colonized Brazil.
Eventually, the entire Western Hemisphere came under the कंट्रोल of यूरोपीय सरकारें, अग्रणी to profound परिवर्तन to इसके लैंडस्केप, जनसांख्यिकी, and plant and animal life.
In the 19th सदी अलोन over 50 लाख लोगों left Europe for the Americas.
The post-1492 era is ज्ञात as the काल of the columbian एक्सचेंज.
कैथ रिचर्ड्स ( born 18 दिसम्बर 1943 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार, singer-songwriter and founder member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones.
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards had created `` rock 's महानतम सिंगल देह of riffs '', रैंकिंग उसे 4th on इसके सूची of 100 बेहतरीन guitarists.
Fourteen गीतों रिचर्ड्स लिखा साथ the रोलिंग पत्थरों ' सीसे vocalist मिक जैगर हैं सूचीबद्ध among रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time ``.
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the लेट 1960s और 1970s और उसके candour regarding उसके व्यसन to और eventual abstinence from heroin.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen समूह और is मिला in स्तनधारियों, सरीसृपों, पक्षियों, और अन्य vertebrates.
in स्तनधारियों, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is primarily स्रावित in the अंडकोष of males and the ovaries of females, although small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands.
It is the प्रिंसिपल पुरूष sex हार्मोन और an anabolic steroid.
In मेन, टेस्टोस्टेरोन plays a कुंजी भूमिका in the विकास of पुरूष reproductive ऊतकों ऐसे as the testis और प्रोस्टेट as well as promoting secondary sexual characteristics such as increased muscle, bone mass, and the growth of body hair.
in जोड, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is अनिवार्य लिये स्वास्थ्य और well-being as खूब as the prevention of osteoporosis.
On average, in वयस्क इंसान males, the प्लाज्मा विशेषज्ञता of टेस्टोस्टेरोन is परिचय 7–8 टाइम्स as ग्रेट as the विशेषज्ञता in वयस्क इंसान महिलाओं ' प्लाज्मा, but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men.
Females also are more संवेदनशील to the हार्मोन.
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is observed in most vertebrates.
Fish मेक a थोड़ा अलग रूप पुकारा 11-ketotestosterone.
इसके बंटवारा in कीट is ecdysone.
ये सर्वव्यापी steroids सुझाएँ कि sex hormones have an ancient evolutionary history.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` प्राकृतिक '' लकिन अपेक्षाकृत समरूप groupings हैं evident in a सांख्यिकीय population.
It is प्रायः प्रयुक्त in विपणन research.
In this technique, the कुल जनसांख्यिकी is विभाजित into ये समूह ( or क्लस्टर ) और a सरल यादृच्छिक sample of the groups is selected.
Then the जरूरी सूचना is एकत्रित इससे a सरल यादृच्छिक नमूना of the तत्व within each selected group.
This may be done लिये प्रत्येक तत्व in ये समूह or a subsample of तत्व may be चयनित within each of these groups.
A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the total क्रमांक of साक्षात्कार और लागत दिए the desired सटीकता.
Assuming a फिक्स्ड नमूना आकार, the तकनीक देता अधिक सटीक परिणाम जब सबसे of the विभिन्नता in the population is within the groups, not between them.
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County, North कैरोलिना, संयुक्त राज्य, और is a उपनगरीय of the आसपास शहरों of greensboro और ऊँची Point.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,382 at the 2010 census.
नताली पोर्टमैन ( born नताली hershlag ; ; जून 9, 1981 ) is an अभिनेत्री और मॉडल with dual American and Israeli citizenship.
Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action film, but mainstream कामयाबी आए जब वो थी डाल as padmé amidala in the स्टार युद्धों प्रीक्वेल त्रयी ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, वो नामांकित at हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों to पढ़ाई मनोविज्ञान while still working as an actress.
She completed her स्नातक 's उपाधि in 2003.
In 2001, Portman opened in नई यॉर्क नगर 's पब्लिक थिएटर उत्पादन of एंटोन Chekhov 's The Seagull.
In 2005, Portman received a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री और जीती the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer.
She won a Constellation Award for Best Female Performance and a Saturn Award for Best अभिनेत्री लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिका in v लिये वेंडेट्टा ( 2006 ).
She played leading roles in the historical dramas गोया 's भूत ( 2006 ) और the अन्य बोलिन लड़की ( 2008 ).
In May 2008, she परोसा as the youngest सदस्य of the 61st सालाना कैन फिल्मी Festival jury.
Portman 's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th Venice अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स प्रतियोगिता in 2008.
पोर्टमैन निर्देशित a खण्ड of the collective film New York, I Love You.
In 2011, Portman won the Academy Award, the Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार, the bafta पुरस्कार, the स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और the स्वतंत्र स्पिरिट पुरस्कार लिये उसके सीसे performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan.
Copper is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक cu ( from ) and atomic number 29.
It is a ductile metal with very ऊँची थर्मल और विद्युत चालकता.
Pure copper is नरम और malleable ; a freshly उजागर सतह has a reddish-orange color.
It is used as a कंडक्टर of ऊष्मा और विद्युत, a भवन सामग्री, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
The metal and its alloys have महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये हज़ारों of सालो.
In the Roman era, तांबे थी प्रधानतया mined on साइप्रस, hence the उत्पत्ति of the name of the metal as сyprium ( metal of Cyprus ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts, which प्रायः impart ब्लू or ग्रीन रंगों to खनिज ऐसे as azurite और फ़िरोज़ा and have been widely used historically as pigments.
Architectural structures built with तांबे corrode to दे ग्रीन verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative art prominently सुविधाएँ तांबे, दोनो by itself and as part of pigments.
Copper is essential to all living organisms as a ट्रेस dietary खनिज क्युकी it is a कुंजी constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea तांबे is a constituent of the रक्त रंजक hemocyanin, जिससे is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates.
The main areas where copper is मिला in vertebrates हैं जिगर, मांसपेशी और अस्थि.
In sufficient concentration, copper compounds are जहरीला to उच्चतर जीवों और हैं प्रयुक्त as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and wood preservatives.
The major professional sports leagues, or simply major leagues, in the United राज्य और कनाडा हैं the उच्चतम पेशेवर प्रतियोगिताओं of टोली खेल in the दो देशों.
हालांकि व्यक्तिगत खेल ऐसे as गोल्फ़, tennis, and auto racing are also very popular, the term is usually limited to team sports.
The term `` major league '' थी पहला प्रयुक्त in 1921 in सन्दर्भ to प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ), the top level of professional American baseball.
Today, the major northern North America professional team sports leagues are Major लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ), the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ), the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ), and the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Other notable लीग शामिल प्रमुख लीग सॉकर ( mls ), the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( cfl ), the एरिना फ़ुटबॉल League, Major League Lacrosse, the National Lacrosse League and the Women 's National Basketball Association.
The NFL, MLB, NBA, और एनएचएल हैं commonly referred to as the Big Four.
Each of ये is the richest पेशेवर क्लबों प्रतियोगिता in its sport worldwide.
the बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी can become सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक in दोनो देशों और elsewhere in the संसार, क्युकी the लीग enjoy a significant place in popular culture in the US and Canada.
The एनएफएल रै 32 टीमों, और the others have 30 each.
The vast majority of प्रमुख लीग टीमों हैं concentrated in the सबसे populous महानगर areas of the United States.
Baseball, football, hockey, and soccer have had professional leagues for over 100 years ; जल्दी लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल संघ, ओहियो लीग, और नेशनल हॉकी संघ formed the आधार of the आधुनिक एमएलबी, एनएफएल और एनएचएल क्रमशः.
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894, लकिन लीग suffered greatly इससे कमी of स्थिरता और seldom lasted अधिक than a दशक.
Soccer 's महानतम सफलताओं यहूद in the रूप of the अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ), the असली उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1968-1984 ), the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and, currently, Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ).
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the एनबीए विकसित इससे the नेशनल बास्केट लीग और इसके splinter समूह the बास्केट संघ of अमेरिका, लेने on इसके current form in 1949.
Every major league averages 15,000 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति प्रति खेल or उच्चतर as of 2011.
Meridian Altitude is an खगोलीय नेविगेशन method of calculating an observer 's latitude.
Earned value management ( EVM ), or Earned value project/performance प्रबन्धन ( evpm ) is a प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन तकनीक लिये measuring प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन और प्रगति in an उद्देश्य manner.
क्युकी evm रै the क्षमता to combine measurements of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
और cost,
in a single integrated system, अर्जित मान प्रबन्धन is समर्थ to provide सटीक forecasts of प्रोजेक्ट performance problems, which is an important contribution for project management.
Early EVM research showed that the areas of नियोजन और कंट्रोल हैं significantly impacted by इसके उपयोग ; और similarly, using the methodology improves दोनो पैमाना परिभाषा as खूब as the analysis of overall project performance.
More recent शोध अध्ययन have दिखाया कि the सिद्धान्त of evm हैं धनात्मक predictors of project success.
Popularity of EVM रै grown significantly in हाल सालो परे सरकारी contracting, in जिससे सेक्टर इसके महत्व continues to वृद्धि ( e.g., हाल new DFAR rules ), in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes.
Colorful वसन्त गार्डन पुष्प
Spring is एक of the चार conventional शीतोष्ण सीज़न, following winter and preceding summer.
वहीँ हैं विभिन्न तकनीकी परिभाषाएं of वसन्त, लकिन लोकल उपयोग of the term varies according to local climate, cultures and customs.
When it is spring in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध, it होगा be पतझड़ in the दक्षिणी hemisphere.
At the spring equinox, days are close to 12 घंटों long साथ दिन लंबाई increasing as the ऋतु progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, and also to विचार of rebirth, कायाकल्प, नवीकरण, क़यामत, और regrowth, साथ त्यौहार such as Carnival, Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time.
Jamestown was a settlement in the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया, the पहला स्थाई अंग्रेज़ी settlement in the Americas.
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on may 14, 1607 ( o.s., may 24, 1607 n.s. ), it followed अनेक पहले विफल कोशिशें, सहित the खोया उपनिवेश of roanoke.
Jamestown परोसा as the पूंजी of the उपनिवेश लिये 83 सालो, from 1616 until 1699.
The settlement was located within the territory of a political एंटिटी ज्ञात as tsenacommacah, the राज्य of the powhatan confederacy, साथ around 14,000 देशी inhabitants, and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe.
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing, feasting and tobacco ceremonies, and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists, जो यहूद नहीं agriculturally inclined, हालांकि संबंध साथ the newcomers भी soured fairly जल्दी on, अग्रणी to the कुल annihilation of the paspahegh in warfare within 3 years.
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding, the वर्जिनिया कम्पनी brought पॉलिश और डच colonists to सहायता improve the settlement.
In 1619, the first documented Africans were brought to Jamestown, हालांकि the आधुनिक धारणा of गुलामी in the भविष्य संयुक्त राज्य किया नहीं begin in Virginia until 1660.
When the colony was subdivided into the original आठ shires of वर्जिनिया in 1634, the कस्बा became स्तिथ in the eponymous जेम्स City Shire.
The London Company 's second settlement, Bermuda, claims to be the site of the oldest कस्बा in the अंग्रेज़ी नई संसार, as st. जार्ज 's, बरमूडा was officially established ( as New London ) in 1612, whereas James Fort, in Virginia, was not to be converted into James towne until 1619, and further did not survive into the present day.
In 1699, the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today williamsburg, बाद जिससे jamestown ceased to मौजूद as a settlement, existing today only as an archaeological site.
आज, jamestown is एक of तीन स्थितियाँ comprising the ऐतिहासिक त्रिभुज of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया, साथ with Williamsburg and Yorktown, with two primary heritage sites.
Historic Jamestowne, the archaeological site on Jamestown Island, is a cooperative effort by jamestown नेशनल ऐतिहासिक साईट ( भाग of औपनिवेशिक नेशनल ऐतिहासिक पार्क ), और संरक्षण Virginia.
The Jamestown उपनिवेश, a जीना इतिहास interpretive साईट, is संचालित by the jamestown yorktown न्यास in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia.
James Christopher Frey ( born सितंबर 12, 1969 ) is an American writer.
उसके किताबे a लाख छोटी टुकड़े ( 2003 ) और my dost लियोनार्ड ( 2005 ), as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ), were bestsellers.
He was the subject of a scandal when investigators discovered कि थाना समय और the extent of निश्चित चोटों यहूद अतिरंजित in a लाख छोटी टुकड़े, a अधिकारीगण autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction.
Deere & कम्पनी, सबसे commonly ज्ञात by इसके नाम जॉन deere, is an अमरीकी निगम आधारित in moline, इलिनोइस, और एक of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world.
In 2012, it was listed as 97th in the Fortune 500 अमेरिका 's रैंकिंग और 190th in the सौभाग्य 500 Global ranking.
Deere and Company agricultural products, बेची अंतर्गत the जॉन deere नाम, शामिल tractors, combine हार्वेस्टर, कपास हार्वेस्टर, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and UTVs.
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment, as खूब as a प्रदायक of डीज़ल इंजन और drivetrains ( axles, ट्रांसमिशन, gearboxes ) used in heavy equipment.
Additionally, John Deere manufactures उपकरण प्रयुक्त in लॉन, grounds, और turf परवाह, ऐसे as walk-behind लॉन mowers, zero-turn लॉन mowers, lawn tractors, and snowthrowers.
To support the core व्यवसायों, जॉन deere भी provides वित्तीय सेवाएं और अन्य related activities.
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' और रै a चित्र of a leaping हिरण as a लोगो, a शब्द खेल pun on `` nothing रनों जैसे a deer ''.
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` nothing रनों जैसे a deere '' लिये a विपणन अभियान to sell snowmobiles.
the कम्पनी 's उत्पाद हैं भी identifiable by इसके distinctive shade of green paint, usually augmented by yellow trim.
The United States ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक, जबकि the u.S. राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स.
( Hamilton is एक of दो non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल जारी u.S. bills.
the अन्य is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four लोगों प्रदर्शित on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) जो थी नहीं born in the महाद्वीपीय United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी प्रमाणपत्र ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य क्वार्टर. )
सब $ 10 बिल्स जारी आज are Federal Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने before it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 यहूद $ 10 बिल्स.
Ten dollar bills are delivered by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in पीला straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper करेंसी in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the बाएँ ( the $ 100,000 विधेयक प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of वुडरो विल्सन facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
Andy सैमुएल ग्रिफ़िथ ( जून 1, 1926 – जुलाई 3, 2012 ) थी an अमरीकी कर्ता, टेलीविज़न producer, Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer, and writer.
He was a Tony Award nominee लिये दो भूमिकाएँ, और gained prominence in the अभिनीत भूमिका in निदेशक एलिया कज़न 's फिल्मी a फेस in the भीड ( 1957 ) पहले he became बेहतर known for his television roles, playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock.
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin, ( née Raines ; born जुलाई 20, 1964 ) is an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई -आधारd, अमरीकी -born naturalist, author, the widow of Australian naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia.
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile Hunter, their unconventional television nature वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी साथ साथ इसके spin-off श्रेणी, क्रोक फाइलें और the मगरमच्छ शिकारी डायरीज़.
She has lived in ऑस्ट्रेलिया चूंकि 1992, जब वो शादीशुदा स्टीव Irwin.
Andreas Cellarius 's उदाहरण of the copernican प्रणाली, इससे the harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the खगोलीय मॉडल in जिससे the धरती और ग्रह revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the center of the Solar System.
The word आता इससे the यूनानी ( helios `` sun '' and kentron `` center '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, जिससे लगाई the धरती at the center.
The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos, but aristarchus 's heliocentrism आकर्षित छोटी ध्यान जबतक कोपरनिकस revived और elaborated it.
Lucio Russo, however, argues that इस is a भ्रामक छाप resulting इससे the घाटा of वैज्ञानिक works of the hellenistic Era.
Using indirect evidence he argues कि a heliocentric दृश्य थी expounded in हिप्पारकस 's work on gravity.
It was not until the 16th सदी कि a fully predictive गणितीय मॉडल of a heliocentric प्रणाली थी प्रस्तुत, by the पुनर्जागरण गणितज्ञ, astronomer, and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland, leading to the Copernican Revolution.
In the following century, योहानेस कॅप्लर elaborated upon और विस्तारित इस मॉडल to शामिल अंडाकार orbits, and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of विलियम हर्शेल, फ्रेडरिक bessel, और अन्य, खगोलशास्त्रियों एहसास कि the सूर्य थी नहीं the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड और by the 1920s Edwin Hubble had shown that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions.
Norah Jones ( born Geetali नोराह जोन्स शंकर ; कूच 30, 1979 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
She is the daughter of भारतीय सितार खिलाड़ी रवि शंकर और Sue Jones.
She is भी anoushka शंकर 's half-sister.
In 2002, वो शुभारम्भ उसके सोलो म्यूज़िक करियर साथ the रिलीज of the commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed album Come Away with Me, a fusion of country music and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album, selling over 26 million copies.
The record अर्जित जोन्स पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, सहित the एल्बम of the साल, रिकार्ड of the साल, and Best New Artist.
Her subsequent studio albums, Feels Like Home, released in 2004, Not Too Late, released in 2007, the same year she made उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in my ब्लूबेरी नाइट्स, और उसके 2009 रिलीज the पतन सब gained प्लेटिनम औकात, selling over a लाख नक़ल और यहूद generally well received by critics.
Jones ' fifth studio album, छोटी टूटा दिल, थी released on अप्रैल 27, 2012.
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards और थी 60th on बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका 's कलाकारों of the 2000–2009 decade chart.
throughout उसके करियर, जोन्स रै जीती numerous पुरस्कार और has sold more than 50 million albums worldwide.
बिलबोर्ड नामित उसके the शीर्ष जैज़ artist of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be confused साथ आयाम of a शारीरिक quantity.
For अन्य उपयोग, देखिए आयाम ( disambiguation ).
From left to right, the वर्गाकार, the घन, और the tesseract.
The वर्गाकार is bounded by 1-dimensional लाइनों, the घन by 2-dimensional क्षेत्रों, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
A projection of the घन is दिए चूंकि it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
The same applies to the tesseract, जिससे additionally can तभी be दिखाया as a प्रक्षेप भी in three-dimensional space.
A diagram प्रर्दशित the पहला चार स्थानिक dimensions.
In physics and गणित, the आयाम of a स्पेस or ऑब्जेक्ट is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify any point within it.
Thus a लकीर रै a आयाम of एक क्युकी तभी एक निर्देशांक is needed to बताएँ a point on it ( for example, the point at 5 on a number line ).
A surface such as a plane or the सतह of a बेलन or गोला रै a आयाम of दो क्युकी दो निर्देशांक हैं needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( लिये example, to locate a point on the surface of a sphere you need both its latitude and its longitude ).
The inside of a cube, a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional क्युकी तीन निर्देशांक हैं needed to locate a point within these spaces.
In physical terms, dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ), as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures कि correlate साथ दोनो कण और फ़ील्ड conceptions, interact according to सापेक्ष गुण of द्रव्यमान —and are fundamentally mathematical in description.
These, or अन्य अक्ष, may be संदर्भित to uniquely पहचानो a पाइंट or ढांचा in इसके रवैया and relationship to other objects and occurrences.
Physical theories that चरितार्थ समय, ऐसे as सामान्य आपेक्षिकता, हैं कहा to कार्य in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( defined as a Minkowski space ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' सहित क्वांटम फ़ील्ड और स्ट्रिंग theories.
The state-space of क्वांटम यांत्रिकी is an infinite-dimensional function space.
the अवधारणा of आयाम is नहीं प्रतिबंधित to physical objects.
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for अनेक कारण, अक्सर as विन्यास स्पेसेस ऐसे as in लाग्रांजीय or हेमिल्टोनीय यांत्रिकी ; ये हैं अमूर्त स्पेसेस, स्वतंत्र of the physical space we live in.
Fontana ( ) is a नगर of 200,762 निवासियों in San Bernardino County, California.
Founded in 1913, it remained essentially ग्रामीण जबतक संसार युद्ध ii, जब उद्योगों हेनरी J. कैसर निर्मित a large steel mill in the area.
It is now a regional hub of the trucking उद्योग, साथ अंतरराज्यीय 10 और राज्य रूट 210 transecting the नगर इससे ईस्ट to वेस्ट, और अंतरराज्यीय 15 गुजर diagonally through its northwestern quadrant.
It is home to the largest of the San Bernardino County system पुस्तकालयों, a संवर ऐतिहासिक थिएटर, a नगरपालिका पार्क, और the स्वचालित क्लबों स्पीडवे on the साईट of the कैसर Steel Mill.
Fontana also hosts the fontana दिनों हाफ मैराथन and 5K run.
This race is the तीव्रतम half-marathon कोर्स in the world.
The U.S. 2012 जनसांख्यिकी reported कि fontana 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 200,762 in 2012, बनाना it the second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state.
cowboys स्टेडियम is a स्टेडियम साथ a retractable roof in Arlington, Texas.
It serves as the घर of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's डलास Cowboys.
It replaced the partially covered टेक्सास स्टेडियम, जिससे खोली in 1971, और परोसा as the Cowboys ' home through the 2008 season.
It was समाप्त on may 27, 2009.
The stadium seats 85,000, making it the तीसरा largest स्टेडियम in the एनएफएल by seating क्षमता.
The maximum क्षमता of the स्टेडियम, सहित खड़ा room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are पीछे सीटे in प्रत्येक समाप्त मण्डल और on a श्रेणी of छह elevated प्लेटफ़ॉर्म कनेक्ट by stairways.
It has the world 's largest column-free आंतरिक और the चौथी largest ऊँची परिभाषा वीडियो स्क्रीन, जिससे hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line.
The facility can also be प्रयुक्त लिये a किस्में of अन्य क्रियाएँ बाहर of इसके प्रमुख purpose ( पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल ) ऐसे as कॉन्सर्ट, बास्केट games, boxing matches, college football and high school football contests, soccer matches, and motocross races.
Canadian इतिहासकारों जबतक the 1980s tended to फ़ोकस on आर्थिक history, including labour history.
In part this is because कनाडा रै था दूर कम राजनैतिक or सैन्य विरोध than अन्य societies.
This was especially true in the पहला हाफ of the बीसवीं सदी जब आर्थिक इतिहास थी overwhelmingly dominant.
Many of the most prominent English Canadian historians from this period were आर्थिक इतिहासकारों, ऐसे as हेरोल्ड innis, डोनाल्ड creighton और आर्थर R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history यहूद वारिस to the परंपराओं कि विकसित in यूरोपीय और the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन frameworks कि worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada.
The heavily मार्क्सवादी बहकावे आर्थिक इतिहास कि dominates यूरोपीय has little relevance to most of Canadian history.
A focus on class, urban areas, and industry fails to पता कनाडा 's ग्रामीण और संसाधन आधारित अर्थव्यवस्था.
Similarly, the monetarist school that is dominant in the संयुक्त राज्य भी रै महरूम मुश्किल to ट्रांसफ़र उत्तर of the border.
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on economic भूगोल, और लिये अनेक सालो the प्रबल स्कूल of विचार रै महरूम the स्टेपल्स लेख.
इस स्कूल of विचार bases the पढ़ाई of the कनाडाई economy on the study of natural resources.
इस दृष्टिकोण रै चूंकि भी become प्रयुक्त बाहर of कनाडा in Australia and in many developing nations.
पहले the आगमन of europeans, the पहला राष्ट्र of कया would become Canada had a large and vibrant trade network.
Furs, tools, decorative items, and other goods were प्रायः transported हज़ारों of किलोमीटर, ज़्यादातर by कैनो throughout the अनेक नदियाँ and lakes of the region.
The early European history of the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था is प्रायः पढ़ाई through the स्टेपल्स लेख जिससे argues the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था विकसित through the exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe.
Carbon-14, 14C, or radiocarbon, is a रेडियोसक्रिय समस्थानिक of कार्बन साथ a केंद्रक containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its presence in organic materials is the basis of the radiocarbon डेटिंग विधि pioneered by willard लिब्बी और सहयोगियों ( 1949 ) to तिथि पुरातत्व, geological and hydrogeological samples.
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940, by Martin कामेन और sam रूबेन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया विकिरण प्रयोगशाला in बर्कली, हालांकि इसके अस्तित्व था महरूम सुझाया by फ्रांज kurie in 1934.
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, and carbon-14 occurs in ट्रेस amounts, i.e., बनाना up परिचय 1 भाग प्रति खरब ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years.
carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta decay.
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on धरती is लौकिक रे कार्रवाई upon नाइट्रोजन in the atmosphere, and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide.
However, open-air नाभिकीय परीक्षण between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool.
The different isotopes of carbon do नहीं differ appreciably in उनके रासायनिक properties.
This is used in chemical and biological research, in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 अणु can be प्रयुक्त to बदलें nonradioactive कार्बन, in अनुक्रम to ट्रेस रासायनिक और biochemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ involving कार्बन अणु इससे कोई दिए organic compound.
Lightning is a अत्यधिक दृश्य रूप of उर्जा ट्रांसफ़र
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a विशाल स्केल between the माहौल और an earth-bound object.
They ज़्यादातर originate in thunderclouds और terminate on the ground, called Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning.
However, they may also be initiated from a very tall grounded ऑब्जेक्ट और पहुँचें into the clouds.
Although `` a बिजली स्ट्राइक '' is commonly प्रयुक्त to describe सब बिजली, it is बल्कि ग़लत और a misnomer, as तभी परिचय 25 % of सब बिजली कार्यक्रम विश्वव्यापी हैं cg, the विशाल बल्क of lightning events are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ), where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere.
The scientific name for the पूरा प्रक्रम of a सिंगल बिजली इवेंट is a और it is a बहुत complex, multiple stepped interaction, which is not completely understood.
Most CG flashes only `` strike '' one शारीरिक स्थान, referred to as a termination.
The primary conducting channel, the उज्जवल coursing लाइट तुम may देखिए और कॉल a `` स्ट्राइक '', is तभी परिचय 1 इंच in व्यास, although to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are miles long, upwards of tens of मील.
And the entire फ्लैश, lasts तभी a few भिन्नों of a दूसरी, सबसे of जिससे is not visible to human eyes.
थंडर is सदा उत्पादित by lightning.
Just like lightning, that deceives our eyes, usually looking larger or closer than it वाकई is, the धरती 's माहौल और हमारी दिमाग 's बोध of the बाहर संसार, ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not.
Lightning can नहीं happen in a वैक्यूम विहीन of ions, nor can थंडर occur without molecules to vibrate.
थंडर is a शारीरिक निरपेक्ष for every single flash of lightning.
contrary to लोकप्रिय विश्वास, a बिजली स्ट्राइक itself is प्रायः नहीं responsible for multiple deaths or injuries from a single event.
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of a फ्लैश, जबतक लोगों or पशु यहूद stacked on शीर्ष of प्रत्येक अन्य, or वे यहूद somehow arranged खड़ा और part of the flash channel.
When lightning ignites an available fuel source and an विस्फोट occurs, it is the शॉक वेव or आग causing the चोटों, नहीं the strike itself.
Ground Currents, भी पुकारा कदम संभावित, of an धरती termination is कया truly कल्याणकारी सबसे चोटों or death to humans and animals.
The near instantaneous फटाफट of सतह आरोप, induced by the ओवरहेड thundercloud itself, रेस to the स्ट्राइक पाइंट इससे hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge.
This current, caused during each stroke, takes the path of तनिक प्रतिरोध, जिससे may be आयन समृद्ध इंसान or एनिमल टाँगे, over poorly conducting earth.
This is why it is बेहतरीन to crouch, साथ फीट बंद साथ, if कभी caught in the open during a thunderstorm.
Unfortunately, most reports do not draw a भेद between the रियल कारण of चोट or मौत, be it the स्ट्राइक itself, a resulting explosion or fire, or usually responsible step potential.
पीटर F. kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the current Attorney General of Rhode Island.
Kilmartin is भी a रिटायर्ड पुलिस कप्तान और a पूर्व सदस्य of the Rhode Island House of Representatives.
A couple following उनके विवाह in the manti यूटा टेम्पल.
Sealing is an ordinance ( ritual ) performed in latter दिन संतो मंदिरों by a व्यक्ति पकड़कर the sealing authority.
The purpose of this अध्यादेश is to मुहर परिचित संबंध, बनाना संभावित the अस्तित्व of family relationships throughout eternity.
LDS शिक्षाओं प्लेस ग्रेट महत्व on the विशिष्ट प्राधिकार जरूरी to perform these sealings.
Church doctrine सिखाती कि इस प्राधिकार, पुकारा the priesthood, corresponds to कि दिए to Saint Peter in.
Sealings are typically performed as विवाह or as sealing of children to अभिभावक.
They were performed prior to the death of Joseph Smith, Jr. ( the main संस्थापक of the latter दिन संत गति ), और हैं फिलहाल performed in the गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of Latter-day Saints.
Although some other denominations, ऐसे as the जातियाँ of मसीह, दृश्य sealing as an centuries of स्मिथ 's अभ्यास of बहुवचन विवाह, कुछ do स्टिल perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two thousands '', was a दशक कि began on जनवरी 1, 2000, और ended on दिसम्बर 31, 2009.
Globalization, which had accelerated बाद the जल्दी 1990s पतन of साम्यवादी, जारी to be a फ़ोर्स in the 2000s.
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to वैश्वीकरण दौरान the दशक, बनाना it संभावित लिये लोगों to interact साथ अन्य लोगों, एक्स्प्रेस विचार, introduce अन्य to अलग संस्कृतियों और पृष्ठभूमि, उपयोग goods और सेवाएं, बेचें और ख़रीदे ऑनलाइन, शोध और सीख about things, along with experiencing the world without having to leave home.
The institutions, linkages and technologies कि उभरा or यहूद redefined पहले होता subsequently in इस दशक लाभ अनेक देशों, in particular China and India.
However, in other parts of the world such प्रगति विफल to पता जारी struggles साथ आधुनिकता, सबसे notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups.
The सितंबर 11 हमले in 2001 led to the संयुक्त राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, स्पेन, कनाडा और अन्य राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान, as खूब as implementing विभिन्न anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror.
The European संघ देखी further संयोजन और विस्तार throughout much of Europe.
The आर्थिक विकास of the 2000s था considerable पर्यावरणीय consequences, उठाया माँग लिये घटाते उर्जा संसाधन, और was still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s.
The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral थी a gunfight कि took प्लेस at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार, अक्तूबर 26, 1881, in tombstone, एरिज़ोना territory, और is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted only about thirty seconds, was fought between the outlaw Cowboys बिली claiborne, आइक और बिली clanton, और tom और फ़्रैंक mclaury, और the opposing कस्बा मार्शल वर्जिल earp और उसके भाइयो सहायक कस्बा मार्शल मॉर्गन and temporary lawman Wyatt, aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil.
Ike Clanton and Billy claiborne भागा इससे the लड़ो unharmed, लकिन आइक 's bhai बिली clanton थी मारे, साथ साथ both McLaurys.
Lawmen वर्जिल और मॉर्गन earp and Doc Holliday were wounded.
Only Wyatt Earp आए through the लड़ो unharmed.
The fight has come to represent a समय in अमरीकी इतिहास जब the frontier थी खोलें दायरा लिये outlaws opposed by विधि प्रवर्तन कि थी स्प्रेड पतला over vast territories, leaving some areas unprotected.
The gunfight was नहीं खूब ज्ञात to the अमरीकी पब्लिक जबतक 1931 जब लेखक स्टुअर्ट झील प्रकाशित what has since been determined to be a largely fictionalized biography, Wyatt Earp : Frontier Marshal, two years after Earp 's death.
Lake retold उसके स्टोरी in a 1946 किताब कि निदेशक जॉन घाट विकसित into the movie My Darling Clementine.
After the movie gunfight at the o.k. corral थी released in 1957, the shootout came to be known by that name.
Since then, the conflict has been portrayed साथ varying डिग्री of सटीकता in numerous Western films and books.
Despite its नाम, the gunfight दरअसल occurred in a सीमित लॉट छह द्वार वेस्ट of the पश्च प्रवेश to the O.K. Corral on Fremont Street, and also in the street.
the दो opposing पार्टियों यहूद initially only about apart.
परिचय तीस गोलियाँ यहूद fired in तीस seconds.
Ike Clanton दायर हत्या आरोप विरूद्ध the earps और दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे लकिन वे यहूद आखिरकार exonerated by a लोकल न्यायधीश बाद a 30-day प्रारंभिक hearing and then again by a local grand jury.
On December 28, 1881, Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by the outlaw cowboys, और on कूच 18, 1882, वे assassinated मॉर्गन earp.
The संदिग्धों सुसज्जित ठोस alibis, और newly नियुक्त डिप्टी u.s. मार्शल व्याट earp took matters into his own hands during the Earp Vendetta Ride, ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest.
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed वीडियो आंकड़ा और compressed/uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो आंकड़ा इससे a hdmi-compliant यंत्र ( `` the सोर्स यंत्र '' ) to a संगत कंप्यूटर मॉनिटर, वीडियो प्रोजेक्टर, डिजिटल टेलीविज़न, or digital audio device.
HDMI is a digital बदलना लिये मौजूदा एनालॉग वीडियो standards.
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable connectors available, each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format, including standard, उन्नत, ऊँची परिभाषा, और 3d वीडियो सिग्नल ; up to 8 चैनल्स of संपीडित or uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो ; a cec ( उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कंट्रोल ) कनेक्शन ; और an Ethernet data connection.
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards, which define video स्वरुप और waveforms, हस्तांतरण of संपीडित, uncompressed, और lpcm audio, auxiliary data, and implementations of the VESA EDID.
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each अन्य जब जरुरी और allows the उपयोक्ता to operate अनेक डिवाइस with one remote control handset.
Because HDMI is electrically संगत साथ the cea-861 सिग्नल प्रयुक्त by डिजिटल विज़ुअल इंटरफ़ेस ( dvi ), no signal conversion is necessary, nor is there a loss of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used.
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection, HDMI is independent of the various digital television मानकों प्रयुक्त by व्यक्तिगत डिवाइस, ऐसे as atsc और dvb, as ये हैं encapsulations of संपीडित एमपीईजी वीडियो स्ट्रीम ( जिससे can be decoded और आउटपुट as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ).
उत्पादन of उपभोक्ता hdmi उत्पाद प्रारंभ in late 2003.
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is शामिल in the hd तैयार in-store labeling specification लिये tv सेट लिये hdtv, प्रतिपादित by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005.
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV camcorders और डिजिटल स्टिल कैमरे in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, which is ten years after the release of the first HDMI specification, over 3 अरब hdmi डिवाइस have shipped चूंकि the लॉन्च of the hdmi मानक.
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also ज्ञात in the श्रेणी as ब्री होज और ब्री वेस्टन ) is a fictional अक्षर और एक of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives.
She is played by actress Marcia Cross, who has received multiple awards और nominations लिये उसके portrayal, सहित an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन, three Golden Globe Award nominations, and two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
Cross 's portrayal of ब्री रै महरूम widely praised by critics and fans.
Cross originally auditioned लिये the भूमिका of मरियम ऐलिस यंग, लकिन श्रेणी निर्माता मार्क चेरी thought she was better suited for the role of Bree.
Dana Delany, who eventually was cast as कैथरीन mayfair, थी originally चुनी लिये the भूमिका लकिन turned it bas, saying it थी too समान to her role in Pasadena.
Bree 's main struggle throughout the श्रेणी रै महरूम उसके कोशिशें to maintain a पूर्ण जीवन despite विभिन्न बाधाएं ऐसे as widowhood, divorce, and alcoholism hindering her.
She has been शादीशुदा तीन टाइम्स ; to रेक्स वैन de kamp ( स्टीवन culp ), orson होज ( काइल maclachlan ) और ट्रिप Weston ( Scott Bakula ).
See भी the कस्बा of algoma in winnebago County, Wisconsin.
See भी algoma ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Algoma is a city in Kewaunee काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन.
The population थी 3,167 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Algoma is भाग of the ग्रीन खाड़ी महानगर Statistical Area.
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 American comedy फिल्मी उत्पादित by legendary तस्वीरें और वितरित by warner भाईs. तस्वीरें.
It is the sequel to 2009 's the hangover और the दूसरी फिल्मी in the hangover मताधिकार.
Todd Phillips निर्देशित the फिल्मी in जोड to co-authoring the स्क्रिप्ट साथ क्रेग mazin, and Scot Armstrong.
The film stars Bradley कूपर, ed helms, zach galifianakis, केन jeong, जेफरी tambor, जस्टिन bartha और Paul Giamatti.
The Hangover Part II tells the story of फिल, stu, एलन, और डग as वे सफर to थाईलैंड लिये stu 's विवाह.
After the bachelor party in Las Vegas, Stu takes no chances and opts लिये a सुरक्षित, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do not go as नियोजित, resulting in another ख़राब hangover साथ no यादें of the previous night.
Development of The hangover भाग ii began in अप्रैल 2009, दो महीने पहले the hangover थी released.
the प्रिंसिपल अभिनेताओं यहूद डाल in कूच 2010 to reprise उनके भूमिकाएँ from the first film.
Production began in October 2010, in ओंटारियो, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, पहले चलती on स्थान in थाईलैंड.
The film थी released on may 26, 2011 और, despite receiving ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक reviews from critics, it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run.
A third फिल्मी is नियत लिये on may 24, 2013.
Young Man Among Roses, portrait miniature by निकोलस hilliard, 1588, V & A.
believed to be the अर्ल of Essex
The Ditchley Portrait of एलिज़ाबेथ i by the विदेशी मार्कस gheeraerts the Younger, c.1592
The English Renaissance थी a सांस्कृतिक और कलाकारी गति in इंग्लैण्ड डेटिंग from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century.
It is संबद्ध साथ the pan-european पुनर्जागरण that is usually regarded as beginning in Italy in the late 14th century.
Like most of northern यूरोपीय, इंग्लैण्ड देखी छोटी of ये developments जबतक अधिक than a century later.
The beginning of the अंग्रेज़ी पुनर्जागरण is प्रायः लिया, as a convenience, to be 1485, जब the बैटल of bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the Wars of the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty.
पुनर्जागरण स्टाइल और विचार, however, यहूद slow in penetrating इंग्लैण्ड, और the elizabethan era in the दूसरी हाफ of the 16th सदी is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance.
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer Warren `` Betty '' Ford ( April 8, 1918 – July 8, 2011 ), थी पहला महिला of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1974 to 1977 दौरान the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford.
As First Lady, वो थी क्रियाशील in सोशल नीति और निर्मित precedents as a politically active presidential wife.
Throughout her husband 's term in office, she कायम ऊँची स्वीकृति दरजा despite विपक्ष इससे कुछ रूढ़िवादी Republicans who objected to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues.
घाट थी विख्यात लिये उठाने स्तन कर्कट जागरूकता following उसके 1974 mastectomy और थी a passionate supporter of, and activist for, the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ).
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement, she gained fame as one of the most candid first ladies in इतिहास, commenting on प्रत्येक hot-button समस्या of the समय, सहित नारीवाद, बराबर अदा, the era, sex, drugs, abortion, and gun control.
वो भी उठाया जागरूकता of व्यसन जब she announced her long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s.
Following her White House years, she जारी to लॉबी लिये the era और remained क्रियाशील in the feminist गति.
She was the founder, and served as the first chair of the board of directors, of the बेट्टी घाट बीच लिये पदार्थ गाली और व्यसन और is a प्राप्तकर्ता of the congressional सुनहरा पदक ( co-presentation साथ her husband, Gerald R. Ford, October 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone, presented 1991, by George H. W. Bush ).
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( cd31 ) is a प्रोटीन कि in इंसान is एनकोडेड by the pecam1 जीन मिला on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a key भूमिका in निकालना aged neutrophils इससे the body.
Jessica rafalowski, मिस फ्लोरिडा USA 2008
जेन्ना एडवर्ड्स, मिस फ्लोरिडा USA 2007
Melissa Witek, मिस फ्लोरिडा USA 2005
क्रिस्टन berset, मिस फ्लोरिडा USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the प्रतिनिधि लिये the राज्य फ्लोरिडा in the मिस यूएसए pageant.
While Florida has been successful in terms of runners-up, finalists और semi-finalists, the राज्य रै never जीती the मिस यूएसए pageant, हालांकि चेरिल patton became मिस USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe.
फ्लोरिडा 's बेहतरीन परिणाम यहूद दौरान the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
Their most recent finalist was lissette गार्सिया जो लगाई in the शीर्ष 16 in 2011.
Two former Miss Florida टीन यूएसए titleholders have जीती इस प्रतियोगिता, और तीन titleholders have भी competed at Miss America.
The current titleholder is मिशेल aguirre of hialeah.
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became ज्ञात as इंग्लैण्ड, स्थायी इससे the समाप्त of रोमन occupation और स्थापना of anglo-saxon kingdoms in the 5th सदी जबतक the नॉर्मन conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror.
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples who आए to ब्रिटेन दौरान the 5th और 6th सदियां, सहित कोण, saxons, frisii, और jutes.
The term also refers to the भाषा बोला at the समय in इंग्लैण्ड, जिससे is अभी पुकारा बूढ़ा English, and to the culture of the era, which has long attracted popular and scholarly attention.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon इंग्लैण्ड थी वर्चस्व by the heptarchy, the kingdoms of नॉर्थम्ब्रिया, mercia, ईस्ट Anglia, Essex, Kent, Sussex, and Wessex.
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed anglo-saxon paganism दौरान the जल्दी काल, लकिन परिवर्तित to christianity दौरान the 7th century.
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of Mercian hegemony दौरान the 640s, समाप्ति साथ the मौत of पेंदा of mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of Viking invasions, the House of Wessex became प्रबल दौरान the 9th सदी, अंतर्गत the नियम of अल्फ्रेड the ग्रेट.
During the 10th century, the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of Wessex into the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड, जिससे stood opposed to the danelaw, the viking kingdoms स्थापित इससे the 9th century in the north and east of England.
The Kingdom of England fell in the viking आक्रमण इससे डेनमार्क in 1013 और थी शासित by the हाउस of डेनमार्क जबतक 1042, when the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored.
the पिछला anglo-saxon किंग, हेरोल्ड godwinson, थी killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings.
Lighting a परंपरागत रेड ईंटों जॉन रॉस Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation of salmon, typically a fillet कि रै महरूम cured और hot or cold smoked.
due to इसके मध्यम ऊँची दाम, smoked salmon is considered a delicacy.
Although the term lox is sometimes लागू to स्मोक्ड सामन, वे हैं अलग उत्पाद.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति और placement.
defibrillation is a आम उपचार लिये life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of विद्युत उर्जा to the प्रभावित heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the दिल मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, और allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be बाह्य, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed.
Some external units, ज्ञात as स्वचालित बाह्य defibrillators ( aeds ), automate the निदान of treatable लय, अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some cases no training at all.
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August 19, 1883 – January 10, 1971 ) थी a फ्रेंच फ़ैशन पंक्तियां और संस्थापक of the चैनल brand.
She थी the तभी फ़ैशन पंक्तियां to appear on समय पत्रिका 's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.
Along with Paul Poiret, Chanel was credited with liberating महिलाओं इससे the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' और popularizing the स्वीकृति of a sportive, कैज़ुअल चिक as the feminine मानक in the post- संसार युद्ध i era.
A prolific fashion creator, चैनल 's influence विस्तारित परे couture कपडे.
Her design aesthetic was realized in आभूषण, हैंडबैग, और महक.
Her हस्ताक्षर सैंट, चैनल no. 5, रै become an iconic product.
Chanel was known for her lifelong determination, महत्वाकांक्षा और उर्जा जिससे वो लागू to उसके पेशेवर and social life.
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social prominence धन्यवाद to the कनेक्शन्स वो बना through उसके कार्य.
These included many artists और craftspeople to जिसको वो became a patron.
However, Chanel 's अत्यधिक प्रतिस्पर्धी, opportunistic व्यक्तित्व led उसके to मेक questionable जीवन चुनाव जिससे have उत्पन्न विवाद around उसके प्रतिष्ठा, विशेषकर उसके आचरण दौरान the German occupation of France in World War II.
अलाइड मिलों आटा मिल on the बैंको of the मैनचेस्टर Ship Canal
A gristmill ( also : grist मिल, मकई मिल or आटा मिल ) grinds grain into flour.
The पद can refer to दोनो the पीस यांत्रिकी and the building that holds it.
Romania ( ; dated spellings roumania और rumania ; ) is a देश स्तिथ at the चौराहे of सेंट्रल और southeastern यूरोपीय, bordering on the Black Sea.
Romania shares a border with हंगेरियाई और सर्बिया to the वेस्ट, युक्त और moldova to the northeast and east, and Bulgaria to the south.
At, Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union by area, और रै the सातवाँ largest जनसांख्यिकी of the यूरोपीय संघ साथ अधिक than 19 million people.
Its पूंजी और biggest नगर is बुखारेस्ट, the 11th largest नगर in the EU.
The संयुक्त principalities उभरा जब the territories of moldavia और wallachia were united under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859.
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the throne as the सत्ताधारी प्रिंस of the रोमानियाई principate और in 1881 he थी आखिरकार पहनाया as किंग कैरोल i the पहला monarch of the Kingdom of Romania.
Independence from the Ottoman साम्राज्य थी घोषित on 9 may 1877, और थी internationally recognized the following year.
At the end of संसार युद्ध i, transylvania, bukovina और bessarabia संयुक्त with the Kingdom of Romania.
World War II gave cause to the वृद्धि of a सैन्य तानाशाही in रोमानिया अंतर्गत फासिस्ट सामान्य आयन antonescu, जो chose to लड़ो on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944.
After his removal, रोमानिया switched पहलू in 1944 और joined the allies.
By the end of the war, कुछ formerly रोमानियाई northeastern territories यहूद occupied by the सोवियत संघ, साथ रेड फौज इकाई stationed on Romanian soil.
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a लोगों 's गणतंत्र ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the Warsaw Pact.
In 1965 Nicolae ceauşescu became सामान्य सचिव of the रोमानियाई कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी, और the हर्ष austerity उपायों, राजनैतिक repression, and cult of personality he implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc.
Eventually his सत्तावादी सरकारी थी toppled in दिसम्बर 1989 दौरान the Romanian Revolution of 1989.
With the fall of the Iron Curtain, Romania began its परिवर्तन towards लोकतंत्र और a पूंजीवादी मार्केट अर्थव्यवस्था.
After a decade of post-revolution आर्थिक समस्याएं और living-standards मनाही, extensive reforms fostered economic recovery.
As of 2010, रोमानिया is an upper-middle-income देश साथ a high human development index.
Romania joined नाटो on 29 कूच 2004, और the यूरोपीय संघ on 1 जनवरी 2007.
It is also a member of the : लैटिन संघ, francophonie, osce, wto, bsec, संयुक्त Nations, etc.
आज, रोमानिया is a एकात्मक semi-presidential गणतंत्र, in जिससे the कार्यपालिका शाखा consists of the President and the Government.
`` Ancient '' redirects यहाँ.
For other uses, देखिए प्राचीनता ( बहुविकल्पी ).
The times पहले लिखने belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
Khafre 's Pyramid ( 4th dynasty ) and ग्रेट sphinx of गीज़ा ( c. 2500 bc or शायद earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the लिखा पास्ट इससे the शुरूआत of अंकित इंसान इतिहास to the Early Middle Ages.
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years, साथ cuneiform स्क्रिप्ट, the oldest खोजा रूप of सुसंगत लिखने, इससे the protoliterate काल around the 30th century BC.
इस is the शुरूआत of इतिहास, as opposed to प्रागितिहास, according to the definition used by most historians.
the पद शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to इतिहास in the बूढ़ा World from the beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ).
This roughly coincides with the traditional date of the founding of रोम in 753 bc, the शुरूआत of the इतिहास of प्राचीन रोम, और the शुरूआत of the archaic काल in Ancient Greece.
हालांकि the समाप्ति तिथि of प्राचीन इतिहास is विवादित, कुछ पश्चिमी विद्वानों उपयोग the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in 476 ad, the closure of the platonic अकादमी in 529 ad, the मौत of the emperor Justinian I, the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history.
In इण्डिया, the काल शामिल the जल्दी काल of the मध्य kingdoms, और, in चीन, the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included.
methylcobalamin ( दिखाया ) is a रूप of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the अन्य फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन b12, occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals कि freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin b-12, भी पुकारा cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
It is one of the आठ B vitamins.
It is normally involved in the चयापचय of प्रत्येक कोशिका of the इंसान देह, विशेषकर affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण and regulation, but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor पशु हैं सक्षम of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the एंजाइमों जरूरी लिये इसके संश्लेषण, हालांकि अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated विटामिन और can be उत्पादित industrially तभी through बैक्टीरियल fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
it contains the biochemically rare element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन परिवर्तन between अलग फ़ॉर्म of the विटामिन can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic रूप of the विटामिन, cyanocobalamin, करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति, लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ and supplements, and as a food additive, because of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the इंसान physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving पीछे the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
the अतिरिक्त यूटिलिटी of ये is currently debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the बीमारी घातक रक्ताल्पता, जिससे is an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the पेट जिम्मेदार लिये secreting मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर are destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the सामान्य अवशोषण of b12, so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर, as देखी in घातक anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of विटामिन b12 कमियां और उनके biochemical प्रभाव have चूंकि been elucidated.
The Roman Empire ( ) थी the post- रिपब्लिकन काल of the प्राचीन रोमन सभ्यता, characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, था महरूम destabilized through a श्रेणी of सिविल wars.
Several events marked the परिवर्तन इससे गणतंत्र to साम्राज्य, सहित जूलियस सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc ) ; the बैटल of actium ( 31 bc ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability और समृद्धि ज्ञात as the pax romana ( `` रोमन सलाम '' ).
It reached its greatest expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of त्राजान ( 98–117 ad ).
In the 3rd सदी, the साम्राज्य underwent a संकट कि threatened इसके अस्तित्व, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th सदी, दौरान जिससे समय a प्रणाली of डुअल नियम थी विकसित in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the वेस्ट in the 5th सदी, the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as कया होता बाद be ज्ञात as the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound और स्थायी influence on the विकास of भाषा, धर्म, वास्तुकला, दर्शनशास्त्र, विधि, और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed, विशेषकर Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total body surface area ( TBSA ) is an मूल्यांकन माप of burns of the स्किन.
In वयस्कों, the `` नियम of nines '' is प्रयुक्त to determine the कुल प्रतिशत of area burned for each major section of the body.
In some cases, the burns may cover more than one body part, or may not fully cover such a part ; in these cases, burns हैं measured by using the casualty 's ताड़ as a सन्दर्भ पाइंट लिये 1 % of the देह.
For children and infants, the lund-browder चार्ट is प्रयुक्त to assess the burned देह surface area.
Different percentages are used क्युकी the अनुपात of the संयुक्त सतह क्षेत्रफल of the सिर और गर्दन to the सतह क्षेत्रफल of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an adult.
ठेठ मान लिये आम समूह of इंसानो follow.
( due to rounding, values may not add to 100 %. )
World infant मृत्यु दरों by पाँच सालो averages in 2008.
This is a list of देशों by शिशु मृत्यु rate.
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26, 1975 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम kj-52, is a ईसाई rapper from Tampa, Florida.
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old रैप alias, `` किंग J. मैक, '' a नाम जिससे he बाद वर्णित in one of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` five two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude साथ पाँच loaves और दो मछली, जिससे is भी सुंग परिचय in उसके सोंग `` धक्का up '' इससे the yearbook और in the `` kj पाँच दो '' on it 's सुनाया 'five दो.
He was awarded the rap/hip हॉप अंकित सोंग of the साल लिये `` never dekh दूर '' और rap/hip Hop Album of the Year at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007.
On July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` समाप्त of my रस्सी '', जिससे is the पहला सिंगल लिये उसके एल्बम five-two टेलीविज़न.
His song `` Dear Slim '' is आधारित on एमिनेम 's सोंग `` स्टेन `` और is a sort of निजी message from KJ-52 to Eminem.
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical प्रतीक कि is प्रयुक्त, among अन्य बाते, to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g. in भौगोलिक निर्देशांक प्रणालियों ), घंटों ( in the medical field ), or degrees of temperature.
The symbol consists of a छोटी उठाया वृत्त, historically a शून्य glyph.
In Unicode it is एनकोडेड at.
This is a list of roots, suffixes, and prefixes used in चिकित्सा शब्दावली, उनके meanings, और उनके etymology.
There are a few नियम जब using चिकित्सा roots.
Firstly, prefixes और प्रत्यय, primarily in यूनानी, लकिन भी in लैटिन, have a droppable -o-.
As a general rule, this -o- almost सदा अधिनियमों as a joint-stem to कनेक्ट दो consonantal जड़ें, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = गठिया, बजाय of arthr-o-itis.
Secondly, medical roots generally go साथ according to भाषा : यूनानी prefixes go साथ यूनानी प्रत्यय और लैटिन prefixes with Latin suffixes.
Although international scientific vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining फ़ॉर्म of अलग भाषाएं, it is advisable जब coining नई शब्द नहीं to मिक्सर अलग lingual roots.
Stomach cancer, or gastric कर्कट, refers to कर्कट arising इससे any part of the stomach.
Stomach कर्कट कल्याणकारी परिचय 800,000 मौतों worldwide per year.
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) क्युकी सबसे मरीजों उपस्थित साथ उन्नत disease.
सारा lynn इवांस ( born फ़रवरी 5, 1971 ) is an American country singer and songwriter.
For her entire career, वो रै महरूम हस्ताक्षरित to आरसीए रिकॉर्ड नैशविले.
इवांस ' डेब्यू, तीन मदारी और the सच्चाई, किया नहीं produce a Top 40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts.
She followed this up with No Place That Far ( 1998 ), Born to मक्खी ( 2000 ), बेचैन ( 2003 ) और रियल ठीक प्लेस ( 2005 ).
No Place That Far received a gold certification from the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ), जबकि the अन्य तीन एल्बम सब यहूद certified प्लेटिनम.
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place That Far ``, `` born to मक्खी ``, `` suds in the बाल्टी `` और `` a रियल ठीक प्लेस to प्रारंभ ``, प्लस the शीर्ष 10 हिट्स `` i could नहीं Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ), `` I Keep Looking ``, `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the top 15 hits `` तुम 'll सदा be my baby `` और `` as if ``.
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit, `` A छोटी बिट stronger ``, जिससे थी co-written by हिलेरी स्कॉट of Lady Antebellum.
Evans has also won one पुरस्कार प्रत्येक इससे बिलबोर्ड, the अकादमी of देश म्यूज़िक, देश म्यूज़िक संघ, Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award.
The world 's principal religions and spiritual traditions may be वर्गीकृत into a छोटी क्रमांक of प्रमुख समूह, हालांकि इस is by no अर्थात् a वर्दी practice.
This सिद्धान्त began in the 18th सदी साथ the लक्ष्य of recognizing the सापेक्ष levels of civility in societies.
Berliners watching a c-54 जमीन at tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin नाकेबंदी ( 24 जून 1948 – 12 may 1949 ) थी एक of the पहला प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय crises of the Cold War.
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany, the Soviet संघ अवरोधित the पश्चिमी allies ' रेल, सड़क, और कनाल अभिगम to the सेक्टर of Berlin under Allied control.
Their aim was to force the पश्चिमी शक्तियां to allow the सोवियत मण्डल to प्रारंभ supplying बर्लिन साथ खाना और ईंधन, thereby giving the Soviets practical control over the entire city.
In जवाब, the पश्चिमी allies व्यवस्थित the बर्लिन एयरलिफ्ट to carry supplies to the people in West Berlin.
Aircrews from the United States Air Force, the British Royal Air Force, the Royal Australian Air Force, the Royal Canadian Air Force, the Royal New Zealand Air Force, and the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी एयर फ़ोर्स उड़ाया over 200,000 फ़्लाइट in एक साल, providing up to 4700 टन of रोज़ necessities ऐसे as ईंधन और खाना to the berliners.
By the spring of 1949, the effort was clearly succeeding और, by अप्रैल, the एयरलिफ्ट थी delivering अधिक कार्गो than था previously महरूम transported into the city by rail.
The कामयाबी of the बर्लिन एयरलिफ्ट brought शर्मिंदगी to the soviets जो had refused to believe it could make a difference.
The blockade was lifted in may 1949 और resulted in the सृष्टि of दो separate German states.
the संघीय गणतंत्र of जर्मनी ( वेस्ट जर्मनी ) and the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin.
In remembrance of the airlift, three एयरपोर्ट in the पूर्व पश्चिमी zones of the नगर परोसा as the प्राथमिक gateways to Germany for another fifty years.
The euro चिह्न ; logotype और handwritten.
The euro sign is the currency sign used for the euro, the आधिकारिक करेंसी of the eurozone in the यूरोपीय Union ( EU ).
The design was प्रस्तुत to the पब्लिक by the यूरोपीय Commission on 12 December 1996.
The international three-letter कोड ( according to आईएसओ मानक आईएसओ 4217 ) लिये the euro is EUR.
In युनिकोड it is encoded at.
In English, the चिह्न precedes the value.
In कुछ styleguides, लकिन नहीं अन्य, the यूरोपियन चिह्न is unspaced.
Mate (, ; sometimes भी spelled maté ), भी ज्ञात as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a परंपरागत दक्षिण अमरीकी infused पेय, विशेषकर in अर्जेंटीना, उरुग्वे, पैराग्वे and the southern states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile, the Bolivian Chaco, Syria and Lebanon.
It is prepared from steeping सूखी पत्ते of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, ज्ञात in पुर्तगाली as erva-mate ) in hot water.
Mate is served with a मेटल स्ट्रॉ इससे a साझा खोखला calabash gourd.
The straw is called a bombilla in some लैटिन अमरीकी देशों, a bomba in पुर्तगाली, और a bombija or, अधिक generally, a masassa ( प्रकार of स्ट्रॉ ) in Arabic.
the स्ट्रॉ is traditionally made of silver.
Modern, commercially उपलब्धियाँ लोभी हैं typically बना of निकल silver, called Alpaca ; stainless steel, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; जबकि in ब्राज़ील, it रै the विशिष्ट नाम of cuia, or भी cabaça ( the नाम लिये indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of Brazil, still used for general food and drink in remote regions ).
भी if the जल is supplied इससे a आधुनिक thermos, the infusion is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias.
As with other brewed herbs, yerba mate पत्ते हैं सूखी, कटा, और मैदान into a powdery mixture called yerba.
The bombilla अधिनियमों as दोनो a स्ट्रॉ और a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, with small holes or स्लॉट कि allow the brewed द्रव in, लकिन ब्लाक the चंकी पदार्थ कि makes up much of the mixture.
A modern bombilla डिज़ाइन उपयोग a सीधा ट्यूब साथ छेद, or वसन्त sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have महरूम on the मार्केट in अर्जेंटीना, पैराग्वे और उरुग्वे लिये अनेक सालो अंतर्गत ऐसे व्यापार names as `` taragüí vitality '' in अर्जेंटीना, `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay, and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão ''.
This is considered a completely अलग पेय.
It is never drunk from cuias or called chimarrão, nor is it संबद्ध साथ the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
The automotive industry is a term that कवर a चौड़ी दायरा of कंपनियाँ और संगठनों शामिल in the डिज़ाइन, विकास, manufacture, विपणन, और selling of motor vehicles, towed vehicles, motorcycles and mopeds.
It is एक of the संसार 's सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आर्थिक sectors by revenue.
The term automotive industry प्रायः करता नहीं शामिल उद्योग समर्पित to the मेंटेनेंस of ऑटोमोबाइल following डिलीवरी to the end-user, such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations.
The term ऑटोमोटिव थी निर्मित इससे यूनानी autos ( स्वः ), और लैटिन motivus ( of गति ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle.
This पद थी प्रस्तावित by sae सदस्य Elmer Sperry.
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista, jr. ( born जनवरी 18, 1969 ), is an अमरीकी मिश्रित martial कलाकार, bodybuilder, कर्ता, और पूर्व पेशेवर पहलवान बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये his time in World Wrestling Entertainment competing under the ring name Batista.
In WWE, he became a six-time world champion, जीतना the संसार हेवीवेट चैंपियनशिप चार टाइम्स, और the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई चैंपियनशिप दो times.
he is the longest-reigning संसार हेवीवेट Champion in WWE history.
In addition to these championships, Batista has won the World Tag Team चैंपियनशिप तीन टाइम्स ( twice साथ ric फ्लेयर और एकबार साथ जॉन सीना ) और the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई टैग टोली चैंपियनशिप एकबार ( साथ rey मिस्टीरियो ).
बतिस्ता थी भी the विजेता of the 2005 royal rumble मैच और गई on to शीर्षक रेसलमेनिया 21, एक of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant, Batista signed a contract with the WWF in 2000 और थी भेजा to इसके developmental territory, ओहियो घाटी कुश्ती ( ovw ), जहाँ he जीती the ovw हेवीवेट चैंपियनशिप.
In August 2012, Bautista signed a contract with क्लासिक entertainment & खेल to लड़ो in मिश्रित martial arts.
He won his MMA debut on अक्तूबर 6, 2012, defeating विंस lucero via tko in the first round.
Henry T. Thomas Sampson, Jr. ( born in जैक्सन, मिसिसिपी in 1934 ) is an african-american आविष्कारक.
He graduated from ऊँची स्कूल in 1951 इससे lanier ऊँची स्कूल in जैक्सन, Mississippi.
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years before transferring to purdue विश्वविद्यालयों जहाँ he became a सदस्य of the ओमेगा psi फाई बिरादरी.
He received a Bachelor 's उपाधि in विज्ञान इससे purdue विश्वविद्यालयों in 1956.
He graduated with an MS degree in अभियान्त्रिकी इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Los Angeles in 1961.
sampson भी प्राप्त उसके ms in नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965, and his PhD in 1967.
He is the first African अमरीकी to earn a ph.d.in नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Some of his accomplishments include होने a सदस्य of the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी between the सालो 1962 और 1964 और कमाई an परमाणु Energy Commission honor between 1964 and 1967.
Later he was awarded the ब्लैक चित्र पुरस्कार इससे aerospace निगम in 1982.
He was awarded the Blacks in Engineering, Applied Science Award, और पुरस्कार लिये शिक्षा, by the लॉस एंजिल्स परिषद of ब्लैक पेशेवर इंजीनियर्स in 1983.
In June 2007, Sampson was शादीशुदा to लौरा howzell यंग in st. थामस, u.S. वर्जिन Islands.
young-sampson is a प्राध्यापक in the कॉलेज of शिक्षा at California State University San Bernardino.
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a वरिष्ठ अभियान adviser लिये us अध्यक्ष Barack Obama.
previously, he थी the 28th White House Press Secretary.
Gibbs was the संचार निदेशक लिये then- u.s. सीनेटर ओबामा और उसके 2008 presidential campaign.
Gibbs, who has worked with Obama since 2004, was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in Senate campaigns, having served as communications निदेशक लिये the लोकतांत्रिक senatorial अभियान कमेटी और लिये चार व्यक्तिगत सीनेट अभियान, सहित those of ओबामा in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998.
Gibbs was also the दबायें सचिव of प्रतिनिधि bob etheridge.
On November 22, 2008, Gibbs was घोषित as the दबायें सचिव of the ओबामा प्रशासन.
He assumed the भूमिका of दबायें सचिव on जनवरी 20, 2009, और दिया उसके पहला official briefing on January 22.
On January 5, 2011, गिब्स घोषित कि he होता छोड़ the श्वेत हाउस to become an बाहर adviser to the administration.
He बाएँ on फ़रवरी 11, 2011.
On February 12, 2013, it was announced that Gibbs had been नियुक्त as a योगदानकर्ता लिये cable-news चैनल एमएसएनबीसी.
His first appearance was on the वही रात्रि prior to the 2013 राज्य of the संघ पता.
Armando Pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम pitbull, is an अमरीकी rapper, songwriter, and record producer.
His first recorded प्रदर्शन थी इससे the लील jon एल्बम किंग्स of crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released his debut album titled m.i.a.m.i. ( छोटी लिये धन is a प्रमुख समस्या ) अंतर्गत tvt Records.
Since then, he has released three अन्य एल्बम अंतर्गत the लेबल : el mariel in 2006, the boatlift in 2007, और ग्रह Pit in 2011.
He released Rebelution in 2009, जिससे शामिल singles `` i जान तुम want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy ``.
The latter peaked at No. 30 on the Hot 100 and No. 11 on the Hot Rap ट्रैक्स चार्ट जबकि `` i जान तुम want me '' peaked at no. 2 on the hot 100 और peaked भीतर the शीर्ष टेन धब्बे of चार्ट in the uk, कनाडा, इटली, और the Netherlands.
The song reached No. 1 in फ़्रांस और the यूरोपीय hot 100 on the सप्ताह समाप्ति अगस्त 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
He later signed with Polo grounds म्यूज़िक through सोनी म्यूज़िक और निर्मित his own label Mr. 305 Inc.
Another सिंगल इससे rebelution थी `` होटल रूम सेवा ``, जिससे peaked at No. 8 on the Hot 100.
Rebelution went on to sell over 7.5 लाख विश्वव्यापी डिजिटल singles और एल्बम संयुक्त.
Nevertheless, he dropped a smash called `` दे me सबकुछ '' जिससे पहुँचे # 1 विश्वव्यापी, और प्रदर्शित artists Ne-yo, Nayer, and Afrojack.
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit songs, जैसे tik टोक, चीख & चिल्लाओ, lo hecho esta hecho, ख़राब, papi, ईंट, कैसा कम, tonight ( i 'm lovin ' तुम ), वीडियो फोन, over to तुम अभी and Bumpy Ride.
Pérez is also the मेजबान of उसके अपना spanish-language कार्यक्रम on the केबल channel Mun2 titled La Esquina ( Spanish for The Corner ).
In 2005 pérez और rapper शॉन 'diddy ' combs co-founded ख़राब लड़के लातीनी, a subsidiary of combs ' Bad Boy Records label.
It primarily focuses on लैटिन हिप हॉप, लैटिन आत्मा, लैटिन पॉप और अन्य तीव्र म्यूज़िक, और रै कार्यालयों in New York and Miami, Florida.
Along साथ co-founding it, pérez फिलहाल heads the A & R division of the label.
Pérez has become a product endorser, representing alongside Drake, Rihanna, and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak ब्रांड और embarking on a साझेदारी साथ the नरम पेय दानव dr pepper as भाग of the अभियान “ विदा 23 ” लिये जिससे he अंकित the सोंग specifically प्रदर्शित on उसके एल्बम Armando.
Pitbull also announced he has become the spokesperson for voli वोदका, in जिससे he holds a बहुमत इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी, और budweiser रै चुनी pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer.
the commercials फिलहाल हाइलाइट pitbull नाचना और gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of Bud Light.
Pitbull has भी खरीदा an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in मियामी subs पिज़्ज़ा and Grill.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' संध्या `` ), भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर 31, the संध्या of the पश्चिमी Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार, और त्यौहार of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other विद्वानों maintain कि it originated independently of samhain और रै solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित वेशभूषा पार्टियों, नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, ठहराना bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's राय और विचार using एक 's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but शामिल कोई अधिनियम of seeking, receiving और imparting सूचना or विचार, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं, as साथ मानहानि, बदनामी, obscenity, राजद्रोह ( सहित, लिये उदाहरण inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of information that is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of expression is पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों विधि in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वचन on सिविल and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR राज्य कि `` [ e ] veryone shall have the सही to थाम राय बगैर हस्तक्षेप '' और `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस सही shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to तलाश, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of नेशनल सुरक्षा or of पब्लिक order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of वाक may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक विधिक प्रणालियों और in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions जहाँ it is found to cause religious offense, such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
Sydney Harbour from the air, showing the Opera House, the CBD, गोलाकार quay, the सेतु, the parramatta नदी, उत्तर सिडनी और kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge आरपार सिडनी harbour कि carries रेल, vehicular, सायकिल और पैदल ट्रैफ़िक between the सिडनी सेंट्रल business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore.
The dramatic view of the bridge, the harbour, and the आसपास सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस is an iconic चित्र of सिडनी, नई दक्षिण Wales, and Australia.
The bridge is nicknamed `` the coathanger '' क्युकी of इसके arch-based design.
Under the directions of Dr j.j.c. bradfield of the nsw विभाग of पब्लिक works, the सेतु थी designed और निर्मित by अंग्रेजों firm Dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932.
The सेतु 's डिज़ाइन थी बहकावे by the नरक फाटक Bridge in New York.
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge, at 48.8 मीटर ( 160 फीट ) चौड़ी, जबतक निर्माण of the new Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver.
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch सेतु in the संसार, और it is the tallest स्टील मेहराब bridge, measuring from top to water level.
जबतक 1967 the harbour सेतु थी सिडनी 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic हॉटस्पॉट स्तिथ निकट the namesake हवाई Islands, in the northern Pacific Ocean.
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world, the Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation of the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount कड़ी, an over 5,800 किलोमीटर ( 3,600 mi ) long कड़ी of ज्वालामुखी, चार of जिससे हैं क्रियाशील, दो of जिससे हैं dormant, और अधिक than 123 of जिससे हैं विलुप्त, अनेक having चूंकि महरूम मैदान beneath the लहरें by erosion as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends from south of the island of Hawaii to the किनारे of the aleutian गर्त, निकट the पूर्वी किनारे of रूस.
While सबसे ज्वालामुखी हैं निर्मित by geological कार्यकलाप at tectonic थाली सीमाएँ, the हवाई हॉटस्पॉट is स्तिथ दूर इससे आसपास थाली सीमाएँ ; the क्लासिक हॉटस्पॉट सिद्धान्त, पहला प्रस्तावित in 1963 by जॉन tuzo विल्सन, proposes कि a सिंगल, फिक्स्ड mantle plume builds ज्वालामुखी कि तब, काटें off from their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate, become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years.
According to this theory, the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and हवाई खण्ड of the कड़ी थी caused by a अचानक शिफ़्ट in the गति of the प्रशांत Plate.
In 2003, भैस investigations of इस irregularity led to the प्रस्ताव of a मोबाईल हॉटस्पॉट सिद्धान्त, suggesting कि हॉटस्पॉट हैं मोबाईल, नहीं fixed, and that the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's.
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing आयु और weathered राज्य of the ज्वालामुखी to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands.
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and their निरंतर बैटल साथ the समुद्र थी a प्रमुख तत्व in हवाई mythology, embodied in Pele, the deity of volcanoes.
After the arrival of Europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 जेम्स ड्वाइट दाना निर्देशित the पहला औपचारिक geological पढ़ाई of the हॉटस्पॉट 's volcanics, confirming the संबंध long observed by the natives.
1912 चिह्नित the founding of the हवाई ज्वालामुखी वेधशाला by volcanologist थामस jaggar, initiating continuous scientific observation of the islands.
In the 1970s, a मानचित्रण प्रोजेक्ट थी initiated to लाभ अधिक सूचना about the complex geology of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged, showing it to be wide and up to गहन, और ओलीवाइन और गार्नेट -आधारd अध्ययन have दिखाया इसके मैग्मा कक्ष is लगभग.
In इसके at तनिक 85 लाख सालो of कार्यकलाप the hotspot has produced an estimated of rock.
The chain 's rate of drift रै धीरे increased over समय, causing the राशि of समय प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत ज्वालामुखी is क्रियाशील to घटी, इससे 18 लाख सालो लिये the 76 लाख साल बूढ़ा डेट्रॉयट seamount, to बस अंतर्गत 900,000 लिये the एक million year-old Kohala ; on the other hand, eruptive volume has increased from per year to about.
Overall, this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas ज्वालामुखी on the निकट पक्ष of the हॉटस्पॉट ओवरलैप प्रत्येक अन्य ( forming ऐसे superstructures as हवाई द्वीप और the प्राचीन मावी नुई ), the oldest of the सम्राट seamounts are spaced as far as apart.
David Palmer, director of the दिखाएँ, घोषित कि the ऋतु 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show.
Petitions are being signed to लाओ the दिखाएँ लिये a पांचवां ऋतु.
The दिखाएँ airs on treehouse tv कनाडा और उपनाम jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film directed by Martin Davidson साथ the पटकथा लिखा by the निदेशक और arlene डेविडसन, आधारित on the novel by P. F. Kluge.
It was marketed साथ the टैगलाइन `` Rebel.
रॉकर.
प्रेमी.
आइडल.
vanished. ''
osteonecrosis of the जबड़ों ( onj ) is a कठोर अस्थि बीमारी कि affects the maxilla and the mandible.
Various forms of ONJ have महरूम वर्णित over the पिछला 160 सालो, और a क्रमांक of कल्याणकारी have महरूम सुझाया in the literature.
osteonecrosis of the जबड़े संबद्ध साथ bisphosphonate चिकित्सा, जरूरी by कुछ कर्कट उपचार regimens, रै been identified and defined as a pathological entity since 2003.
The possible risk इससे निम्नतर मौखिक doses of bisphosphonates, लिया by मरीजों to prevent or treat osteoporosis, remains uncertain.
Various treatment options have महरूम छान, however कठोर मामले of onj स्टिल आवश्यकता surgical removal of the affected bone.
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing प्रणालीगत समस्याएं और संभावित साइट of दंत संक्रमण हैं जरूरी to help prevent the condition, especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered.
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, और a सदस्य of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's अमरीकी लीग पूर्वी प्रभाग.
Founded in as one of the American लीग 's आठ चार्टर franchises, the रेड sox 's घर ballpark रै महरूम fenway पार्क since.
the `` रेड sox '' नाम थी चुनी by the टोली मालिक, जॉन I. टेलर, around, following previous Boston teams that had been known as the `` Red Stockings ``.
They have played in 11 संसार श्रेणी, जीतना 7.
Boston was a प्रबल टोली in the नई लीग, defeating the पिट्सबर्ग Pirates in the first World Series in and winning four more championships by.
However, they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history, called by कुछ the `` अभिशाप of the bambino `` बाद इसके कथित शुरूआत साथ the रेड sox 's बिक्री of बेब रुथ to the प्रतिद्वंद्वी यांकीज़ दो सालो बाद उनके संसार चैंपियनशिप in 1918, an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in.
However, the टोली 's इतिहास दौरान कि काल थी hardly एक of futility, लकिन थी बल्कि punctuated साथ कुछ of the सबसे यादगार पल in संसार श्रेणी इतिहास, सहित enos वध 's `` mad dash `` in, the `` Impossible Dream `` of, Carlton Fisk 's home run in, and Bill Buckner 's error in.
Red Sox history has also been marked by the team 's intense rivalry with the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़, arguably the fiercest और सबसे ऐतिहासिक in उत्तर अमरीकी पेशेवर खेल.
The Boston Red Sox are owned by Fenway खेल समूह, जो भी अपना लिवरपूल फ़ुटबॉल क्लबों of the Premier League in England.
The Red Sox are consistently one of the शीर्ष एमएलबी टीमों in औसत सड़क उपस्थिति, जबकि the छोटी क्षमता of fenway पार्क रोकता उन्हें इससे अग्रणी in overall attendance.
From May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular ऋतु ) लिये a प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल रिकार्ड कि lasted लगभग a दशक.
mince पाई भर साथ mincemeat
mincemeat is a मिश्रण of कटा सूखी फल, आसुत आत्माओं और मसाले, and sometimes beef suet, beef, or venison.
Originally, mincemeat सदा contained meat.
Many modern recipes contain बीफ suet, हालांकि सब्ज़ी shortening is sometimes used in its place.
Variants of mincemeat are मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ब्रिटनी, कनाडा, उत्तरी यूरोपीय, आयरलैंड, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In some countries the term mincemeat refers to minced or मैदान meat.
Diana, Princess of Wales ( Diana frances ; née स्पेंसर ; 1 जुलाई 1961 – 31 अगस्त 1997 ) थी the पहला बीवी of चार्ल्स, Prince of Wales, the eldest son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II.
She was खूब ज्ञात लिये उसके fund-raising कार्य लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय धर्मार्थ और as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century.
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 July 1981 थी आयोजित at st पॉल 's गिरजाघर और देखी by a वैश्विक टेलीविज़न दर्शक of over 750 million.
जबकि शादीशुदा वो bore the शीर्षक राजकुमारी of वेल्स, duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, duchess of Rothesay, Countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew.
The marriage produced two sons, the princes विलियम और हैरी, जो became दूसरी और तीसरा in लकीर to the British throne.
डायना थी born into an वैभवशाली अंग्रेज़ी family with royal ancestry.
She was the fourth child of John Spencer, 8th अर्ल स्पेंसर और उसके बीवी frances, बेटी of मौरिस रोश, 4th Baron Fermoy.
She became a पब्लिक फिगर साथ the घोषणा of her engagement.
She भी प्राप्त मान्यता लिये उसके दान कार्य और लिये उसके support of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Campaign to Ban Landmines.
From 1989, she was the president of the ग्रेट ormond गली हॉस्पिटल लिये children, in जोड to dozens of other charities.
Diana remained the ऑब्जेक्ट of विश्वव्यापी मीडिया scrutiny दौरान और बाद उसके विवाह, जिससे ended in divorce on 28 August 1996.
मीडिया ध्यान और पब्लिक शोक यहूद considerable following उसके मौत in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997.
Argentina, officially the Argentine Republic ( ), is the दूसरी largest देश in दोनो दक्षिण अमेरिका और the लैटिन अमेरिका region.
The country is a federation of 23 provinces और the autonomous नगर of buenos आयर्स, इसके पूंजी और largest city.
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by जमीन क्षेत्रफल और the largest among spanish-speaking राष्ट्र by भौगोलिक क्षेत्रफल of 2,780,400 km2 और is the fourth by population, with over 41 million people.
अर्जेंटीना is a founding सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, mercosur, the संघ of दक्षिण अमरीकी राष्ट्र, the संगठन of ibero-american राज्य, the संसार बैंको Group and the World Trade Organization, and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in South America, bordered by चिली to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण, बोलीविया और पैराग्वे to the उत्तर और ब्राज़ील and Uruguay to the northeast.
Argentina दावा प्रभुता over भाग of अंटार्कटिक, the फ़ॉकलैंड आइलैंड्स ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor state of the viceroyalty of the río de la प्लाटा, an विदेशी उपनिवेश of the स्पेनी Empire.
Argentina declared independence during the अर्जेंटाइन युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, जिससे थी followed by the अर्जेंटाइन Civil Wars during most of the 19th century.
The country faced अनेक सैन्य coups और राजनैतिक अस्थिरता दौरान the 20th सदी, along with periodic economic crisis that continue to this day.
A recognized Southern Cone power, and middle power, Argentina is Latin अमेरिका 's third-largest अर्थव्यवस्था, साथ a `` बहुत ऊँची '' दरजा on the Human development index.
Within Latin America, Argentina has the पांचवां उच्चतम नाममात्र जीडीपी प्रति capita और the उच्चतम in purchasing power terms.
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for future growth due to its market size, levels of foreign direct निवेश, और प्रतिशत of high-tech निर्यात as share of कुल manufactured goods '', और it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy.
Argentina is the Latin American country साथ the सबसे नोबेल पुरस्कार, लिये a कुल of पाँच, सब प्राप्त दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of the twentieth century.
The country has three Nobel पुरस्कार in विज्ञान और दो of सलाम.
The most important पहलुओं of विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी in अर्जेंटीना हैं चिंतित साथ आयुर्विज्ञान, नाभिकीय भौतिकी, जैवप्रौद्योगिकी, nanotechnology, space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities.
The country also has the आचमन प्रदर्शनी बीच of विज्ञान, प्रौद्योगिकी, उद्योग and art that are Latin America 's largest.
Hickory is a city in Catawba काउंटी, साथ भाग भी in बुर्के काउंटी और काल्डवेल County.
The city 's 2010 अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010.
Hickory is the principal city in the hickory-lenoir-morganton एमएसए, in जिससे the जनसांख्यिकी at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated PET, पीट, or the obsolete petp or pet-p, is a thermoplastic पॉलिमर राल of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक मछली ; beverage, food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber.
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a सोर्स of भ्रम क्युकी इस पदार्थ, पालतु, करता नहीं contain polyethylene.
Thus, the alternate form, poly ( ethylene terephthalate ), is प्रायः प्रयुक्त in scholarly जर्नल्स लिये the खातिर of accuracy and clarity.
Depending on its processing and thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may मौजूद दोनो as an amorphous ( पारदर्शी ) और as a semi-crystalline polymer.
The semicrystalline material might appear पारदर्शी ( कण आकार < 500 nm ) or अपारदर्शी और श्वेत ( कण आकार up to a few माइक्रोन ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic एसिड और एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल साथ जल as a byproduct, or by transesterification प्रतिक्रिया between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
बहुलकीकरण is through a polycondensation प्रतिक्रिया of the monomers ( done immediately after esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct.
The majority of the world 's PET production is for सिंथेटिक मछली ( in excess of 60 % ), साथ बोतल उत्पादन हिसाब लिये around 30 % of वैश्विक demand.
In the context of textile applications, PET is referred to by its आम नाम, `` पॉलिएस्टर, '' whereas the एक्रोनिम `` पालतु '' is generally used in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer production and is the third-most-produced पॉलिमर ; polyethylene ( pe ) और polypropylene ( pp ) हैं पहला और दूसरी, respectively.
PET consists of polymerized इकाई of the मोनोमर एथिलीन terephthalate, with repeating C10H8O4 units.
PET is commonly recycled, और रै the number `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol.
Louisiana was admitted to the Union on अप्रैल 30, 1812, और elects सीनेटरों to वर्ग 2 and Class 3.
Its current सीनेटरों हैं डेमोक्रेट मरियम landrieu and Republican David Vitter.
Black खीर, रक्त खीर or रक्त सॉसेज is a प्रकार of सॉसेज बना by कुकिंग रक्त or सूखी रक्त with a filler until it is thick enough to congeal when cooled.
The dish exists in विभिन्न संस्कृतियों इससे एशिया to यूरोपीय and the Americas.
Pig, cattle, sheep, बतख, और बकरी रक्त can be प्रयुक्त depending on अलग countries.
In Europe and the Americas, ठेठ fillers शामिल मांस, मोटे, suet, ब्रैड, cornmeal, मीठी आलू, onion, chestnuts, barley, and oatmeal.
in स्पेन, पुर्तगाल और Asia, potato is often replaced by rice.
शेयरधारक may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ), a person, group, organization, सदस्य or प्रणाली जो affects or can be प्रभावित by an संगठन 's actions
Stakeholder, an entity कि can be प्रभावित by the परिणाम of कि in जिससे वे हैं कहा to be हितधारकों, i.e., कि in which they have a stake.
Project stakeholder, a व्यक्ति, समूह or संगठन साथ an ब्याज in a project
Stakeholder theory, a सिद्धान्त कि identifies और मॉडल the समूह जिससे हैं हितधारकों of a corporation or project
शेयरधारक विश्लेषण, the प्रक्रम of identifying those affected by a project or event
शेयरधारक ( विधि ), a तीसरा पार्टी जो temporarily holds धन or property while its owner is still being determined
Jack smight ( कूच 9, 1925 - सितंबर 1, 2003 ) थी an अमरीकी theatre and film director.
Smight was born in मिनियापोलिस, मिनेसोटा और गई to school with future actor Peter Graves.
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner, Rabbit, Run, Loving Couples, Midway, Harper, Airport 1975, Damnation Alley and the Emmy पुरस्कार -winning एडी, as खूब as अनेक एपीसोड of टेलीविज़न श्रेणी ऐसे as the गोधूलि मण्डल और the अल्फ्रेड हिचकॉक Hour.
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play the 49th cousin और रचित the म्यूज़िक लिये the फिल्मी adaption of फेंकें of थंडर सुन My Cry.
Smight died इससे कर्कट in लॉस एंजिल्स, California.
dmitri ivanovich mendeleev ( ; 8 फ़रवरी 1834 – 2 फ़रवरी 1907 o.s. 27 जनवरी 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and inventor.
He formulated the Periodic Law, created उसके अपना संस्करण of the आवधिक तालिका of तत्व, और प्रयुक्त it to सही the गुण of some already discovered elements and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ), officially the नगर of modesto, is the काउंटी सीट और largest नगर of Stanislaus County, California, United States.
With a जनसांख्यिकी of लगभग 201,165 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, modesto बाँधने as the 18th largest city in the state of California.
The Modesto Census County Division, which includes the शहरों of ceres और riverbank, रै a जनसांख्यिकी of 312,842 as of 2010.
Modesto is located in the सेंट्रल घाटी क्षेत्रफल of उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 90 मील उत्तर of fresno, 92 मील ईस्ट of सैन फ्रांसिस्को, 68 मील दक्षिण of the state capital of Sacramento, 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park, and 24 miles south of Stockton.
Modesto, a 29-time पेड़ नगर यूएसए honoree, is घिरी by समृद्ध farmland, lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production.
Led by milk, almonds, मुर्गियों, अखरोट, और मकई साइलेज, the काउंटी grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011.
Modesto was immortalized in the 1973 जार्ज लुकास film American Graffiti.
The award जीतना फिल्मी captured the स्पिरिट of `` cruising '' और दोस्ती on 10th और 11th गलियों in 1962 और led to the पुनरुद्धार of 1950 's nostalgia कि शामिल the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs.
Ron Howard, Harrison Ford and रिचर्ड dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर in the फिल्मी.
the साउंडट्रैक थी a विशाल success.
Director George Lucas is a देशी of modesto, graduating इससे Downey High School in 1962.
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011, which interviews 1,000 participants daily और asks individuals to assess उनके कार्य, finances, शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य, emotional राज्य of दिमाग और समुदायों, क्रमित modesto 126 आउट of the 190 cities surveyed.
In December 2009, Forbes ranked Modesto 48th out of 100 among `` बेहतरीन bang-for-the-buck शहरों ''.
In this ranking, Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability और सफर समय लकिन भी क्रमित 86th in जॉब भविष्यवाणी विकास and 99th in foreclosures.
स्वतंत्रता दिन, commonly ज्ञात as the चौथी of जुलाई, is a संघीय अवकाश in the संयुक्त राज्य commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Independence Day is commonly associated with आतिशबाजी, parades, barbecues, carnivals, मेलों, picnics, कॉन्सर्ट, बेसबॉल खेल, परिवार reunions, और राजनैतिक भाषणों and ceremonies, in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the history, government, and traditions of the United States.
स्वतंत्रता दिन is the नेशनल दिन of the संयुक्त States.
A gender symbol denotes the sex of an सजीव or characterizes an एजेंट by gender.
The two standard gender प्रतीकों denoting पुरूष ♂ और मादा ♀ हैं निकला इससे astrological symbols, denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus, respectively.
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance also denoting तत्व in alchemy, specifically the धातुओं आयरन और तांबे.
They were first used to denote the effective gender of plants ( i.e. sex of व्यक्तिगत in a दिए crossbreed, चूंकि सबसे पौधे हैं hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751.
A leasehold एस्टेट is an स्वामित्व of a अस्थाई सही to थाम जमीन or प्रॉपर्टी in जिससे a lessee or a किरायेदार holds अधिकारों of रियल प्रॉपर्टी by कुछ रूप of title from a lessor or landlord.
Although a tenant does hold अधिकारों to रियल प्रॉपर्टी, a leasehold एस्टेट is typically considered personal property.
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or प्रॉपर्टी कार्यकाल जहाँ एक पार्टी खरीदता the सही to occupy जमीन or a building for a given length of time.
As lease is a विधिक एस्टेट, leasehold एस्टेट can be bought and sold on the open market.
A leasehold thus differs इससे a freehold or शुल्क सरल जहाँ the स्वामित्व of a प्रॉपर्टी is खरीदा outright और thereafter आयोजित लिये an अनिर्धार्य लंबाई of समय, और भी differs इससे a tenancy जहाँ a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly.
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in दशकों or सदियां ; a 99 साल पट्टे is काफी आम ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner.
Terms of the agreement are contained in a पट्टे, जिससे रै तत्व of अनुबंध और प्रॉपर्टी विधि intertwined.
The term एस्टेट लिये सालो may occasionally be प्रयुक्त.
This refers to a leasehold एस्टेट लिये कोई विशिष्ट काल of समय ( the शब्द `` years '' is misleading ).
An estate for सालो is नहीं automatically नवीनीकृत.
Colloquially, `` पट्टे '' और `` पट्टे `` हैं प्रायः a formalization of a longer, specific period as compared with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the end of a short period.
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the संसार of the सुअर ओलिविया ) is a british-american children 's एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित by मीडिया कम्पनी chorion और based on Ian Falconer 's books.
It is seen on उपनाम jr. in the us, मिल्कशेक !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland, and Disney Junior in लैटिन अमेरिका और ब्राज़ील, treehouse tv in Canada.
The show has won a silver Parents ' Choice Award for its धनात्मक स्टोरी लाइनों और वर्ण.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( नीचे ) और caribbean ( शीर्ष ), साथ कनाल at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a जलयान कनाल in पनामा कि connects the अटलांटिक समंदर ( via the Caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean.
the कनाल कटौती आरपार the isthmus of पनामा और is a key conduit for international maritime trade.
There are locks at प्रत्येक समाप्त to लिफ्ट जहाजों up to gatun झील ( ऊपर sea-level ).
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the राशि of कार्य जरूरी लिये the canal.
The वर्तमान ताले हैं wide.
A third, wider लेन of ताले is being built.
France began कार्य on the कनाल in 1881, लकिन था to रोकें क्युकी of engineering problems and high mortality due to disease.
The United States ( US ) बाद took over the प्रोजेक्ट और took a दशक to पूरा the कनाल in 1914, enabling जहाजों to avoid the lengthy केप सींग रूट around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan.
One of the largest and most difficult अभियान्त्रिकी प्रोजेक्ट कभी undertaken, the पनामा कनाल शॉर्टकट बना it संभावित लिये जहाजों to सफर between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half the time previously required.
the shorter, तेज़, safer रूट to the us वेस्ट coast और to राष्ट्र in और साथ the प्रशांत Ocean allowed those places to become more integrated with the world economy.
During this time, ownership of the territory कि is अभी the पनामा कनाल थी पहला कोलम्बियाई, तब फ्रेंच, और तब American ; the United States completed the construction.
The canal was taken over in 1999 by the panamanian सरकारी, as long नियोजित.
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships when the canal opened in 1914, to 14,702 बरतन in 2008, the latter measuring a कुल of 309.6 लाख पनामा canal/universal मापन प्रणाली ( pc/ums ) tons.
By 2008, more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the canal, अनेक of उन्हें much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ; the largest जहाजों कि can पारगमन the कनाल आज हैं पुकारा Panamax.
The American Society of Civil इंजीनियर्स रै नामित the पनामा कनाल एक of the सात चमत्कार of the आधुनिक world.
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17, 1790 ) थी एक of the founding fathers of the United States.
A noted polymath, Franklin was a अग्रणी लेखक, मुद्रक, राजनैतिक theorist, राजनेता, postmaster, वैज्ञानिक, musician, inventor, satirist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat.
As a scientist, he was a प्रमुख फिगर in the अमरीकी आत्मज्ञान और the इतिहास of भौतिकी लिये उसके discoveries and theories regarding electricity.
He invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the फ्रैंकलिन स्टोव, a carriage ओडोमीटर, and the glass 'armonica '.
he facilitated अनेक नागरिक संगठन, सहित a आग department and a university.
Franklin earned the शीर्षक of `` the पहला अमरीकी '' लिये उसके जल्दी और indefatigable campaigning लिये औपनिवेशिक एकता ; as an लेखक और प्रवक्ता in लंदन लिये अनेक colonies, तब as the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation.
फ्रैंकलिन थी foundational in धमक the अमरीकी ethos as a विवाह of the व्यावहारिक मान of thrift, मुश्किल कार्य, शिक्षा, जातियाँ स्पिरिट, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment.
In the शब्द of इतिहासकार हेनरी स्टील commager, `` in a फ्रैंकलिन could be मिलाया the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat. ''
To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin `` the most संपन्नता अमरीकी of उसके आयु और the सबसे influential in inventing the प्रकार of समाज अमेरिका would become. ''
Franklin, always proud of his working क्लास जड़ें, became a कामयाब समाचारपत्र एडिटर और मुद्रक in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies.
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the Pennsylvania वृत्तान्त, a समाचारपत्र कि थी ज्ञात लिये इसके क्रांतिकारी sentiments और आलोचनाओं of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य in the अमरीकी colonies.
He became wealthy publishing ग़रीब रिचर्ड 's almanack और the पेन्सिलवेनिया Gazette.
Franklin gained international renown as a वैज्ञानिक लिये उसके प्रसिद्ध प्रयोग in विद्युत और for his many inventions, especially the lightning rod.
He played a प्रमुख भूमिका in establishing the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया और was elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society.
Franklin became a national hero in अमेरिका जब he पथप्रदर्शन the प्रयत्न to have पार्लियामेंट repeal the unpopular Stamp Act.
An संपन्नता राजनयिक, he थी widely admired among the फ्रेंच as अमरीकी मंत्री to Paris and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations.
For many years he थी the अंग्रेजों postmaster लिये the colonies, जिससे सक्रिय उसे to नियत up the first national communications network.
He was active in community अफेयर्स, औपनिवेशिक और राज्य राजनीती, as खूब as नेशनल और international affairs.
इससे 1785 to 1788, he परोसा as governor of Pennsylvania.
Toward the end of his life, he freed उसके स्लेव और became एक of the सबसे prominent abolitionists.
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and औकात as एक of अमेरिका 's सबसे influential founding fathers, have देखी फ्रैंकलिन सम्मानित on coinage और धन ; warships ; the names of अनेक कस्बों, काउंटी, शैक्षणिक संस्थानों, namesakes, and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death, countless cultural references.
Criminal Minds is an अमरीकी पुलिस प्रक्रियात्मक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम कि premiered सितंबर 22, 2005, on CBS.
The series follows a टोली of profilers इससे the एफबीआई 's behavioral Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico, Virginia.
The BAU is भाग of the एफबीआई नेशनल बीच लिये the Analysis of Violent Crime.
The show differs from many प्रक्रियात्मक dramas by focusing on प्रोफाइलिंग the दण्ड, बल्कि than the crime itself.
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association साथ सीबीएस टेलीविज़न studios ( originally सर्वोपरि संजाल टेलीविज़न तब सीबीएस सर्वोपरि संजाल टेलीविज़न ) और एबीसी studios ( originally Touchstone Television ).
CBS announced in अक्तूबर 2009 कि विरासत इंटरैक्टिव होता develop a वीडियो game based on the show.
The game होता आवश्यकता खिलाड़ी to जाँचें अपराधों दृश्यों for clues to help solve murder mysteries.
The interactive पहेली खेल थी released in 2012, लकिन किया नहीं विशेषता कोई of the आवाज़ें of the दिखाएँ 's डाल, nor थी the cast involved with the project.
On March 14, 2012, सीबीएस नवीनीकृत दण्ड minds लिये an eighth season, which premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` heart-shaped बक्सा '' is a सोंग by the अमरीकी grunge बैंड निर्वाण, लिखा by vocalist और guitarist Kurt Cobain.
the सोंग थी released as the पहला सिंगल इससे the समूह 's तीसरा और फाइनल studio album, In Utero, in 1993.
It was one of two songs from the एल्बम मिश्रित by स्कॉट litt in अनुक्रम to augment the original production by producer Steve Albini.
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single for sale in the United States, `` Heart-Shaped Box '' प्राप्त much अमरीकी रेडियो airplay, reaching क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड आधुनिक चट्टान ट्रैक्स चार्ट.
The international रिलीज of the सिंगल पहुँचे क्रमांक पाँच on the uk Singles Chart.
The song 's music video, निर्देशित by एंटोन corbijn, garnered नाजुक plaudits.
The orbital speed of a body, generally a planet, a natural उपग्रह, an कृत्रिम उपग्रह, or a अनेक स्टार, is the गति at जिससे it orbits around the barycenter of a प्रणाली, प्रायः around a more massive body.
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed, the औसत गति as it completes an कक्षा, or instantaneous कक्षीय गति, the गति at a particular point in its orbit.
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed from the अलहदा to the सेंट्रल देह at कि स्थिति, और the विशिष्ट कक्षीय उर्जा, जिससे is स्वतंत्र of स्थिति : the गतिज उर्जा is the total energy minus the potential energy.
भूरा राजमहल आंतरिक और Atrium
Brown Palace होटल is the second-oldest ऑपरेटिंग होटल in Denver, Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built.
It is now संचालित by कोरम होटल और रिसॉर्ट.
It was built in 1892, एक साल बाद than the ऑक्सफोर्ड Hotel.
It was named for its original owner, हेनरी C. भूरा, और थी designed साथ इसके विषम triangular आकार by वास्तु Frank Edbrooke.
The hotel is located at 321 17th st, डेनवर, co between 17th गली, ब्रॉडवे और tremont Street/Pl in downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza.
The प्रमुख प्रवेश द्वार is on tremont Street.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format प्रयुक्त to स्टोर डिजिटल वीडियो on dvd discs, और is फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in Asia, North America, Europe, and Australia.
discs using the dvd-video specification आवश्यकता a dvd ड्राइव और an h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
वाणिज्यिक dvd फिल्मों हैं एनकोडेड using a संयोजन of h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 संपीडित वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
typically, the आंकड़ा रेट लिये dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ इससे 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, और the बिट रेट is usually adaptive.
It was first उपलब्धियाँ लिये खुदरा around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was created by dvd फ़ोरम और can be प्राप्त इससे dvd format/logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम लिये a शुल्क of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly available, because प्रत्येक सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure अनुबंध.
Certain information in the DVD किताब is मालिकाना और गोपनीय.
The nautical mile ( symbol M, NM or nmi ) is a ईकाई of लंबाई कि is परिचय एक मिनट of चाप of अक्षांश measured along any meridian, or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator.
By अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध it रै महरूम नियत at 1,852 मीटर exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for उपयोग in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई by the bipm ) प्रयुक्त विशेषकर by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries, and also in polar exploration.
It is commonly used in international law and treaties, विशेषकर regarding the हद of territorial waters.
It developed from the समुद्र मील और the सम्बन्धित भौगोलिक mile.
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and एयर navigators विश्वव्यापी क्युकी of इसके convenience जब working with charts.
Most nautical चार्ट उपयोग the मर्केटर प्रक्षेप जिनकी स्केल varies by परिचय a फ़ैक्टर of छह इससे the equator to 80° अक्षांश, so चार्ट covering large areas can not use a single linear scale.
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a मिनट of अक्षांश on a चार्ट, so a अलहदा measured साथ a चार्ट divider can be roughly परिवर्तित to nautical miles using the chart 's latitude scale.
Shippensburg is a बरो in कम्बरलैंड और फ्रैंकलिन काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of Pennsylvania.
Settled in 1730, shippensburg झूठ in the कम्बरलैंड घाटी, 41 मील ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, and is part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In 1900, 3,228 लोगों जिया वहीँ ; in 1910, 3,457 ; and in 1940, 5,244 people lived there.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,492 at the 2010 census.
shippensburg थी incorporated as a बरो on January 21, 1819.
In the past, there were फर्नीचर कारखानों, इंजन और पंप works, और अन्य औद्योगिक works स्तिथ भीतर the town.
Shippensburg is also the home of The Beistle Company, the oldest and largest निर्माता of सजावट और पार्टी goods, जिससे बिकता इसके distinctive मधुकोश पेपर सजावट विश्वव्यापी.
It is भी the स्थान of pague और fegan, the oldest लगातार operated hardware store in Pennsylvania.
In May 2012, Volvo Construction Equipment began a $ 100 लाख विस्तार प्रोजेक्ट to लाओ इसके अमरीकी मुख्यालय to Shippensburg.
shippensburg is भी घर to shippensburg विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया, एक of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों of the पेन्सिलवेनिया State System of Higher Education.
Yearly the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of जुलाई, the shippensburg जातियाँ Fair is held.
Begun in 1958, the fair बिल्स itself as पेन्सिलवेनिया 's largest bi-county मेला.
The fair includes agricultural exhibits, a शिल्प दिखाएँ, खाना विक्रेता, और कार्निवल यात्राएँ amongst other things.
Every summer on the last Saturday of August, Shippensburg holds the Corn Festival, an इवेंट कि brings क्षेत्रीय शिल्पकार और विक्रेता to operate stands downtown.
the शहर is बंद to ट्रैफ़िक लिये at तनिक 5 ब्लॉक for most of the day.
Average उपस्थिति at the पर्व is अनुमानित at 60,000 - 70,000 each year.
Black hairy tongue ( BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a कंडीशन of the जीभ जहाँ the filiform papillae elongate साथ ब्लैक or भूरा discoloration, giving a black and hairy appearance.
The appearance may be alarming, लकिन it is a हानिरहित कंडीशन.
Predisposing factors शामिल धूम्रपान, xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ), नरम आहार, ग़रीब मौखिक hygiene और certain medications.
Management is by improving मौखिक hygiene, विशेषकर scraping or brushing the tongue.
The IEEE 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is a सीरियल बस इंटरफ़ेस मानक लिये high-speed संचार and isochronous real-time data transfer.
It was developed in the late 1980s और जल्दी 1990s by ठहराना, जो पुकारा it FireWire.
The 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is comparable to usb, और प्रायः those दो technologies हैं considered together, though USB has more market share.
Apple first शामिल firewire in कुछ of इसके 1999 मॉडल, और सबसे ठहराना कंप्यूटर चूंकि the साल 2000 have शामिल FireWire ports, though, as of 2013, nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ).
The इंटरफ़ेस is भी ज्ञात by the ब्रांड i.link ( सोनी ), और Lynx ( Texas Instruments ).
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many अनुप्रयोग, क्युकी of निम्नतर क्रियान्वयन लागत और a सरलीकृत, अधिक अनुकूलनीय cabling system.
the 1394 मानक भी defines a backplane इंटरफ़ेस, though this is not as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition audio-video संजाल गठबंधन ( हाना ) मानक कनेक्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये a/v ( audio/visual ) घटक communication and control.
FireWire is also उपलब्धियाँ in बेतार, रेशा ऑप्टिक, और समाक्षीय संस्करण using the isochronous protocols.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist, singer-songwriter, और रिकार्ड producer.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, Vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding सदस्य और नेता of दोगुना Trouble.
Together with वादक क्रिस layton और bassist टॉमी शैनन, वे ignited the ब्लूज़ revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning सात सालो, vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल consistently बेची आउट concerts while their albums frequently went gold.
He was born और उठाया in डलास, टेक्सास, और लिये a छोटी period of time lived in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at आयु सात और formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high school and स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical करियर, joining समूह ऐसे as krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band that eventually evolved into दोगुना ट्रबल और regularly performed around ऑस्टिन.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, catching the ध्यान of संगीतकारों दाउद बोवी और जैक्सन Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to खेल on उसके आगामी स्टुडियो एल्बम let 's नृत्य, जबकि browne offered the बैंड फ़्री उपयोग of उसके निजी studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and दोगुना ट्रबल यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to एपिक रिकॉर्ड by दिग्गज रिकार्ड निर्माता जॉन हैमंड sr. और released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the समूह released the एल्बम, could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of जिससे प्रदर्शित नई keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed सफलतापूर्वक, vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया to दे up a कोका और alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released and अर्जित उन्हें a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Contemporary Blues Performance.
On August 27, 1990, vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following a प्रदर्शन in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र स्टाइल थी निकला इससे a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians सहित अल्बर्ट किंग, फ्रेडी किंग, ओटिस फटाफट, और muddy waters, और चट्टान guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ and pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on रोलिंग पत्थरों सूची of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम shores park.
Stevie Ray vaughan is widely माना to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas.
GigE redirects यहाँ.
लिये the कैमरा प्रोटोकॉल, देखिए GigE vision.
In computer networking, gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 gige ) is a पद describing विभिन्न technologies लिये transmitting ईथरनेट फ्रेम्स at a रेट of a gigabit प्रति दूसरी ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ), as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into उपयोग शुरूआत in 1999, धीरे supplanting तेज़ ईथरनेट in तार लोकल संजाल, जहाँ it performed considerably faster.
The cables and equipment are बहुत समान to पिछला मानकों और यहूद बहुत आम और किफायती by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs are allowed by the specification, लकिन full-duplex उपयोग साथ switches is much अधिक common.
Intel PRO/1000 GT पीसीआई संजाल इंटरफ़ेस card
the प्रमुख components of a stamp:
1. चित्र
2. perforations
3. denomination
4. देश name
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper कि is खरीदा और प्रदर्शित on an मद of मेल as प्रमाण of भुगतान of postage.
Typically, stamps are made from खास पेपर, साथ a नेशनल नामांकन और denomination ( दाम ) on the फेस, और a गम चिपकने on the रिवर्स पक्ष.
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor और हैं प्रयुक्त to अदा लिये the लागत शामिल in चलती मेल as खूब as अन्य कारोबार necessities ऐसे as insurance and registration.
The stamp’s आकार is प्रायः कि of a छोटी आयताकार of varying proportions, though triangles or other shapes are occasionally used.
The stamp is affixed to an लिफाफा or अन्य डाक कवर ( i.e., पैकेट, बक्सा, mailing बेलन ) that the customer wishes to send.
The item is तब processed by the डाक प्रणाली, जहाँ a postmark, sometimes ज्ञात as a रद्दीकरण चिह्नित, is प्रायः applied over the stamp and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used, which prevents its reuse.
The postmark indicates the तिथि और पाइंट of origin of the mailing.
The mailed item is then delivered to the address कि the ग्राहक रै लागू to the लिफाफा or कवर.
postage stamps have facilitated the डिलीवरी of mail since the 1840s.
Before this time, ink and hand-stamps ( hence the शब्द 'stamp ' ), प्रायः बना इससे लकडी or कॉर्क, यहूद प्रायः प्रयुक्त to फ़्रैंक the मेल और confirm the payment of postage.
The first adhesive postage stamp, commonly referred to as the पैनी ब्लैक, थी जारी in the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1840.
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of Great Britain और आयरलैंड, जिससे in the जल्दी 19th सदी थी in अस्तव्यस्तता और rife साथ भ्रष्टाचार.
There are varying खाते of the आविष्कारक or आविष्कारक of the stamp.
Before the introduction of postage stamps, mail in the UK was paid for by the recipient, a system that was associated with an irresolvable problem : the लागत of delivering मेल यहूद नहीं recoverable by the डाक सेवा जब प्राप्तकर्ता यहूद असमर्थ or unwilling to अदा लिये वितरित वस्तुएं, और प्रेषकों था no प्रोत्साहन to सीमित the क्रमांक, आकार, or weight of items sent, whether or not they would ultimately be paid for.
The postage stamp resolved this issue in a सरल और सुरुचिपूर्ण manner, साथ the अतिरिक्त लाभ of रूम लिये an तत्व of सौंदर्य to be introduced.
Later related inventions include postal stationery such as prepaid-postage envelopes, post cards, lettercards, aerogrammes and wrappers, postage मीटर, और, अधिक recently, specialty बाक्स और लिफाफे provided फ़्री to the ग्राहक by the u.S. डाक सेवा लिये प्रधानता or एक्स्प्रेस mailing.
The postage stamp afforded convenience for both the मेलर और डाक officials, अधिक efficiently बरामद लागत लिये the डाक सेवा, और ultimately resulted in a better, faster postal system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, उनके उपयोग resulted in greatly increased mailings दौरान the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps during this era were the most लोकप्रिय रास्ता of paying लिये मेल, लकिन by the समाप्त of the 20th सदी यहूद rapidly होने eclipsed by the use of metered postage and bulk mailing by businesses. )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the पिछला दशक of the 20th सदी और the पहला दशक of the 21st due to घटती लागत of long अलहदा टेलीफोन संचार और the विकास और विस्फोटक स्प्रेड of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had.
As postage stamps with their engraved imagery began to appear on a फैली आधार, इतिहासकारों और collectors began to take notice.
The पढ़ाई of postage stamps और उनके उपयोग is referred to as philately.
Stamp collecting can be दोनो a शौक और a रूप of ऐतिहासिक पढ़ाई और सन्दर्भ, as government-issued postage stamps और उनके mailing systems have always been involved with the history of nations.
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों in बर्मिंघम in the u.S. राज्य of Alabama.
Developing from an extension center established in 1936, the संस्था became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 और is आज एक of तीन संस्थानों in the विश्वविद्यालयों of Alabama System.
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic विभाजन अग्रणी to स्नातक 's, निपुण 's, डॉक्टरेट, और पेशेवर डिग्री in the सोशल और behavioral sciences, the उदार arts, business, education, engineering, and health-related fields such as medicine, dentistry, optometry, nursing, and public health.
The school is अत्यधिक प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके चिकित्सा शोध और प्राकृतिक sciences कार्यक्रम.
The UAB स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली, एक of the largest अकादमिक चिकित्सा centers in the संयुक्त States, is affiliated with the university.
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in various medical specialties, सहित आतंरिक आयुर्विज्ञान, न्यूरोलॉजी, सर्जरी, radiology, और anesthesiology.
UAB Hospital is the only ACS सत्यापित स्तर i आघात बीच in अलबामा, as रेटेड by the अमरीकी कॉलेज of अध्येतावृत्ति Trauma Program.
UAB is the state 's largest employer, with more than 18,000 संकाय और स्टाफ और over 53,000 कार्य at the विश्वविद्यालयों and in the health system.
An अनुमानित 10 प्रतिशत of the कार्य in the birmingham-hoover महानगर क्षेत्रफल और 1 in 33 jobs in the state of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB.
The university 's overall सालाना आर्थिक प्रभाव थी अनुमानित to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
In the fall of 2012, the University of Alabama at बर्मिंघम नामांकित 17,999 विद्यार्थी इससे अधिक than 110 countries, including 1,605 freshmen.
वहीँ हैं योजनाएँ to commence साथ an `` aggressive '' growth in enrollment at UAB.
The वर्तमान uab अध्यक्ष is dr. Ray L. Watts.
टोफू, भी पुकारा सेम दही, is a खाना बना by coagulating सोया रस and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks.
it is a घटक in अनेक ईस्ट एशियाई और southeast Asian cuisines.
There are many different varieties of टोफू, सहित भैस टोफू और टोफू कि रै महरूम processed in some way.
Tofu रै a हल्का स्वाद और can be प्रयुक्त in savory and sweet dishes.
It is often seasoned or marinated to सूट the डिश.
टोफू originated in प्राचीन चीन कुछ 2,000 years ago.
Chinese लेजेंड ascribes इसके आविष्कार to प्रिंस लियू an ( चाइनीज : 劉安 Liú Ān, 179–122 BC ).
Tofu and its उत्पादन तकनीक यहूद introduced into कोरियाई और तब जापानी दौरान the Nara period.
It स्प्रेड into अन्य भाग of ईस्ट एशिया as well.
इस स्प्रेड संभावित coincided साथ the स्प्रेड of buddhism because it is an important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism.
Li Shizhen in the Ming Dynasty वर्णित a विधि of बनाना tofu in Bencao Gangmu.
Tofu has a low calorie count, अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of प्रोटीन, और little fat.
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant प्रयुक्त in निर्माण, may भी be ऊँची in calcium and/or magnesium.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a आम चिंपैंजी, ज्ञात लिये होने the one-time पालतु of अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार माइकल Jackson, who bought the primate from a Texas research facility in the early 1980s.
The animal was a frequent travel साथी to the सिंगर, जिनकी अनुलग्नक to the एनिमल led to मीडिया mockery और, among अन्य कारकों, to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric.
During the Bad World Tour, for example, Jackson brought बुलबुले साथ उसे to जापानी, जहाँ वे दोनो पिया चाय साथ the mayor of Osaka.
Bubbles was initially kept at the जैक्सन परिवार 's घर in encino, लॉस एंजिल्स, लकिन थी स्थानांतरित to neverland ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in जैक्सन 's बेडरूम, प्रयुक्त the सिंगर 's toilet, and ate candy in the Neverland movie theater.
In 2003 the public learned that, like all captive chimpanzees, Bubbles था matured into a विशाल और आक्रामक वयस्क chimp unsuitable as a साथी animal.
He was sent to a California animal trainer, जहाँ he थी reported to have attempted आत्महत्या.
When the प्रशिक्षक shut bas उसके आपरेशन in 2004, बुलबुले थी स्थानांतरित to the बीच लिये Great Apes, a sanctuary in Wauchula, Florida, where he has lived since 2005.
चिंतन हैं an अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड इससे teignmouth, Devon, which formed in 1994.
The band consists of school मित्रों मैथ्यू bellamy ( सीसे vocals, सीसे गिटार, पियानो, keyboards, keytar ), क्रिस्टोफर wolstenholme ( bass, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of their 2006 एल्बम ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे, keyboardist और percussionist मॉर्गन nicholls रै performed सजीव साथ the band.
Muse are known for their energetic and हद सजीव प्रदर्शन और उनके संलयन of अनेक म्यूज़िक जाति, सहित स्पेस चट्टान, प्रगतिशील चट्टान, वैकल्पिक चट्टान, भारी मेटल, classical music and electronica.
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ), Origin of Symmetry ( 2001 ), absolution ( 2003 ), ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे ( 2006 ), the प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ) और the 2nd विधि ( 2012 ).
They have भी जारी तीन सजीव एल्बम, hullabaloo साउंडट्रैक ( 2002 ), जिससे is भी a संकलन of b-sides, absolution Tour ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007.
ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे अर्जित the बैंड a पारा पुरस्कार नामांकन and a third place finish in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006.
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history, including five MTV Europe Music Awards, six Q Awards, आठ nme पुरस्कार, दो ब्रिट पुरस्कार —winning `` बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों सजीव अधिनियम '' twice, an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, चार kerrang !
पुरस्कार और an अमरीकी Music Award.
They were also nominated for five Grammy Awards, of जिससे वे जीती बेहतरीन चट्टान एल्बम, लिये उनके पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम the प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ).
चिंतन have बेची over 15 लाख albums worldwide.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the capital नगर of the फ़्री राज्य प्रांत of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; और, as the न्यायिक पूंजी of the स्वदेश, एक of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's तीन नेशनल राजधानी – the अन्य दो होने केप Town, the legislative capital, and Pretoria, the administrative capital.
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as `` the city of गुलाब ``, owing to the प्रचुरता of ये पुष्प और the सालाना रोज़ पर्व आयोजित there.
The city 's Sesotho name is mangaung, अर्थ `` प्लेस of cheetahs `` और it रै महरूम शामिल in the mangaung Local Municipality since 2000.
bloemfontein is situated on शुष्क घासभूमि at, at an altitude of above sea level.
The city is home to 369,568 निवासियों, जबकि the mangaung लोकल नगरपालिका रै a जनसांख्यिकी of 645,455.
जहाँ do We Come From ?
कया हैं we ?
जहाँ हैं we Going ?
One of post-impressionist पॉल gauguin 's सबसे famous paintings.
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance of जीवन or अस्तित्व in general.
It can भी be expressed in अलग फ़ॉर्म, ऐसे as `` क्यों हैं we यहाँ ? ``, `` कया is जीवन सब परिचय ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
It रै महरूम the विषय of much philosophical, वैज्ञानिक, and theological speculation throughout history.
There have been a large क्रमांक of प्रस्तावित जवाब to ये सवाल इससे अनेक अलग cultural and ideological backgrounds.
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness, and borders on many other issues, such as सांकेतिक अर्थ, सत्तामीमांसा, मान, purpose, आचार, शुभ और दुष्ट, फ़्री होगा, the अस्तित्व of एक or अनेक देवताओं, conceptions of परमेश्वर, the soul, and the afterlife.
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the ब्रह्मांड, exploring the कॉन्टेक्स्ट और पैरामीटर्स concerning the 'how ' of life.
Science also अध्ययन और can provide सुझाव लिये the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality.
an वैकल्पिक, humanistic दृष्टिकोण मुद्राएँ the सवाल `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
The value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide साथ the उपलब्धि of परम वास्तविकता, or a अहसास of oneness, or भी a अहसास of sacredness.
Family Guy creator Seth macfarlane भी provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin, stewie griffin, ब्रायन griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड sitcom कि सुविधाएँ पाँच प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं, और numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice डाल consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane, एलेक्स borstein, सेठ ग्रीन, mila kunis ( जो replaced लेसी Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
पुनरावर्ती आवाज़ अभिनेताओं शामिल पैट्रिक warburton, आदम वेस्ट, जॉन G. ब्रेनन, निकोल सुलीवान और जेनिफर Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast members provide आवाज़ें लिये अनेक characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the विभिन्न अक्षर personalities on the दिखाएँ, चित्रण प्रेरणा from celebrities and pop culture.
Family guy वर्ण have महरूम निभाई by अधिक than एक कर्ता, after members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` मुश्किल विधिक `` और macfarlane रै भी जीती an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन और an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न उत्पादन, हालांकि no अन्य cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
1911 उदाहरण by एडमंड dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; शाब्दिक अनुवाद : `` the राजकुमारी on the मटर '' ) is a साहित्यिक परी टेल by hans ईसाई Andersen about a young woman whose royal identity is established by a test of her physical sensitivity.
The tale was first published with three अन्य by andersen in an inexpensive पुस्तिका on 8 may 1835 in कोपेनहेगन by C.A. Reitzel.
Andersen had heard the story as a child, and it likely has its source in लोक सामग्री, संभवतः originating इससे स्वीडन as it is unknown in the Danish oral tradition.
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835 were well प्राप्त by डैनिश आलोचकों, जो disliked उनके कैज़ुअल, chatty style, and their lack of morals.
In 1959 `` The Princess and the Pea '' was adapted to the musical स्टेज in a उत्पादन पुकारा एकबार upon a गद्दा अभिनीत कैरोल burnett.
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the United राज्य जो यहूद either born in जर्मनी or हैं of जर्मनी ancestry.
They comprise परिचय 50 लाख लोगों, बनाना उन्हें the largest ancestry समूह ahead of Irish Americans, African Americans and English Americans.
They comprise परिचय 1/3 of the जर्मनी diaspora सब over the world.
None of the जर्मनी राज्य था नई संसार colonies.
Not until the 1670s did the first significant groups of German आप्रवासियों arrive in the अंग्रेजों colonies, settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania.
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the 19th सदी, साथ कुछ आठ लाख आमद इससे Germany.
They were pulled by the attractions of land and धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता, और धकेल आउट of यूरोपीय by shortages of जमीन और धार्मिक or राजनैतिक oppression.
Many arrived seeking धार्मिक or राजनैतिक स्वतंत्रता, अन्य लिये आर्थिक अवसर वृहद than those in Europe, and others simply for the chance to start fresh in the New World.
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought आउट the सबसे उत्पादक जमीन, जहाँ उनके intensive खेती तकनीकों होता अदा off.
After 1840, many आए to शहरों, जहाँ `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon emerged.
German Americans established the first kindergartens in the United राज्य, introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ परंपरा, और originated लोकप्रिय अमरीकी foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers.
German American celebrations are held throughout the देश, एक of the सबसे well-known होने the german-american steuben परेड in नई यॉर्क नगर, आयोजित every third Saturday in September.
There are also major annual events in Chicago, सिनसिनाटी, मिल्वौकी, पिट्सबर्ग, st. लुई और अन्य cities.
Like many other immigrants कि आए to the संयुक्त राज्य, an overwhelming क्रमांक of लोगों of जर्मनी or आंशिक जर्मनी descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the United राज्य संविधान is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक बयान of the संविधान 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as विश्वसनीय प्रमाण of, the founding fathers ' इरादों regarding the संविधान 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the लोगों '' suggests कि the नई सरकारी originates इससे the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य और it सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
The history of the Internet began साथ the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the अवधारणाओं कि होता सीसे to the अंतरजाल जब a संदेश थी भेजा over the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर विज्ञान प्राध्यापक लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ), बाद the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, tymnet, और telenet, यहूद विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s using a किस्में of प्रोटोकॉल.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could be joined साथ into a संजाल of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized, and नतीजतन, the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected tcp/ip संजाल, पुकारा the अंतरजाल, थी introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National विज्ञान न्यास ( nsf ) विकसित the कंप्यूटर विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet ) और again in 1986 जब nsfnet provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service प्रदाताओं ( isps ) began to emerge in the लेट 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET थी decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when nsfnet थी decommissioned, निकालना the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the अंतरजाल to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture और कॉमर्स, सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल, तत्काल messaging, आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स, और the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and शिक्षा जातियाँ continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल ऑपरेटिंग at 1-gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global संचार लैंडस्केप थी लगभग तत्काल in ऐतिहासिक शर्तें : it तभी communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way दूरसंचार networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of ऑनलाइन सूचना, कॉमर्स, entertainment, और सोशल networking.
Southwest एयरलाइंस co. ( ) is a प्रमुख u.S. एयरलाइन और the संसार 's largest low-cost carrier, headquartered in Dallas, Texas.
It थी स्थापित in 1967 और अपनाया इसके current name in 1971.
The airline has अधिक than 46,000 कर्मचारी और operates more than 3,400 flights per day.
as of जून 5, 2011, it carries the सबसे घरेलू passengers of any U.S. airline.
As of April 2013, Southwest Airlines has scheduled सेवा to 84 गंतव्यों in 41 राज्य और प्यूर्टो रीको.
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s, except लिये a few सालो in the 1970s और 1980s, जब it संचालित Boeing 727s.
As of अगस्त 2012, दक्षिणपश्चिम is the largest ऑपरेटर of the 737 विश्वव्यापी साथ over 550 in service, each operating an average of six flights per day.
In May 2011, the एयरलाइन acquired airtran एयरवेज़, साथ संयोजन of the वाहक अपेक्षित to be complete by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the company थी जारी a सिंगल ऑपरेटिंग प्रमाणपत्र, technically बनने one airline.
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv पाले lager शुभारम्भ in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing Company.
Although founded as a local beer in पश्चिमी पेन्सिलवेनिया, it थी marketed aggressively और आखिरकार became a national product.
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis, मिसौरी, in मिड 2006, जिससे transferred brewing परिचालन to New Jersey.
Benedict XVI (,, ; born जोसेफ aloisius ratzinger on 16 अप्रैल 1927 ) is पोप emeritus of the Catholic Church.
He served as पोप इससे 2005 to 2013.
In that position, he was दोनो the नेता of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और sovereign of the Vatican City State.
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated his Papal उद्घाटन द्रव्यमान on 24 अप्रैल 2005, और took कब्ज़ा of उसके गिरजाघर, the archbasilica of st. John Lateran, on 7 May 2005.
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria, ratzinger स्थापित खुद as a अत्यधिक regarded विश्वविद्यालयों theologian by the लेट 1950s और थी नियुक्त a पूरा प्राध्यापक in 1958.
बाद a long करियर as an अकादमिक, सेवारत as a प्राध्यापक of धर्मशास्त्र at अनेक जर्मनी universities—the पिछला होने the विश्वविद्यालयों of regensburg, जहाँ he परोसा as वाइस अध्यक्ष of the विश्वविद्यालयों in 1976 और 1977—he थी नियुक्त archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977, an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience.
In 1981, he settled in Rome when he became prefect of the सभा लिये the doctrine of the आस्था, एक of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
From 2002 until his election as पोप, he थी भी डीन of the कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स, और as ऐसे, the primus inter pares among the cardinals.
Prior to becoming pope, he was `` a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century '' as `` one of the most आदरणीय, influential और विवादास्पद सदस्यों of the कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स '' ; he था an influence `` दूसरी to none जब it आए to सेटिंग गिरिजाघर प्राथमिकताएं और दिशानिर्देश '' as एक of पोप जॉन पॉल ii 's closest confidants.
He was originally a उदार theologian, लकिन अपनाया रूढ़िवादी views after 1968.
His सफल कृतियाँ बचाव परंपरागत कैथोलिक doctrine and values.
During his papacy, बेनेडिक्ट xvi advocated a वापसी to आधारभूत ईसाई मान to काउंटर the increased secularisation of many Western countries.
He views relativism 's denial of उद्देश्य सच्चाई, और the denial of moral सच्चाई in particular, as the सेंट्रल problem of the 21st century.
He taught the importance of both the Catholic गिरिजाघर और an समझना of परमेश्वर 's redemptive प्रेम.
Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions सहित elevating the tridentine द्रव्यमान to a अधिक prominent position.
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art, देखने the उपयोग of सौंदर्य as a पाथ to the पवित्र, प्रचारित the उपयोग of लैटिन, और reintroduced परंपरागत papal garments, for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` the प्रमुख बौद्धिक फ़ोर्स in the गिरिजाघर '' since the mid-1980s.
Several of Pope Benedict 's students from his academic career are also prominent churchmen आज और confidantes of उसे, notably Christoph Schönborn.
On 11 February 2013, Pope Benedict announced his resignation in a वाक in लैटिन पहले the कार्डिनल्स, citing a `` कमी of शक्ति of mind and body '' due to his advanced age.
His resignation became प्रभावी on 28 फ़रवरी 2013.
he is the पहला पोप to इस्तीफा चूंकि पोप ग्रेगरी बारहवीं in 1415, और the first to do so on his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294.
As pope emeritus, बेनेडिक्ट retains the स्टाइल of उसके पवित्रता, और the शीर्षक of पोप, और होगा continue to पोशाक in the papal colour of white.
He was succeeded by पोप फ्रांसिस on 13 कूच 2013, और he स्थानांतरित into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope साथ असली परीक्षण चित्र.
Used by सैन्य to जाँचें stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs.
View of Boston, c. 1860 ; an जल्दी stereoscopic कार्ड लिये देखने a झाँकी from nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station देखने apparatus and sets of stereo slides.
Patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
कम्पनी of महिलाओं watching stereoscopic छायाचित्र, painting by Jacob Spoel, before 1868.
A very जल्दी चित्रण of लोगों using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a तकनीक लिये बनाना or बढ़ाना the भ्रम of गहराई in an चित्र by अर्थात् of stereopsis लिये binocular vision.
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` कड़, ठोस '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to dekh '', `` to see ''.
Most stereoscopic विधि उपस्थित दो ऑफसेट बिंब separately to the left and right eye of the viewer.
These two-dimensional बिंब हैं तब संयुक्त in the दिमाग to दे the बोध of 3D depth.
This technique is विशिष्ट इससे 3d प्रदर्शक कि प्रदर्शक an चित्र in तीन पूरा आयाम, allowing the निरीक्षक to बढ़ाएँ सूचना about the 3-dimensional objects being displayed by head and eye movements.
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) थी the दूसरी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1797–1801 ), having पहले परोसा as the पहला वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States.
An अमरीकी founding पिता, he थी a statesman, राजनयिक, and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain.
Well educated, he was an Enlightenment राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically परिचय उसके प्रायः seminal विचार, दोनो in प्रकाशित works और in अक्षर to उसके wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
एडम्स आए to prominence in the जल्दी चरण of the American Revolution.
A lawyer and public figure in Boston, as a delegate इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, he निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted थामस जेफरसन in drafting the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, and was its primary advocate in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, और थी जिम्मेदार लिये obtaining vital सरकारी लोन from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts संविधान in 1780, जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on सरकारी, बहकावे अमरीकी political thought.
One of his greatest roles was as a न्यायधीश of अक्षर : in 1775, he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief, और 25 सालो बाद मनोनीत जॉन मार्शल to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन 's वाइस अध्यक्ष और उसके अपना चुनाव in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना federalist पार्टी led by उसके कड़वा दुश्मन Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the army and नेवी विशेषकर in the फेस of an undeclared नवल युद्ध ( पुकारा the `` quasi-war `` ) साथ फ़्रांस, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
In 1800, एडम्स थी पराजित लिये re-election by थामस जेफरसन and retired to Massachusetts.
he बाद resumed उसके दोस्ती with Jefferson.
He and उसके बीवी, अबीगैल एडम्स, संस्थापित an संपन्नता परिवार लकीर of राजनेता, राजनयिकों, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams थी the पिता of जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स, the छठे President of the United States.
His achievements have प्राप्त वृहद मान्यता in आधुनिक टाइम्स, हालांकि उसके योगदान यहूद नहीं initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the भवन कि आखिरकार became ज्ञात as the White House.
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त राज्य करेंसी.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander हैमिल्टन, is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक, जबकि the u.S. राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित on the reverse.
( Hamilton is one of दो non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल issued U.S. bills.
The other is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 विधेयक.
हैमिल्टन is एक of तभी चार लोगों प्रदर्शित on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) जो थी नहीं born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal टेंडर ) ; जार्ज meade, स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In addition, Kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter. )
All $ 10 bills जारी आज हैं संघीय आरक्षित टीप.
The Bureau of नक्काशी और मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 यहूद $ 10 बिल्स.
Ten डालर बिल्स हैं वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 विधेयक is the तभी u.S. पेपर करेंसी in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the बाएँ ( the $ 100,000 विधेयक प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
A rider on a Yamaha Waverunner xl performing a high-speed फेरे.
A jetboat is a नाव propelled by a जेट of जल ejected from the back of the craft.
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat कि उपयोग a propeller in the जल नीचे or पीछे the नाव, a jetboat draws the water from under the boat into a pump inside the boat, then expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) लिये आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और उथले नदियाँ of नई जीलैंड, specifically to overcome the प्रॉब्लम of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes, generally due to the अकुशल डिज़ाइन of the इकाई और the फैक्ट कि वे offered few लाभ over conventional propellers.
Unlike ये पिछला waterjet developments, ऐसे as campini 's और the hanley hydrojet, हैमिल्टन था a विशिष्ट need लिये a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow water, and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From this, the लोकप्रियता of the जेट ईकाई और jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it was found the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers for a wide range of vessel types, and as ऐसे, waterjets हैं प्रयुक्त widely आज लिये अनेक high-speed बरतन, सहित यात्री ferries, बचाव शिल्प, पैट्रोल नौकाएँ and offshore supply vessels.
Jetboats are highly maneuverable, and many can, from full गति, be reversed और brought to a रोकें भीतर छोटी अधिक than उनके अपना लंबाई, in a maneuver ज्ञात as a `` crash stop ''.
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is cut, the steering is turned sharply and the throttle खोली again, causing the नाव to स्पिन जल्दी around साथ a विशाल स्प्रे of water.
There is no engineering limit to the आकार of jetboats, हालांकि the वैध of उनके उपयोग depends a लॉट on the प्रकार of application.
Classic prop-drives are generally more कुशल और किफायती at कम speeds, up to परिचय, लकिन as नाव गति increases परे इस, the extra hull resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( etc. ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ).
भी, in परिस्थितियों साथ बहुत विशाल propellers turning at slow speeds ( ऐसे as tug नौकाएँ ), the equivalent size waterjet would be too big to be practical.
For these reasons, the vast बहुमत of waterjet इकाई हैं संस्थापित in high-speed बरतन और in particular परिस्थितियों जहाँ उथले draught, maneuverability, and load flexibility are main concerns.
The biggest jet-driven vessels are found in military use or the high-speed passenger/car फैरी उद्योग.
South Africa 's s ( लगभग long ) हैं the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far.
Even these German-built बरतन हैं सक्षम of performing `` क्रैश stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly पारिभाषित as सूजन of the uvea.
The uvea consists of the मध्य, pigmented, vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris, ciliary body, and choroid.
Uveitis requires an urgent referral और thorough परिक्षा by an ophthalmologist or optometrist साथ साथ तात्कालिक उपचार to control the inflammation.
eric `` e. ''
Murphy is a fictional अक्षर on the comedy-drama television series Entourage.
He is played by केविन connolly.
The Shining is a 1980 मनोवैज्ञानिक हॉरर फिल्मी उत्पादित और निर्देशित by स्टेनली Kubrick, co-written with novelist Diane Johnson, and starring Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall, Scatman Crothers, and Danny Lloyd.
the फिल्मी is आधारित on the स्टीफन King novel The Shining.
A writer, Jack torrance, takes a जॉब as an off-season कार्यवाहक at an isolated hotel.
His young son possesses मानसिक abilities और is समर्थ to देखिए बाते इससे the पास्ट और भविष्य, ऐसे as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel.
Soon after settling in, the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm, और जोकर धीरे becomes बहकावे by a अलौकिक उपस्थिति ; he उतरता into दीवानगी and attempts to murder his wife and son.
Unlike previous Kubrick films, which developed an audience gradually by भवन on word-of-mouth, the जगमगाता थी released as a mass-market फिल्मी, खोलने at पहला in बस दो शहरों on मेमोरियल दिन, तब nationwide a month later.
Although initial response to the film was mixed, later नाजुक मूल्यांकन थी अधिक अनुकूल और it is अभी viewed as a क्लासिक of the हॉरर genre.
Film director Martin Scorsese, writing in The रोज़ जानवर, क्रमित it as एक of the 11 scariest हॉरर फिल्मों of all time.
Film critics, film students, and Kubrick 's producer, जन harlan, have remarked on the विशाल influence the फिल्मी रै था on popular culture.
The initial European रिलीज of the जगमगाता थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the अमरीकी संस्करण, achieved by removing most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel.
Patio कोला बोतल
आँगन आहार कोला थी a ब्रांड of आहार सोडा introduced by Pepsi in 1963.
It was created in जवाब to आहार रीति कोला, जिससे थी the पहला आहार कोला on the market.
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake was आँगन आहार कोला 's प्रवक्ता.
In 1964, Patio released नारंगी, अंगूर, और रूट beer flavors.
This flavor line was not meant to compete साथ ब्रांड्स जैसे नारंगी crush, लकिन बल्कि भरण out the line.
Patio sodas were उपलब्धियाँ in the cold-bottle मार्केट : किराना और mom-and-pop stores.
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the समय, bottlers यहूद regionally franchised, और सम्बन्धित विज्ञापन थी necessarily local.
In 1964, आँगन आहार कोला became आहार Pepsi.
The newly ब्रांडेड आहार सोडा थी advertised alongside पेप्सी साथ the टैगलाइन `` पेप्सी either रास्ता '', जिससे replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor ''.
The short life span of Patio आहार कोला makes it a ग्रेट जोड लिये बोतल collectors.
Most of the बाकी आँगन लकीर of जायका यहूद phased आउट by the जल्दी 1970s, while a few survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic शारीरिक और organizational structures needed लिये the आपरेशन of a समाज or एंटरप्राइज़, or the सेवाएं and facilities necessary for an economy to function.
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected संरचनात्मक तत्व कि provide फ्रेमवर्क supporting an संपूर्ण ढांचा of development.
It is an महत्वपूर्ण पद लिये judging a देश or प्रदेश 's development.
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society, such as roads, bridges, water supply, sewers, विद्युत ग्रिड, दूरसंचार, और so forth, और can be पारिभाषित as `` the शारीरिक components of interrelated प्रणालियों providing commodities और सेवाएं अनिवार्य to enable, sustain, or बढ़ाएँ societal living conditions. ''
Viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services, and also the वितरण of समाप्त उत्पाद to बाज़ार, as खूब as मौलिक सोशल सेवाएं ऐसे as स्कूलों और अस्पताल ; लिये उदाहरण, सड़कें enable the transport of raw materials to a factory.
In military parlance, the पद refers to the इमारतें और स्थाई संस्थापना जरुरी for the support, redeployment, and operation of military forces.
To make it simple, अवसंरचना is anything कि is needed रोज, an रोज item.
A graphical प्रतिनिधित्व of the आदर्श इंसान karyotype
mitochondrial DNA.
Human genetic विभिन्नता is the जेनेटिक मतभेद दोनो भीतर and among populations.
There may be multiple variants of any दिए जीन in the इंसान जनसांख्यिकी ( जीनों ), अग्रणी to बहुरूपता.
Many genes are not बहुरूपी, अर्थ कि तभी a सिंगल allele is उपस्थित in the जनसांख्यिकी : the gene is then said to be fixed.
no दो इंसानो are genetically identical.
Even monozygotic twins, who develop इससे एक zygote, have infrequent जेनेटिक मतभेद due to mutations occurring during development and gene copy number variation.
Differences between individuals, even closely सम्बन्धित individuals, हैं the कुंजी to तकनीकों ऐसे as जेनेटिक फिंगरप्रिंटिंग.
alleles occur at अलग बारंबारता in अलग इंसान populations, साथ populations that are more geographically and ancestrally remote tending to differ more.
Causes of differences between individuals शामिल the एक्सचेंज of जीनों दौरान meiosis और various mutational events.
There are at least two reasons why जेनेटिक विभिन्नता exists between populations.
Natural चयन may confer an अनुकूली लाभ to individuals in a विशिष्ट पर्यावरण if an allele provides a competitive advantage.
Alleles under selection are likely to occur तभी in those भौगोलिक regions जहाँ वे confer an advantage.
the दूसरी प्रमुख कारण of जेनेटिक विभिन्नता is due to the high degree of neutrality of most mutations.
Most mutations do नहीं appear to have कोई चयनात्मक प्रभाव एक रास्ता or the other on the organism.
the प्रमुख कारण is जेनेटिक बहाव, इस is the प्रभाव of random changes in the gene pool.
In humans, founder effect and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have था an महत्वपूर्ण influence in न्यूट्रल मतभेद between populations.
The सिद्धान्त कि इंसानो recently migrated out of Africa supports this.
The study of human जेनेटिक विभिन्नता रै दोनो विकासवादी significance and medical applications.
It can help scientists understand ancient human जनसांख्यिकी migrations as खूब as कैसा अलग इंसान समूह हैं biologically related to one another.
For medicine, study of human जेनेटिक विभिन्नता may be महत्वपूर्ण क्युकी कुछ disease-causing alleles occur अधिक प्रायः in लोगों from specific geographic regions.
New findings show that प्रत्येक इंसान रै on औसत 60 नई mutations compared to their parents.
Apart from mutations, अनेक जीनों कि may have aided इंसानो in प्राचीन टाइम्स प्लेग humans today.
For example, it is suspected that genes कि allow इंसानो to अधिक efficiently प्रक्रम खाना हैं those कि मेक लोगों susceptible to obesity and diabetes today.
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. कैपिटल और the नेशनल मॉल at the करदाताओं कूच on वॉशिंगटन on September 12, 2009.
The Tea Party movement is an American political movement that advocates strict adherence to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, reducing u.S. government spending and taxes, and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit.
The movement has been called partly रूढ़िवादी, partly libertarian, और partly populist.
The movement has sponsored विरोध और समर्थित राजनैतिक उम्मीदवार since 2009.
The name of the movement is निकला इससे the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी of 1773, an iconic इवेंट in अमरीकी history.
Anti-tax प्रदर्शनकारियों in the संयुक्त राज्य have प्रायः referred to the असली बोस्टन Tea Party for inspiration.
References to the Boston Tea पार्टी यहूद भाग of कर दिन विरोध आयोजित throughout the 1990s and earlier.
By 2001, a custom had developed among some conservative activists of mailing चाय बैग to विधायक और अन्य officials as a symbolic act.
The currencies of Puerto Rico closely follow the ऐतिहासिक विकास of Puerto Rico.
As a उपनिवेश of स्पेन और the संयुक्त राज्य, प्यूर्टो रीको थी granted the use of both foreign and provincial currencies.
Following the Spanish colonization in 1502, प्यूर्टो रीको became an महत्वपूर्ण बंदरगाहों, साथ its own supply of gold.
However, as the mineral reserves भागा खाली भीतर the सदी, the द्वीपसमूह 's economy suffered.
The स्पेनी क्राउन जारी the situado mexicano, जिससे meant कि a semi-regular शिपमेंट of सुनहरा इससे the Viceroyalty of New Spain would be sent to the island, as a way to provide economic support.
between 1636 और 1637, फिलिप iv of स्पेन imposed a कर which had to be paid using a revenue stamp.
Inspired by this, Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766, becoming the पहला उपनिवेश to छपाई 8- रियल banknotes in the स्पेनी साम्राज्य और जिससे in the स्पेनी सरकारी 's स्वीकृति of subsequent issues.
The situado थी discontinued दौरान the 19th सदी, बनाना an आर्थिक संकट, as a परिणाम of Mexico gaining its independence from Spain.
साल्वाडोर meléndez bruna, the औपनिवेशिक राज्यपाल in दफ्तर, ordered the समस्या of प्रांतीय banknotes, creating the Puerto Rican peso.
However, मुद्रण of ये banknotes ceased after 1815.
दौरान the following दशकों, विदेशी सिक्के became the widespread currency.
In the 1860s और 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
On February 1, 1890, the banco español de प्यूर्टो रीको थी उदघाटन और began issuing banknotes.
The bank designed चार श्रेणी और लगाई तीन in circulation under Spanish rule.
In 1895, a royal डिक्री ordered the उत्पादन of प्रांतीय पेसो सिक्के.
On अगस्त 13, 1898, the spanish-american युद्ध ended साथ Spain ceding Puerto Rico to the United States.
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto रीको और जारी बिल्स समतुल्य to the संयुक्त राज्य डालर, creating the Puerto Rican dollar.
In 1902, the पहला नेशनल बैंको of पोर्टो रीको issued banknotes in a parallel manner.
दो अधिक श्रेणी were issued until 1913.
After प्यूर्टो रीको 's अर्थव्यवस्था और मौद्रिक प्रणाली थी fully एकीकृत into the संयुक्त राज्य ' economic and monetary system, the Puerto Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury.
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues, including commemorative banknotes, private करेंसी, और a क्वार्टर सिक्का designed साथ फोर्ट सैन फेलिप डेल morro in the फेस.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय कि is उत्पादित and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created और विकसित in 1893 और introduced as ब्रैड 's पेय, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
The किताब of ezekiel is the तीसरा of the latter नबियों in the यहूदी बाइबल, following the किताबे of यशायाह और यिर्मयाह and preceding the Book of the Twelve.
( The order is somewhat अलग in the ईसाई Old Testament ).
It derives its name from, और रिकॉर्ड the visions of, the 6th सदी bc पुजारी और नबी Ezekiel.
According to the book, the prophet, exiled in बाबुल, अनुभवी a श्रेणी of सात visions दौरान the 22 सालो इससे 593 to 571 bc, a काल जिससे spans the फाइनल विनाश of Jerusalem in 586.
The visions, and the book, are structured around three विषयवस्तु : ( 1 ) निर्णय on इसराईल ( अध्याय 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) निर्णय on the राष्ट्र ( अध्याय 25-32 ) ; और भविष्य blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ).
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख संयुक्त राज्य बंदरगाहों and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the नगर थी 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. Census.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 और थी the 46th largest in the United States.
The New orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, a larger व्यापार क्षेत्रफल, था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,214,932.
The city is named after Orléans, a city located on the Loire River in केन्द्र, फ़्रांस, और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके पृथक फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला, as खूब as इसके cross-cultural और बहुभाषी विरासत.
New ऑरलियन्स is भी प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके भोजन, म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), और इसके annual celebrations and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is प्रायः referred to as the `` सबसे unique '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern louisiana, straddling the मिसिसिपी नदी.
the नगर और ऑरलियन्स Parish ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट, plaquemines to the दक्षिण और जेफरसन to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of जिससे is शामिल in the नगर हद, झूठ to the उत्तर और झील Borgne lies to the east.
The National Birth Control League was a birth कंट्रोल संगठन in the संयुक्त राज्य.
It was founded in March 1915 by मरियम dennett, क्लारा gruening stillman और जेसी एशले.
Its main purpose थी to overturn the कानून जिससे बैन contraceptives from the U.S. mails.
Campaigns were आरोहित in नई यॉर्क, लकिन in 1919 the लीग थी disbanded और reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League.
Cancer, known medically as a malignant फुलाव, is a व्यापक समूह of विभिन्न रोगों, all involving unregulated cell growth.
In cancer, कोशिकाएं divide और grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade nearby parts of the body.
The cancer may भी स्प्रेड to अधिक दूर भाग of the देह through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
नहीं सब tumors हैं cancerous.
Benign tumors do नहीं grow uncontrollably, do नहीं invade neighboring ऊतकों, और do नहीं स्प्रेड throughout the body.
There are over 200 different known cancers कि पहुँचकर इंसानो.
Determining what causes कर्कट is जटिल.
Many things are known to increase the रिस्क of कर्कट, सहित तम्बाकू उपयोग, निश्चित infections, विकिरण, कमी of physical activity, obesity, and environmental pollutants.
These can directly damage genes or combine साथ मौजूदा जेनेटिक त्रुटियां भीतर कोशिकाएं to कारण the बीमारी.
लगभग पाँच to टेन प्रतिशत of cancers are entirely hereditary.
Cancer can be detected in a क्रमांक of तरीके, सहित the उपस्थिति of निश्चित लक्षण और लक्षण, screening tests, or medical imaging.
Once a possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic परिक्षा of a tissue sample.
Cancer is usually treated साथ कीमोथेरेपी, विकिरण चिकित्सा और सर्जरी.
The chances of surviving the बीमारी vary greatly by the प्रकार और स्थान of the कर्कट और the extent of disease at the start of treatment.
जबकि कर्कट can affect लोगों of सब आयु, और a few प्रकार of कर्कट हैं अधिक आम in children, the risk of developing cancer generally increases with age.
In 2007, cancer caused about 13 % of सब इंसान मौतों विश्वव्यापी ( 7.9 लाख ).
Rates are उठती as अधिक लोगों सजीव to an बूढ़ा आयु और as द्रव्यमान जीवनशैली changes occur in the developing world.
Spring ski touring on hardangervidda, Norway
Skiing is a recreational कार्यकलाप और प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in जिससे the भागीदार attaches long धावक or skis to बूट or जूते on the फीट और उपयोग them to travel on top of snow.
Aside from recreation and competition, स्कीइंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये सैन्य उद्देश्य और भी यात्राएं in क्षेत्रों कि experience heavy snowfall.
Many types of प्रतिस्पर्धी स्कीइंग कार्यक्रम हैं पहचाना by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ओलम्पिक कमेटी, and the International Ski Federation.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes, CB, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a अंग्रेजों अर्थशास्त्री जिनकी विचार have fundamentally प्रभावित the सिद्धान्त और अभ्यास of आधुनिक macroeconomics, और सूचित the आर्थिक नीतियों of governments.
He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the causes of कारोबार चक्र, और is widely माना to be एक of the संस्थापकों of आधुनिक macroeconomics और the सबसे influential economist of the 20th century.
His ideas are the basis for the school of thought known as keynesian अर्थशास्त्र, as खूब as इसके विभिन्न offshoots.
In many ways, subsequent developments in 20th सदी अर्थशास्त्र can be viewed as either भवन on keynes ' ideas or reacting against them.
In the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic सोच, overturning the पुरानी विचार of neoclassical अर्थशास्त्र कि आयोजित कि फ़्री बाज़ार होता, in the छोटी to मीडियम पद, automatically provide पूरा employment, as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands.
Keynes instead argued that aggregate माँग संकल्पित the overall स्तर of आर्थिक कार्यकलाप, और कि अपर्याप्त कुल demand could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment.
He advocated the use of fiscal and मौद्रिक उपायों to mitigate the प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of आर्थिक recessions and depressions.
following the outbreak of the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, keynes 's ideas concerning economic policy were adopted by leading Western economies.
In 1942, keynes थी awarded a खानदानी peerage as सामन्त Keynes of Tilton in the County of Sussex.
Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s और 1960s the कामयाबी of keynesian अर्थशास्त्र resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of problems that began to पहुँचकर the anglo-american economies इससे the प्रारंभ of the दशक, और partly क्युकी of critiques इससे मिल्टन फ्राइडमैन और अन्य अर्थशास्त्रियों जो यहूद pessimistic परिचय the क्षमता of सरकारें to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy.
however, the आगमन of the वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken in जवाब to the संकट by राष्ट्रपतियों जार्ज W. बुश और बराक ओबामा of the संयुक्त राज्य, प्रधान मंत्री गॉर्डन भूरा of the United Kingdom, and other heads of governments.
In 1999, Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और influential लोगों of the 20th सदी, commenting कि : `` उसके radical idea that governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
In addition to being an economist, Keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the British Eugenics समाज, a निदेशक of the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड, a संरक्षक of the कला और an आर्ट कलेक्टर, a भाग of the bloomsbury समूह of intellectuals, an सलाहकार to अनेक charitable trusts, a लेखक, a philosopher, a private investor, and a farmer.
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by jekuthiel sofer emulated the 1675 टेन आयतें at the Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue.
The Ten आयतें, भी ज्ञात as the decalogue, हैं a नियत of biblical कानून relating to आचार और इबादत, जिससे खेल a fundamental role in Judaism, Islam and Christianity.
They include instructions to worship तभी परमेश्वर, to रखना the sabbath पावन और prohibitions विरूद्ध idolatry, इनकार, हत्या, theft, deception and adultery.
अलग समूह follow थोड़ा अलग परंपराओं लिये interpreting और numbering them.
The Ten आयतें appear twice in the यहूदी बाइबल, in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy.
According to the story in Exodus, God inscribed उन्हें on दो स्टोन टैबलेट, जिससे he दिया to मूसा on माउंट sinai.
Modern स्कॉलरशिप रै मिला संभावित प्रभाव in hittite और mesopotamian कानून और treaties, लकिन is विभाजित over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them.
The discography of the English alternative चट्टान बैंड the smiths consists of चार स्टुडियो एल्बम, एक विस्तारित खेल ( ep ), एक सजीव एल्बम, टेन संकलन एल्बम, बीस singles, one video album and fourteen music videos on the Rough Trade, Sire and WEA record labels.
The band was formed in 1982 in मैनचेस्टर by vocalist morrissey, guitarist जॉनी marr, बास खिलाड़ी Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce.
Despite being championed by BBC Radio 1 disc jockey जॉन छिलके, the बैंड 's डेब्यू सिंगल, `` हाथ in दस्ताने `` ( may 1983 ), failed to chart.
Its follow-up, `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 ), met with critical acclaim and reached क्रमांक twenty-five on the uk singles चार्ट.
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984, as वे पहुँचे क्रमांक बारह in the uk साथ the `` कया अंतर करता it मेक ? `` सिंगल और पहुँचे क्रमांक दो on the uk एल्बम Chart with their debut album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
Their next three singles all reached the top twenty of the charts in the UK, helping to consolidate उनके पिछला चार्ट success.
The next studio album, Meat Is Murder ( 1985 ), reached the top of the British charts ; however, the only सिंगल to be released इससे the एल्बम, `` कि चुटकुला is n't मजेदार anymore `` ( 1985 ), विफल to break the UK Top 40.
Returning to form, The Smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than क्रमांक तीस in the uk और उनके तीसरा एल्बम, the महारानी is मुर्दे ( 1986 ), पहुँचे क्रमांक दो in the UK.
Despite the band 's chart success, Marr left the समूह in अगस्त 1987 due to a strained संबंध साथ morrissey.
Failing to find a बदलना, the smiths disbanded by the समय उनके फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम, strangeways, यहाँ We Come, was released in September that year.
Strangeways, Here We Come reached क्रमांक दो in the uk और became the बैंड 's highest-charting रिलीज in the United States when it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200.
In early 1992, WEA acquired the entire back catalogue of The Smiths and उत्पादित दो compilations – बेहतरीन... i और... बेहतरीन ii – the पहला of जिससे पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the UK Albums Chart.
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001, साथ a further संकलन, the ध्वनि of the smiths, released in नवम्बर 2008.
Gone with the Wind is a अनोखा लिखा by मार्गरेट मिशेल, पहला published in 1936.
It is often placed in the literary sub-genre of the ऐतिहासिक रोमांस novel.
However, it has been argued the novel is a `` near miss '' and करता नहीं contain सब of the तत्व of the रोमांस विधा, बनाना it बस a historical novel.
The story is set in Clayton County, जॉर्जिया, और अटलांटा दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और पुनर्निर्माण.
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled बेटी of a well-to-do वृक्षारोपण मालिक, जो जरूर उपयोग प्रत्येक अर्थात् at उसके निपटान to आइये आउट of the गरीबी वो finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea ''.
मार्गरेट मिशेल began लिखने गए साथ the हवा in 1926 to pass the समय जबकि recovering from an auto-crash injury that refused to heal.
In April 1935, Harold Latham of Macmillan, an एडिटर जो थी looking लिये नई fiction, पढ़ा कया वो था लिखा और देखी कि it could be a best-seller.
After Latham agreed to publish the book, मिशेल worked लिये another छह महीने checking the ऐतिहासिक सन्दर्भ, और rewrote the opening chapter several times.
Mitchell and उसके husband जॉन दलदल, a नक़ल एडिटर by व्यापार, संपादित the फाइनल version of the novel.
Mitchell wrote the book 's final moments पहला, और तब लिखा the कार्यक्रम कि led up to it.
As to what became of her lovers, Rhett and Scarlett, बाद the अनोखा ended, मिशेल किया नहीं जान, और कहा, `` लिये सब i जान, रहेट may have found someone else who was less difficult. ''
Mitchell प्राप्त the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार लिये fiction लिये the किताब in 1937.
The book was adapted into a 1939 अमरीकी film.
Gone with the Wind is the only अनोखा by मिशेल प्रकाशित दौरान उसके आजीवन.
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is एक of the दंत specialties पहचाना by the अमरीकी दंत संघ, royal कॉलेज of dentists of कनाडा, और royal australasian कॉलेज of दंत अध्येतावृत्ति, and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth.
Endodontists perform a किस्में of प्रक्रियाओं सहित endodontic चिकित्सा ( commonly ज्ञात as `` रूट कनाल चिकित्सा '' ), endodontic retreatment, surgery, treating cracked teeth, and treating dental trauma.
Root कनाल चिकित्सा is एक of the सबसे आम procedures.
If the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic ऊतक, और तंतुमय ऊतक ) becomes diseased or घायल, endodontic उपचार is जरूरी to save the tooth.
Serial Attached SCSI ( sas ) is a point-to-point सीरियल प्रोटोकॉल कि चालें आंकड़ा to और इससे कंप्यूटर भंडार डिवाइस such as hard drives and tape drives.
sas replaces the पुरानी समानांतर scsi ( सुनाया `` scuzzy '' ) बस प्रौद्योगिकी that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, like its पूर्ववर्ती, उपयोग the मानक scsi command set.
SAS offers पिछड़ा संगतता साथ second-generation sata drives.
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be कनेक्ट to sas backplanes, लकिन sas ड्राइव can नहीं कनेक्ट to sata backplanes.
The T10 technical committee of the International कमेटी लिये सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी मानकों ( incits ) develops और maintains the sas प्रोटोकॉल ; the scsi व्यापार Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology.
Part of the संवैधानिक प्रावधान as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is one of the eligibility requirements स्थापित in the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान लिये चुनाव to the office of President or Vice President.
This आवश्यकता थी intended to protect the nation from foreign influence.
The Constitution does नहीं define the phrase natural-born नागरिक, और विभिन्न राय have महरूम offered over time regarding its precise meaning.
A 2011 congressional शोध सेवा report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause रै महरूम उल्लेखित in गुजर in अनेक निर्णय of the संयुक्त राज्य परम् अदालत और निम्नतर न्यायालयों dealing साथ the सवाल of पात्रता लिये नागरिकता by जनम, लकिन the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen.
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' warner ( born जून 22, 1971 ) is a पूर्व American football player.
He played quarterback for three नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) टीमों : the st. लुई मेढ़ों, the नई यॉर्क दिग्गज, और the एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स.
He was originally signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted फ़्री एजेंट in 1994 बाद playing college football at Northern Iowa.
Warner would go on to be considered the best undrafted खिलाड़ी of सब समय, following a 12-year करियर regarded as एक of the महानतम कहानियां in एनएफएल इतिहास.
Warner first attained stardom while playing for the St. Louis Rams इससे 1998 to 2003, जहाँ he जीती दो एनएफएल mvp पुरस्कार in 1999 और 2001 as खूब as the सुपर कटोरी mvp award in Super Bowl XXXIV.
he led the 2008 एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स to सुपर कटोरी xliii ( the मताधिकार 's पहला सुपर कटोरी berth ), and owns the three highest single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history.
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest करियर passer दरजा of all-time ( 93.7 ), और the third-highest करियर पूर्णता प्रतिशत in एनएफएल इतिहास with 65.5 %.
In 13 career playoff games, Warner ranks पहला all-time in पूर्णता प्रतिशत ( 66.5 % ), गज प्रति attempt ( 8.55 ), and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ).
He also holds the highest completion percentage for a single game during the regular ऋतु, at 92.3 प्रतिशत ( 24/26 ), on सितंबर 20, 2009, विरूद्ध the jacksonville jaguars.
He घोषित उसके रिटायरमेंट on जनवरी 29, 2010. < संदर्भ name='cnn 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ; born May 26, 1953 ) is the जूनियर संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर इससे उत्तर कैरोलिना, in दफ्तर चूंकि जनवरी 2009.
previously वो परोसा in the उत्तर कैरोलिना Senate from 1999 to 2009.
She is a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी and is viewed as a moderate member of her party.
When Hagan defeated Republican incumbent एलिज़ाबेथ dole in the 2008 संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट चुनाव, वो became the पहला स्त्री to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election.
The Heisman Memorial ट्रॉफी पुरस्कार ( प्रायः ज्ञात colloquially as the heisman ट्रॉफी or the heisman ), is awarded annually to the खिलाड़ी deemed the most outstanding player in collegiate football.
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's athletic director, John heisman ( पूर्व भूरा विश्वविद्यालयों और विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया खिलाड़ी ; सिर फ़ुटबॉल कोच at oberlin कॉलेज, auburn विश्वविद्यालयों, clemson University, Rice University, and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football, basketball, and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ).
The award is presented by the Heisman Trophy Trust in जल्दी दिसम्बर पहले the postseason कटोरी खेल.
It is the oldest of अनेक overall पुरस्कार in कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल, सहित the मैक्सवेल Award, Walter Camp Award, and the AP Player of the Year.
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the तभी पुरस्कार to सम्मान the सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी, जबकि the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार और वाल्टर शिविर पुरस्कार recognize the best player, and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable player.
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the एकीकृत कमांड ढांचा लिये the बहुराष्ट्रीय सैन्य शक्तियां supporting the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War.
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of कोरियाई ( उत्तर कोरियाई or dprk ) invaded दक्षिण कोरियाई on जून 25, 1950, the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद अपनाया रेज़ोल्यूशन 82 कॉलिंग on उत्तर कोरियाई to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel.
On June 27, 1950, it adopted Resolution 83, recommending कि सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र provide सहायता to the गणतंत्र of कोरियाई `` to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security to the area ''.
Security Council Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, recommended that members providing सैन्य शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता to दक्षिण कोरियाई `` मेक ऐसे शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता उपलब्धियाँ to a एकीकृत कमांड under the United States of America ''.
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were `` संयुक्त राष्ट्र शक्तियां '', और संयुक्त राष्ट्र itself could be माना a belligerent, in अभ्यास the संयुक्त राष्ट्र exercised no कंट्रोल over the कॉम्बैट शक्तियां, which were controlled by the United States.
Most observers concluded that the शक्तियां अंतर्गत the unc यहूद नहीं in विधि संयुक्त राष्ट्र सैनिकों, and the acts of the UNC were not the acts of the United Nations.
The UNC can be regarded as an गठबंधन of नेशनल सेना, ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the सामूहिक सही of self-defense.
On August 29, 1950, the British Commonwealth 's 27th infantry ब्रिगेड arrived at बुसान to जुड़ें the unc, जिससे जबतक तब शामिल तभी rok और u.S. शक्तियां.
The 27th ब्रिगेड स्थानांतरित into the naktong नदी लकीर west of Daegu.
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia, Belgian United Nations Command, Canada, Colombia, इथियोपिया, फ़्रांस, यूनानियों, ध्वज, the नीदरलैंड्स, नई जीलैंड, the फिलीपीन, थाईलैंड और तुर्कों.
The संघ of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी provided एयर इकाई जिससे लड़ा alongside the एयर forces of other member nations.
Denmark, इण्डिया, नार्वे, और स्वीडन provided चिकित्सा units.
Italy provided a hospital, भी हालांकि it थी नहीं a un सदस्य.
The United Nations Command and the chinese-north कोरियाई कमांड हस्ताक्षरित the कोरियाई armistice अनुबंध on 27 जुलाई 1953, ending the heavy fighting.
the armistice अनुबंध स्थापित the सैन्य armistice आयोग ( मैक ), consisting of representatives of the two signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms.
The North korean-chinese मैक रै महरूम replaced by panmumjon प्रतिनिधि under exclusive North Korean management.
Regular meetings have been stopped, although duty अधिकारियों of संयुक्त सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल, commonly ज्ञात as the युद्धविराम गाँव of panmunjom, इससे प्रत्येक side meet regularly.
Lincoln Heights is an अमरीकी परिवार नाटक टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय एडी सटन, a मिशन विस्टा पुलिस अधिकारी जो चालें उसके परिवार वापस to उसके old neighborhood, Lincoln Heights, to start a new life and to help out his old neighborhood.
It is a dangerous place to उठाएँ a परिवार, और through the अनेक ट्रायल the परिवार goes through, वे जल्द सीख कि settling in is not as easy as it seems.
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life as a street cop in लॉस एंजिल्स, उसके बच्चे कोशिश to अनुरूप in at उनके नई स्कूलों और with their new neighbors.
The दिखाएँ premiered जनवरी 8, 2007 on the एबीसी परिवार संजाल साथ 13 episodes ordered for the first season.
It was approved for a second ऋतु, जिससे premiered सितंबर 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' song, Say OK had been used in a वाणिज्यिक to प्रचार the second season.
To promote the third season, they दिखाया क्लिप्स of cassie और चार्ल्स 's संबंध to the सोंग, crush by the अमरीकी आइडल 's सातवाँ ऋतु runner-up, David Archuleta.
To promote season 4, वे 're using the सोंग, हिमस्खलन by Marie Digby.
the दिखाएँ 's थीम सोंग थी लिखा और performed by bassist Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard.
on जनवरी 29, 2010, एबीसी परिवार घोषित the रद्दीकरण of the series after four seasons.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक देह अंतर्गत a आम नाम, ढांचा, और doctrine within Christianity.
In the Orthodox परंपरा, चर्च हैं विभाजित प्रायः साथ जातीय और भाषाई लाइनों, into separate churches and traditions.
technically, विभाजन between एक समूह और another हैं पारिभाषित by doctrine और church authority.
Issues such as the प्रकृति of यीशु, the प्राधिकार of अपोस्टोलिक उत्तराधिकार, eschatology, और papal primacy पृथक one denomination from another.
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members, over half of all Christians worldwide, making it the largest denomination लिये कोई धर्म विश्वव्यापी ( हालांकि the गिरिजाघर करता नहीं दृश्य itself as a denomination, but as the original pre-denominational church ).
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide, and साथ the catholics, protestants, anglicans, और अन्य closely सम्बन्धित denominations comprise पश्चिमी christianity.
The Eastern Orthodox गिरिजाघर, प्राच्य परंपरागत चर्च और the assyrian गिरिजाघर of the ईस्ट हैं माना Eastern Christian denominations.
Western ईसाई denominations जीतना in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय and its former colonies.
Eastern Christian denominations हैं represented ज़्यादातर in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, the मध्य ईस्ट and North Africa.
ईसाइयों have विभिन्न doctrines परिचय the गिरिजाघर, the देह of वफादार कि they believe was established by Jesus Christ, and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider प्रत्येक of themselves solely to faithfully represent the एक पावन कैथोलिक और अपोस्टोलिक गिरिजाघर to the exclusion of the other.
Protestants separated from the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर क्युकी of theologies और practices कि वे माना to be in उल्लंघन of their interpretation.
Generally, members of the various denominations acknowledge each अन्य as ईसाइयों, at तनिक to the extent कि वे have mutually पहचाना baptisms और acknowledge historically परंपरागत दृश्य सहित the देवत्व of यीशु और doctrines of सिन and salvation, even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches.
Since the reforms surrounding वेटिकन ii, the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर रै referred to प्रोटोस्टेंट समुदायों as `` denominations '', जबकि reserving the पद `` गिरिजाघर '' लिये अपोस्टोलिक चर्च, सहित the पूर्वी परंपरागत ( see subsistit in and branch theory ).
There हैं however कुछ non-denominational ईसाइयों जो do नहीं follow any particular branch.
The panda ( ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and white cat-foot '' ), also known as the दानव पांडा to फर्क it इससे the unrelated रेड पांडा, is a भालू देशी to central-western and south western China.
It is easily recognized by the विशाल, distinctive ब्लैक धब्बे around इसके आँखें, over the कानों, और आरपार इसके round body.
Though it belongs to the order carnivora, the पांडा 's आहार is 99 % बाँसुरी.
Pandas in the wild will occasionally खा अन्य grasses, जंगली tubers, or भी मांस in the रूप of पक्षियों, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, they may receive honey, eggs, fish, yams, झाड़ी पत्ते, संतरे, or केले साथ साथ विशेषकर prepared खाना.
the दानव पांडा जीवनदान in a few पहाड़ सीमाएँ in सेंट्रल चीन, मुख्यतः in सिचुआन प्रांत, but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces.
As a result of farming, वनों और अन्य विकास, the पांडा रै महरूम चलित आउट of the lowland areas where it once lived.
The panda is a conservation reliant endangered प्रजाति.
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity अंदर चीन और another 27 बाहर the देश.
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows कि वहीँ हैं परिचय 1,590 individuals जीना in the जंगली, जबकि a 2006 पढ़ाई via डीएनए विश्लेषण अनुमानित कि इस फिगर could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000.
Some reports also show that the number of pandas in the जंगली is on the वृद्धि.
However, the आईयूसीएन करता नहीं मानना वहीँ is पर्याप्त certainty yet to reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable.
While the dragon has often served as China 's नेशनल emblem, internationally the पांडा appears at least as commonly.
As such, it is becoming widely प्रयुक्त भीतर चीन in अंतरराष्ट्रीय contexts, लिये उदाहरण the पाँच fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics.
the पतंग धावक is a 2007 अमरीकी नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by मार्क forster आधारित on the अनोखा of the same name by Khaled Hosseini.
It tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan ज़िला of काबुल, जो is tormented by the guilt of abandoning उसके dost हसन, the बेटे of उसके father 's Hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events, from the fall of the monarchy in अफगानिस्तान through the सोवियत सैन्य हस्तक्षेप, the द्रव्यमान exodus of अफगान शरणार्थियों to पाकिस्तानी और the संयुक्त राज्य, और the तालिबान regime.
Though most of the फिल्मी is नियत in अफगानिस्तान, ये भाग यहूद ज़्यादातर शॉट in काश्गर, चीन, due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time.
The majority of the फिल्मी 's संवाद is in जमींदारी, साथ the remainder spoken in English.
The child अभिनेताओं हैं देशी अध्यक्षों, लकिन अनेक वयस्क अभिनेताओं had to learn Dari.
Filming wrapped up on December 21, 2006, and the film was अपेक्षित to be released on नवम्बर 2, 2007.
However, after चिंता लिये the सुरक्षा of the यंग अभिनेताओं in the फिल्मी due to fears of हिंसक reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in which they appear, its release date was pushed back six weeks to December 14, 2007.
The Kite Runner was released on dvd on कूच 25, 2008.
A HD DVD release was announced लिये the वही तिथि, लकिन थी रद्द following the format 's demise.
The film थी मनोनीत लिये the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Foreign Language Film in 2007.
The film 's स्कोर by अल्बर्टो इग्लेसियस थी मनोनीत लिये बेहतरीन असली स्कोर at the सुनहरी ग्लोब्स and the Academy Awards.
The legality of कैनबिस varies इससे देश to देश.
कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस is illegal in सबसे देशों और रै महरूम चूंकि the शुरूआत of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, अनेक देशों have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of cannabis, particularly in North America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is विधिक or effectively विधिक in the नीदरलैंड्स, उत्तर कोरियाई और होता be in the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो और Washington if it were not for federal law, which governs persons in all states.
The medicinal use of कैनबिस is विधिक in a क्रमांक of देशों, सहित कनाडा, the चेक Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the राज्य स्तर और कुछ राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of कैनबिस और replaced उन्हें साथ a नियामक शासन, भी contrary to संघीय statute.
कुछ देशों have कानून कि हैं नहीं as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य लकिन, अलावा इससे the देशों that offer access to medical marijuana, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in कुछ देशों than अन्य in लिहाज़ to the cultivation, उपयोग, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened दंड लिये कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस, बनाना it दंडनीय by confiscation और a ठीक, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for यंग or बारंबार उपयोक्ता, साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य और a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
वहीँ हैं भी परिवर्तन in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक direction as in Canada.
ड्रग परीक्षण to detect कैनबिस हैं increasingly आम in अनेक देशों and have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs.
However, simple कब्ज़ा can carry long कारावास वाक्य in कुछ देशों, विशेषकर in भाग of ईस्ट एशिया और southeast एशिया जहाँ the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
loxahatchee is a जातियाँ स्तिथ in ताड़ Beach County, Florida, United States.
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and उत्तरपश्चिम of royal ताड़ बीच, फ्लोरिडा और लगभग वेस्ट of वेस्ट ताड़ बीच.
Loxahatchee is also the name of the Post Office that serves इस क्षेत्रफल, जिससे is अंतर्गत the zip कोड of 33470.
The name loxahatchee अर्थात् `` कछुआ नदी. ''
loxahatchee is स्तिथ भीतर the भारतीय trails सुधार ज़िला and the Loxahatchee Groves Water Control District.
Lion Country safari, a drive-through safari पार्क, is स्तिथ in loxahatchee.
In 2006, the state of Florida approved incorporation of part of loxahatchee as the कस्बा of loxahatchee groves to become the 38th नगरपालिका in ताड़ बीच काउंटी.
The main reason for incorporating was to better protect the क्षेत्रफल इससे बुवाई विकास और to बचाना the ग्रामीण अक्षर of the पड़ोस.
Perhaps the most rural area within a बंद निकटता to वेस्ट ताड़ बीच, साथ लॉट आकार दायरा इससे 1-20 acres.
Along with The Acreage, it is notable for loose land प्रतिबंध और the देशी और exotic एनिमल उपस्थिति is काफी notable.
Seminole लकीरें ऊँची स्कूल serves the area.
The Canadian नागरिकता परीक्षण is a परीक्षण, administered by नागरिकता और आव्रजन कनाडा ( सीआईसी ), कि is जरूरी लिये सब आवेदकों लिये कनाडाई नागरिकता जो हैं aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship.
The test is available in दोनो फ्रेंच और अंग्रेज़ी, the official languages of Canada.
Renaissance Cruises, originally founded in 1989 स्वामित्व by fearnley & eger rederi in ओस्लो - नार्वे, बाद खरीदा by एडवर्ड rudner ( संस्थापक of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War.
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean, the यूनानी isles, tahiti और the दक्षिण प्रशांत, उत्तरी यूरोपीय और scandinavia.
the कम्पनी ceased परिचालन on 25 सितंबर 2001 और accommodated up to 220,000 guests in 2000.
While the company had been in poor financial health for quite some time, the आर्थिक मनाही resulting इससे the सितंबर 11th आतंकवादी हमले हैं credited साथ the निधन of this cruise line.
The fleet is सूचीबद्ध अंतर्गत सूची of क्रूज जहाजों.
It was headquartered in फोर्ट lauderdale, Florida.
Epithelium is एक of the चार मौलिक प्रकार of एनिमल ऊतक, साथ with connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue.
Epithelial ऊतकों लकीर the कैविटी और सतहों of structures throughout the body, and also form many glands.
Functions of epithelial कोशिकाएं शामिल स्राव, चयनात्मक अवशोषण, सुरक्षा, transcellular transport and detection of sensation.
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) अर्थात् `` on '' or `` upon '', और `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
Epithelial layers are avascular, so they must receive nourishment via diffusion of substances इससे the underlying संयोजी ऊतक, through the तहखाने झिल्ली.
Epithelia can भी be व्यवस्थित into क्लस्टर of कोशिकाएं कि फलन as बहिःस्रावी और अंतःस्रावी glands.
Kent E. Hovind ( born January 15, 1953 ) is an अमरीकी यंग धरती creationist.
Hovind has बोला on सृष्टि विज्ञान और रै aimed to मनाना श्रोता to अस्वीकृत theories of एवोल्यूशन, भूभौतिकी, और cosmology in एहसान of उसके निर्वचन of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible.
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and some of his ideas have also been criticized by यंग धरती creationist संगठन ऐसे as जवाब in उत्पत्ति.
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991, और अक्सर spoke on यंग धरती creationism at seminars at निजी स्कूलों और चर्च, debates, और on रेडियो और टेलीविज़न प्रसारण.
Since जनवरी 2007, hovind रै महरूम सेवारत a ten-year थाना वाक्य बाद होने convicted of 58 संघीय रिश्तो, सहित 12 कर offenses, one count of obstructing federal agents, and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions.
He is incarcerated at the Federal Correctional संस्था at बर्लिन, नई हैम्पशायर.
Bride साथ बिंदी सजा forehead
A bindi (, from Sanskrit bindu, meaning `` a drop, छोटी कण, बिन्दु '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in तमिल, तेलुगु, और मलयालम ) is a माथे सजावट worn in दक्षिण एशिया ( विशेषकर India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia.
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the बीच of the माथे बंद to the eyebrows, लकिन it can भी consist of a चिह्न or टुकड़ा of आभूषण worn at this location.
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 थी आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 2, 2010, to elect the राज्यपाल of नई यॉर्क, to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011.
लाज़िम लोकतांत्रिक राज्यपाल दाउद paterson, निर्वाचित as लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल in 2006 as the कार्यशील mate of former Governor Eliot Spitzer, chose not to run for a full-term.
On November 2, New York Attorney सामान्य और डेमोक्रेट एंड्रयू cuomo पराजित रिपब्लिकन Carl Paladino.
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes, allowing the नई यॉर्क ग्रीन पार्टी to be सूचीबद्ध on the बैलट लिये the अगला 4 सालो.
The प्रमुख डाल of ड्रैगन बॉल at the समाप्त of the manga.
The Dragon Ball manga and anime श्रेणी सुविधाएँ an extensive डाल of वर्ण निर्मित by अकिरा toriyama.
The series takes प्लेस in a fictional ब्रह्मांड, the वही as toriyama 's पिछला श्रेणी dr. slump, और फ़ॉलो the adventures of martial कलाकार बेटे Goku from childhood to adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls, used to summon a wish-granting dragon.
During the कोर्स of the स्टोरी, he मुठभेड़ों allies ऐसे as bulma, yamcha, kuririn और trunks, विरोधियों ऐसे as tenshinhan, Piccolo and Vegeta, and enemies such as Freeza and Cell.
जबकि अनेक of the वर्ण हैं इंसानो साथ superhuman शक्ति and/or अलौकिक abilities, the cast also includes anthropomorphic animals and later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
The series also includes depictions of the आफ्टरलाइफ, साथ अनेक वर्ण होने देवताओं कि govern the ब्रह्मांड.
250px
The Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory, known as Comancheria, consisted of present day eastern New Mexico, southern Colorado, northeastern एरिज़ोना, दक्षिणी कान्सास, सब of ओक्लाहोमा, और सबसे of उत्तरपश्चिम टेक्सास.
The comanche लोगों हैं नामांकित in the federally पहचाना comanche Nation, in Oklahoma.
historically, the comanches यहूद hunter-gatherers with a horse culture.
There may have been as अनेक as 45,000 comanches in the लेट 18th सदी.
Today, the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment संख्याएँ 15,191 साथ लगभग 7,763 सदस्यों residing in the lawton – फोर्ट sill और surrounding क्षेत्रों of दक्षिणपश्चिम Oklahoma.
the comanche स्वदेश homecoming powwow is आयोजित annually in Walters, Oklahoma in mid-July.
The Comanche spoke the comanche भाषा, a numic भाषा of the uto-aztecan परिवार, sometimes वर्गीकृत as a Shoshone dialect ; however, only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today.
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार -winning अमरीकी author Edith Wharton.
It is set in the fictitious कस्बा of starkfield, मैसाचुसेट्स.
The अनोखा थी adapted into a फिल्मी, Ethan Frome, in 1993.
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American टेलीविज़न स्टुडियो स्तिथ in the टाइम्स वर्गाकार पड़ोस of the मैनहटन बरो of New York City, New York.
The studio is best known as the production home of ABC News ' Good Morning America ( GMA ), a morning न्यूज और बात कार्यक्रम और खण्ड लिये जीएमए on एबीसी न्यूज Now.
The Las Vegas Strip संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated नरम पेय बेची in स्टोर्स, रेस्तरां, और वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक देश except Cuba and North Korea.
It is उत्पादित by the coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया, और is प्रायः referred to बस as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton, coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler, जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन साथ filtered जल और sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां और खाना सेवा वितरकों.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on अवसर, introduced अन्य कोला पेय under the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, coca-cola शून्य, coca-cola वैनिला, और खास संस्करण साथ lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola थी the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान ब्रांड.
Types of bar-lines
In musical notation, a bar ( or measure ) is a segment of time defined by a दिए क्रमांक of बीट्स, प्रत्येक of जिससे हैं आबंटित a particular note value.
Dividing music into bars provides नियमित सन्दर्भ अंक to pin पाइंट स्थितियाँ within a piece of music.
It भी makes लिखा म्यूज़िक easier to follow, चूंकि प्रत्येक बार of staff symbols can be read and played as a batch.
typically, a टुकड़ा consists of अनेक बार of the वही लंबाई, और in आधुनिक musical संकेतन the क्रमांक of बीट्स in प्रत्येक बार is निर्दिष्ट at the शुरूआत of the स्कोर by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ), while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ).
The word bar is more common in British English, and the word measure is अधिक आम in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी, हालांकि संगीतकारों generally समझे both usages.
In American English, although the words bar and measure are often used interchangeably the सही उपयोग of the शब्द 'bar ' refers तभी to the लंबवत लकीर itself, जबकि the शब्द 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars.
In international usage, it is equally सही to बोलो of बार संख्याएँ और माप संख्याएँ, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
Along the वही लाइनों, it is हिकमत to आरक्षित the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ etc. for beats only ; bars चाहिए be referred to by नाम in पूरा.
the पहला metrically पूरा माप भीतर a टुकड़ा of music is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the piece begins साथ an anacrusis ( an अधूरी माप at the सिर of a टुकड़ा of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
The 19.9 MW gemasolar सौर संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति 24 hours a day.
Solar उर्जा, रौशन लाइट और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य, रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar उर्जा technologies शामिल सौर हीटिंग, सौर photovoltaics, सौर थर्मल विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, बदलें और distribute solar energy.
Active सौर तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण, और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy सुरक्षा through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce प्रदूषण, निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
ये लाभ are global.
Hence the additional costs of the प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
प्राथमिक परवाह may be provided in community health centres.
प्राथमिक परवाह is the स्वास्थ्य परवाह दिए by a स्वास्थ्य care provider.
Typically this provider acts as the प्रिंसिपल पाइंट of परामर्श लिये मरीजों भीतर a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणाली और निर्देशांक अन्य specialists कि the patient may need.
Such a professional can be a primary care physician, such as a general practitioner or family चिकित्सक, or depending on the मोहल्ले, स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली संगठन, और रोगी 's discretion, वे may देखिए a फार्मासिस्ट, a चिकित्सक सहायक, a नर्स practitioner, a नर्स ( ऐसे as in the संयुक्त किंगडम ), a नैदानिक अधिकारी ( ऐसे as in भाग of Africa ), or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ).
Depending on the nature of the health कंडीशन, मरीजों may तब be referred लिये द्वितीयक or tertiary care.
`` Ocean एवेन्यू '' is a सोंग अंकित by American pop punk group Yellowcard.
It was released in फ़रवरी 2004 as the दूसरी सिंगल इससे समंदर एवेन्यू and the third track.
It is known for bringing them into the मुख्यधारा, as it प्राप्त numerous spins on एमटीवी and increasing radio airplay.
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville, Florida, the band 's stomping grounds near their ऊँची स्कूल, डगलस एंडरसन स्कूल of the कला, और another गली उल्लेखित in the सोंग, चेरी गली.
The name of Ocean एवेन्यू in jacksonville is दरअसल बीच Boulevard.
They बाएँ उनके असली आधार पीछे when they moved to Los Angeles.
The सोंग थी प्रदर्शित on the much म्यूज़िक संकलन album Big Shiny Tunes 9.
A मनोचिकित्सक is a चिकित्सक जो specializes in psychiatry.
A psychiatrist specializes in the उपचार of दिमागी disorders.
psychiatrists हैं प्राधिकृत to prescribe आयुर्विज्ञान, conduct शारीरिक examinations, अनुक्रम और interpret प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण, उपयोग मनोचिकित्सा और may अनुक्रम दिमाग इमेजिंग अध्ययन ऐसे as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ), magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ), and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning.
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( जो ) परिभाषा of स्वास्थ्य as a राज्य of पूरा शारीरिक, दिमागी और सोशल well-being, और नहीं merely the अनुपस्थिति of बीमारी or infirmity, reproductive स्वास्थ्य, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, functions and system at all stages of life.
Reproductive health, therefore, implies that people are able to have a responsible, satisfying and safer sex जीवन और कि वे have the काबिलियत to reproduce और the स्वतंत्रता to decide if, जब और कैसा प्रायः to do so.
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have अभिगम to सुरक्षित, प्रभावी, सस्ती और स्वीकार्य विधि of जनम कंट्रोल ; भी अभिगम to उचित स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं of यौन, reproductive आयुर्विज्ञान और क्रियान्वयन of स्वास्थ्य शिक्षा कार्यक्रम to तनाव the महत्व of महिलाओं to go सकुशल through गर्भावस्था और प्रसव could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant.
On the other hand individuals do फेस inequalities in reproductive स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं.
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic औकात, शिक्षा स्तर, आयु, नस्ल, religion, and resources available in their environment.
It is possible for example, कि कम आय individuals कमी the संसाधन लिये उचित स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं and the knowledge to know what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive health.
According to the WHO, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health खाते लिये 20 % of the वैश्विक बोझ of ill-health लिये महिलाओं, और 14 % for men. ''
Reproductive health is a भाग of यौन और reproductive health and rights.
इस is a सूची of एपीसोड लिये the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी the सुइट जीवन on डेक, which aired for three seasons on Disney Channel from September 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range of Intel 's उपभोक्ता 64-bit x86-64 single-, दुआl-, और quad-core microprocessors आधारित on the कोर microarchitecture.
The single- and dual-core models are single- die, whereas the quad-core मॉडल comprise दो मरता, प्रत्येक containing दो cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the pentium ब्रांड to the mid-range मार्केट, और reunified लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप cpu लाइनों, जिससे previously था been divided into the Pentium 4, Pentium D, and Pentium M brands.
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 जुलाई 2006, comprising the सोलो ( single-core ), duo ( dual-core ), क्वाड ( quad-core ), और in 2007, the Extreme ( dual- or quad-core CPUs for enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro प्रौद्योगिकी ( designed लिये व्यवसायों ) शामिल the dual-core और quad-core शाखाओं.
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ), the उच्चतम स्तर of पेशेवर अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल in the संयुक्त राज्य, culminating a ऋतु that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year.
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to पहचानो प्रत्येक खेल, बल्कि than the साल in जिससे it is held.
For example, Super Bowl I was played on January 15, 1967, following the 1966 नियमित ऋतु, जबकि सुपर कटोरी xlvii थी निभाई on फ़रवरी 3, 2013, following the 2012 season.
The खेल थी निर्मित as भाग of a विलय अनुबंध between the एनएफएल and its then-rival league, the American Football League ( AFL ).
It was agreed that the two leagues ' चैंपियन टीमों होता खेल in an afl–nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप खेल जबतक the विलय was to officially begin in 1970.
After the विलय, प्रत्येक लीग थी redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन ``, और the खेल थी तब निभाई between the conference champions.
Currently, the National Football Conference ( nfc ) लीड the श्रेणी साथ 25 विन्स to 22 विन्स लिये the अमरीकी Football Conference ( AFC ).
The day on which the Super Bowl is निभाई, अभी माना by कुछ a de facto अमरीकी नेशनल अवकाश, is called `` Super Bowl Sunday ``.
It is the second-largest day लिये u.S. खाना खपत, बाद थैंक्सगिविंग दिन.
In addition, the Super Bowl has frequently been the सबसे देखी अमरीकी टेलीविज़न ब्रॉडकास्ट of the year.
Super Bowl XLV, played in 2011, became the most-watched अमरीकी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम in इतिहास, आरेखण an औसत दर्शक of 111 लाख दर्शक और लेने over the स्पॉट आयोजित by the पिछला साल 's सुपर कटोरी, जिससे itself था taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H.
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting कार्यक्रम in the संसार, लगभग सब होने उत्तर अमरीकी ऑडियंस, और is दूसरी to संघ फ़ुटबॉल ’s यूईएफए champions लीग final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide.
Because of its high viewership, वाणिज्यिक airtime दौरान the सुपर कटोरी ब्रॉडकास्ट is the most expensive of the year.
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on the सुपर कटोरी, कंपनियाँ regularly develop उनके सबसे महंगी विज्ञापन लिये इस ब्रॉडकास्ट.
As a result, watching और discussing the ब्रॉडकास्ट 's commercials रै become a significant aspect of the event.
In addition, many लोकप्रिय गायकों और संगीतकारों have performed दौरान the इवेंट 's pre-game और मध्यांतर ceremonies क्युकी of the exposure.
फिओना is a feminine given name.
The name Fiona was invented, and first used, by the स्कॉटिश कवि जेम्स macpherson ( 1736–96 ), लेखक of the ossian कविताएं, जिससे he claimed यहूद अनुवाद इससे प्राचीन गैलिक स्त्रोत ( स्त्रोत, जब challenged, he never produced ).
The name थी subsequently प्रयुक्त as a pseudonym by विलियम शार्प ( 1855–1905 ), जो authored several romantic works under the name `` Fiona Macleod ''.
The name has since become popular in इंग्लैण्ड, स्कॉटलैंड और आयरलैंड.
The name is considered to be a Latinised form of the गैलिक शब्द fionn, अर्थ `` white '', `` fair ''.
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the Irish-language name Fíona, हालांकि ये names हैं वरना unrelated ( as fíona is निकला इससे an तत्व अर्थ `` बेल '' ).
There is also a modern tendency to equate the प्रामाणिक स्कॉटिश गैलिक feminine नाम Fionnghal with Fiona.
The name Fiona is rising in लोकप्रियता विशेषकर in जर्मनी -speaking countries.
Fiona was the 49th सबसे लोकप्रिय नाम लिये baby लड़कियों born in 2008 in जर्मनी.
Fiona was tied for तीसरा प्लेस in the रैंकिंग of सबसे लोकप्रिय names लिये baby लड़कियों born in the छोटा principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
The name was the 347th most लोकप्रिय नाम लिये लड़कियों born in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008, जहाँ it रै क्रमित among the शीर्ष 1,000 सबसे लोकप्रिय names लिये लड़कियों चूंकि 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999.
The name Fiona रै महरूम विशेषकर लोकप्रिय लिये लड़कियों of एशियाई or प्रशांत islander descent in नई यॉर्क City, where Fiona ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from those groups in 2007.
Many languages are used, or historically have महरूम प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त States.
the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त language is English.
वहीँ हैं भी अनेक भाषाएं स्वदेशी to उत्तर अमेरिका or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region.
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from Europe, Asia, or other parts of the world make up a large portion of the languages currently used ; अनेक भाषाएं, सहित creoles और चिह्न भाषाएं, have भी विकसित in the संयुक्त राज्य.
लगभग 337 भाषाएं हैं बोला or हस्ताक्षरित by the जनसांख्यिकी, of जिससे 176 are indigenous to the area.
fifty-two भाषाएं formerly बोला in the country 's territory are now extinct.
The variety of English spoken in the संयुक्त राज्य is ज्ञात as अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी.
English is the de facto नेशनल भाषा of the संयुक्त राज्य, साथ 80 % of the जनसांख्यिकी claiming it as a mother tongue, and some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very well ''.
However, no आधिकारिक भाषा exists at the संघीय level.
There have been several proposals to make English the नेशनल भाषा in amendments to आव्रजन सुधार बिल्स, लकिन none of ये बिल्स रै become विधि with the amendment intact.
The situation is quite varied at the राज्य और territorial स्तर, साथ कुछ राज्य mirroring the संघीय नीति of adopting no आधिकारिक भाषा in a de jure क्षमता, अन्य adopting अंग्रेज़ी अलोन, अन्य officially adopting English as well as local languages, and still others adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism.
Spanish is the second most common भाषा in the देश, और is बोला by over 12 % of the जनसांख्यिकी.
The United States holds the world 's पांचवां largest spanish-speaking जनसांख्यिकी, outnumbered तभी by मैक्सिको, Spain, Colombia, and Argentina.
Throughout the Southwestern United राज्य, long-established spanish-speaking समुदायों coexist साथ विशाल संख्याएँ of अधिक हाल Hispanophone immigrants.
Although अनेक नई लैटिन अमरीकी आप्रवासियों हैं कम than धाराप्रवाह in अंग्रेज़ी, nearly all second-generation Hispanic Americans speak English fluently, while only about half still speak Spanish.
According to the 2000 us जनसांख्यिकी, लोगों of जर्मनी ancestry मेक up the largest single ethnic group in the United States, and the German language ranks fifth.
Italian, Polish, and French are still widely spoken among populations descending इससे आप्रवासियों इससे those देशों in the जल्दी 20th सदी, लकिन the उपयोग of ये भाषाएं is dwindling as the पुरानी पीढियां die.
Russian is also spoken by अप्रवासी populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over एक लाख अध्यक्षों प्रत्येक in the संयुक्त राज्य, लगभग entirely भीतर recent immigrant populations.
Both languages, along with the किस्में of the चाइनीज भाषा, जापानी, और कोरियाई, हैं अभी प्रयुक्त in चुनावों in अलास्का, California, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, Texas, and Washington.
Native American languages are spoken in छोटी pockets of the देश, लकिन ये populations हैं अवरोहण, और the भाषाएं are almost never widely used outside of reservations.
Hawaiian, although having few देशी अध्यक्षों, is an आधिकारिक भाषा साथ with English at the state level in Hawaii.
The state government of Louisiana offers सेवाएं और दस्तावेज़ in फ्रेंच, as does New Mexico in Spanish.
Besides English, Spanish, French, German, navajo और अन्य देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं, सब अन्य भाषाएं हैं प्रायः सीखे इससे अप्रवासी पूर्वजो कि आए बाद the time of independence or learned through some form of education.
1990 's Pontiac Grand am सेडान फेंडर और क्वार्टर फलक
On an automobile, a क्वार्टर फलक ( or पश्च wing as it is ज्ञात in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) is प्रायः माना the देह फलक जिससे goes between the पश्च द्वार और the ट्रंक और typically wraps around the व्हील खूब ; however, the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ), between the door and the hood, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel.
The क्वार्टर फलक is typically बना of चादर मेटल, लकिन is sometimes बना of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced plastic ; although, this varies with different makes and models.
A quarter panel is typically a welded on component of the uni-body ढांचा or monocoque.
बदलना of a चादर मेटल क्वार्टर फलक typically requires it to be काटें बंद the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle.
Due to this ऊँची राशि of specialized मजदूर, a क्वार्टर फलक may प्रायः be repaired बल्कि than replaced by hammering आउट the क्षति, और a देह फिलर sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface.
shropshire ( or ; alternatively salop ; abbreviated, in छपाई तभी, shrops ) is a काउंटी in the West Midlands region of England.
It borders Wales to the west, चेशायर to the उत्तर, staffordshire to the ईस्ट, वॉस्टरशायर to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south.
A unitary प्राधिकार ( shropshire परिषद ) थी निर्मित on 1 अप्रैल 2009, लेने over इससे the पिछला काउंटी परिषद और 5 ज़िला councils, and covers most of the county.
The borough of Telford और wrekin रै महरूम a पृथक एकात्मक प्राधिकार चूंकि 1998 लकिन continues to be included in the ceremonial county.
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county कस्बा of shrewsbury, जिससे is culturally और historically महत्वपूर्ण और is स्तिथ in the केन्द्र of the काउंटी ; telford, a नई कस्बा in the ईस्ट जिससे थी constructed around a क्रमांक of पुरानी कस्बों, सबसे notably वेलिंगटन, dawley और madeley, which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford, and Ludlow in the south.
The county has many further मार्केट कस्बों, सहित whitchurch in the उत्तर, न्यूपोर्ट बस to the north-east of telford, and Market Drayton in the north-east of the county.
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a युनेस्को संसार विरासत साईट, covering Ironbridge, Coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley.
There are, additionally, अन्य notable ऐतिहासिक औद्योगिक साइट स्तिथ around the काउंटी, ऐसे as at shrewsbury, broseley, snailbeach and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal.
The Shropshire Hills क्षेत्रफल of बकाया प्राकृतिक सौंदर्य कवर परिचय a क्वार्टर of the काउंटी, मुख्यतः in the south.
shropshire is एक of इंग्लैण्ड 's सबसे ग्रामीण और sparsely आबादी काउंटी, साथ the population density of the Shropshire Council area being just 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
The Wrekin is one of the most famous प्राकृतिक लैंडमार्क in the काउंटी, हालांकि the उच्चतम पहाड़ियाँ हैं the Clee Hills, Stiperstones and the Long Mynd.
Wenlock किनारे is another significant भौगोलिक और geological landmark.
In the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping the किनारा साथ वेल्स ) is the fenn 's, whixall और bettisfield mosses नेशनल प्रकृति आरक्षित, एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और बेहतरीन preserved bogs in Britain.
The River Severn, ग्रेट ब्रिटेन 's longest नदी, रनों through the काउंटी, exiting into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley.
shropshire is landlocked, और साथ an क्षेत्रफल of, is इंग्लैण्ड 's largest inland county.
The काउंटी पुष्प is the round-leaved sundew.
For Eurostat उद्देश्य, the काउंटी ( कम the एकात्मक ज़िला of telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering सब of the ceremonial काउंटी ), साथ साथ the अधिकारियों covering the ceremonial काउंटी of staffordshire, comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic कॉन 2009, इससे बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर, साइमन helberg, kaley cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त, निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates शेल्डन कूपर और लियोनार्ड hofstadter, दो caltech physicists ; पैनी, a वेट्रेस और aspiring अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at अलग टाइम्स, a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी, और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( ऋतु 3 अतिथि ; ऋतु 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), जो joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also सुविधाएँ numerous supporting वर्ण, प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent भूमिका in a small group of episodes.
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television series, running from 1983 to 1987, about a fictional group of ex– संयुक्त राज्य फौज खास शक्तियां कर्मियों जो कार्य as सैनिको of सौभाग्य, जबकि on the चलाएं इससे the फौज बाद होने ब्रांडेड as युद्ध अपराधियों लिये a `` अपराधों वे did n't commit ``.
A feature फिल्मी आधारित on the श्रेणी थी released by 20th सदी फॉक्स on June 11, 2010.
A comic book श्रेणी, a-team : shotgun विवाह, began कूच 9, 2010.
Diana Prince is a fictional character appearing regularly in कहानियां प्रकाशित by dc कॉमिक्स.
वो debuted in सनसनी कॉमिक्स # 1 ( जनवरी 1942 ) और serves as the civilian and secret identity of the superhero Wonder Woman.
The character was created by चार्ल्स moulton और हैरी G. पीटर.
Wat Phra kaew, बैंकॉक, थाईलैंड
There is no official state religion in the Thai संविधान, जिससे guarantees धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता लिये सब थाई नागरिकों, हालांकि the king is required by law to be Buddhist.
According to the पिछला जनसांख्यिकी ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais are Buddhists of the Theravada tradition.
Muslims are the दूसरी largest धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani, yala, narathiwat और भाग of songkhla chumphon have प्रबल मुस्लिम populations, consisting of दोनो जातीय थाई and Malay.
The southern tip of थाईलैंड is ज़्यादातर जातीय malays.
Christians, मुख्यतः catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
A छोटी लकिन influential जातियाँ of सिखों in थाईलैंड और कुछ हिन्दुओं भी सजीव in the country 's cities, and are heavily engaged in retail commerce.
There is also a small Jewish जातियाँ in थाईलैंड, डेटिंग वापस to the 17th सदी.
Since 2001, Muslim activists, generally described by the Thai government as आतंकवादी or separatists, have rallied विरूद्ध the सेंट्रल सरकारी क्युकी of कथित भ्रष्टाचार और जातीय पूर्वाग्रह on the part of officials.
थाईलैंड 's विभाग of धर्म, फिलहाल अंतर्गत the मंत्रालय of संस्कृति, is formally जिम्मेदार लिये the पंजीकरण of धार्मिक समूह in Thailand URL_http which hold properties through legally established foundations.
It has oversight, साथ साथ the आव्रजन पुलिस, over the कार्य permits of प्रचारकों जो हैं `` प्रवासी religious workers '' of all religions.
A value added कर ( vat ) is a रूप of खपत tax.
From the perspective of the खरीदार, it is a कर on the खरीदें price.
From that of the seller, it is a tax तभी on the मान added to a उत्पाद, सामग्री, or सेवा, इससे an हिसाब पाइंट of दृश्य, by this stage of its manufacture or distribution.
The manufacturer remits to the government the difference between these two amounts, और retains the बाकी लिये themselves to ऑफसेट the कर वे था previously paid on the inputs.
The value added to a उत्पाद by or साथ a कारोबार is the बिक्री दाम चार्ज to इसके ग्राहक, minus the cost of materials and other taxable inputs.
A VAT is like a sales tax in that ultimately तभी the समाप्त उपभोक्ता is taxed.
It differs इससे the बिक्री कर in कि, साथ the latter, the कर is एकत्रित और remitted to the government only once, at the point of purchase by the end consumer.
With the VAT, संग्रहण, remittances to the सरकारी, और क्रेडिट लिये कर already सशुल्क occur प्रत्येक time a business in the supply chain purchases products.
A रेफरी कॉलिंग a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the नाम of दो infractions in the खेल of बर्फ हॉकी कि may occur जब a खिलाड़ी intentionally or inadvertently plays साथ उसके or her stick above the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal.
This can परिणाम in a stoppage of play or in a penalty.
In the rules of the नेशनल हॉकी लीग, high-sticking is पारिभाषित as a दंड in नियम 60 और as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80.
A stoppage in play results if a high stick comes in contact साथ the पक और the टोली जो छुआ it regains कंट्रोल of the puck.
However, play usually continues if a player touches the puck साथ a ऊँची स्टिक और the opposing टोली gains कंट्रोल of the पक.
If the puck goes into the opposing net बाद coming into सम्पर्क साथ a ऊँची स्टिक, the goal is disallowed.
The level at which a स्टिक is माना too ऊँची लिये a लक्ष्य is the crossbar of the net.
However, if a खिलाड़ी knocks the पक into उसके अपना जाल साथ a ऊँची स्टिक, the goal is allowed.
a दंड is assessed if a खिलाड़ी हमलों another खिलाड़ी with a high stick.
The player is दिए a नाबालिग दंड जबतक उसके ऊँची स्टिक caused an चोट, in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor, major or match penalty.
It is the referee 's discretion जिससे दंड to assess : the नियम काल्स लिये a दोगुना नाबालिग लिये an आकस्मिक चोट, or a मैच दंड लिये a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ).
चोट is प्रायः decided by the ऊँची स्टिक causing bleeding, लकिन the उपस्थिति of blood does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to award an extra penalty without the presence of blood if the रेफरी determines कि the चोट sustained थी sufficient to वारंट a double-minor penalty.
Typical modern मेमोरी कार्ड रीडर, संगत साथ अनेक आम formats
A memory कार्ड रीडर is a यंत्र, typically having a usb इंटरफ़ेस, लिये accessing the आंकड़ा on a मेमोरी कार्ड such as a CompactFlash ( CF ), Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ).
Most card readers also offer write काबिलियत, और साथ साथ the कार्ड, इस can फलन as a कलम ड्राइव.
कुछ मुद्रक और निजी कंप्यूटर have a built-in card reader.
A multi card रीडर is प्रयुक्त लिये संचार साथ अधिक than एक प्रकार of flash memory card.
Multi card readers do not have built-in memory क्षमता, लकिन हैं समर्थ to accept अनेक प्रकार और शैलियाँ of मेमोरी ताश.
The क्रमांक of संगत मेमोरी ताश varies इससे रीडर to रीडर and can include more than 20 different types.
The number of अलग मेमोरी ताश कि a मल्टी कार्ड रीडर can accept is expressed as x-in-1, साथ x होने a फिगर of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted, such as 35-in-1.
There are three categories of कार्ड पाठक sorted by the प्रकार और मात्रा of the कार्ड स्लॉट : सिंगल कार्ड रीडर ( e.g. 1x sd-only ), multi card reader ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g. 4x SD only ).
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB कृत्यों do नहीं need the कार्ड रीडर, ऐसे as the बुद्धिमान स्टिक मेमोरी कार्ड, जिससे can प्लग सीधे into a USB slot.
The USB device क्लास प्रयुक्त is 0x08.
Bullying is हानिकारक to विद्यार्थी ' well-being और विकास.
Bullying is the use of फ़ोर्स or coercion to गाली or intimidate others.
The behavior can be habitual और involve an असंतुलन of सोशल or physical power.
It can शामिल मौखिक उत्पीड़न or threat, शारीरिक उत्पीड़न or coercion और may be निर्देशित repeatedly towards particular पीड़ितों, शायद on grounds of race, religion, gender, sexuality, or ability.
If bullying is done by a समूह, it is पुकारा mobbing.
The victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
Bullying can be पारिभाषित in अनेक different ways.
The UK फिलहाल रै no विधिक परिभाषा of धमकाना, जबकि some U.S. states have laws against it.
धमकाना consists of तीन मौलिक प्रकार of abuse – emotional, verbal, and physical.
It typically involves हल्का विधि of coercion ऐसे as intimidation.
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one धमकाना to अधिक जटिल धमकाना in जिससे the बुली may have एक or अधिक `` lieutenants '' जो may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities.
Bullying in स्कूल और the कार्यस्थल is भी referred to as peer abuse.
Robert W. फुलर रै analyzed धमकाना in the context of rankism.
A bullying culture can develop in कोई कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे इंसान beings interact with each other.
This शामिल स्कूल, गिरिजाघर, परिवार, the workplace, home, and neighborhoods.
Happy slapping in the instituto क्षेत्रीय federico Errázuriz, Santa Cruz, Chile
Laura बुश और rae leigh bradbury ( formerly लापता ) on अप्रैल 4, 2007, in ऑस्टिन, टेक्सास, बाद the 8-year-old introduced mrs. बुश दौरान घोषणा of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
Rae Leigh was the first child in the U.S. to be बरामद as a परिणाम of an एम्बर चेतावनी जब वो थी 8 सप्ताह old in November 1998.
An AMBER Alert or a Child Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : cae ) is a चाइल्ड abduction चेतावनी प्रणाली originating in 1996, now employed in 9 countries.
AMBER is officially a backronym for America 's Missing : प्रसारण आपात जवाब, नामित लिये एम्बर hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted और murdered in आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास in 1996.
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia, `` Levi 's Call '' ( नामित बाद लेवी frady ) ; in हवाई, `` maile एम्बर चेतावनी '' ( बाद maile गिल्बर्ट ) ; और अरकंसास, `` मॉर्गन उपनाम एम्बर चेतावनी '' ( in मेमोरी of मॉर्गन Chauntel Nick ).
AMBER Alerts are distributed via वाणिज्यिक रेडियो स्टेशन, अंतरजाल रेडियो, उपग्रह रेडियो, टेलीविज़न स्टेशन, और केबल tv by the आपात चेतावनी प्रणाली और NOAA Weather Radio ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ).
The alerts are also issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition लक्षण, the led billboards जिससे हैं स्तिथ बाहर of नए walgreens स्थितियाँ, साथ साथ the led/lcd लक्षण of बिलबोर्ड companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor, CBS Outdoor and Lamar, or through wireless device SMS text messages.
AMBER Alert has also teamed up साथ google और फेसबुक to रिले सूचना regarding an एम्बर चेतावनी to an ever growing demographic.
Those interested in subscribing to प्राप्त एम्बर चेतावनियाँ in उनके क्षेत्रफल via sms संदेश can विज़िट बेतार एम्बर चेतावनियाँ, जिससे हैं offered by विधि as free messages.
In some राज्य, the प्रदर्शक scrollboards in सामने of लॉटरी terminals are also used.
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each पुलिस संगठन ( in अनेक मामले, the राज्य पुलिस or राजमार्ग पैट्रोल ) जिससे investigates प्रत्येक of the abductions.
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name and description of the abductee, a वर्णन of the suspected abductor, और a वर्णन और अनुज्ञा थाली क्रमांक of the abductor 's vehicle, if available.
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री साथ जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having था an `` improper संबंध '' जबकि वो worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair और इसके परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
House of Night is a series of पिशाच -थीमd काल्पनिक novels by अमरीकी लेखक P. C. डाल और उसके daughter Kristin Cast.
It follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird, a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो रै बस become a `` fledgling vampyre '' और is जरूरी to attend the हाउस of रात्रि बोर्डिंग स्कूल in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
the श्रेणी रै महरूम on the नई यॉर्क टाइम्स बेहतरीन विक्रेता सूची लिये 63 सप्ताह और वहीँ are over seven million copies in print in North America alone.
The sixth novel, Tempted, जिससे गई on बिक्री on अक्तूबर 27, 2009 साथ a पहला मुद्रण of a लाख नक़ल, entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1.
In January, 2010, Gezeichnet, a जर्मनी अनुवाद of चिह्नित, पहुँचे the # 1 स्पॉट on the der spiegel bestseller list.
The series has so far sold more than ten लाख किताबे in 39 देशों.
Burned was released on अप्रैल 27, 2010, और जैसे इम्तिहान, it डाला the यूएसए आज बेस्टसेलर list that week at # 1.
Awakened, released in जनवरी, 2011, भी डाला the list at # 1.
The श्रेणी, जिससे is प्रकाशित by st मार्टिन 's दबायें is नियोजित to include twelve books.
In 2008, योजनाएँ लिये a फिल्मी अनुकूलन were also announced.
The tenth किताब in the श्रेणी, छुपा, थी released on October 16, 2012.
The second book in the novellas ( which give पृष्ठभूमि on supporting वर्ण ), lenobia 's प्रण, थी released जनवरी 31, 2012.
Book ग्यारह is फिलहाल पुकारा नाज़िल, और the casts have घोषित कि दो अधिक novellas, neferet’s अभिशाप, नियोजित to be released February 19, 2013, and a prequel novel about Kalona, are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books.
In Greek mythology, the Trojan War was waged against the नगर of ट्रॉय by the achaeans ( यूनानियों ) बाद पेरिस of ट्रॉय took हेलेन इससे उसके husband Menelaus king of Sparta.
The war is एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम in यूनानी mythology और रै महरूम narrated through अनेक works of यूनानी साहित्य, सबसे notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey.
The Iliad relates a part of the पिछला साल of the घेरा of ट्रॉय ; the ओडिसी describes Odysseus 's journey home.
Other parts of the war are contained in a साईकिल of एपिक कविताएं, जिससे have बच through fragments.
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek tragedy and other works of Greek साहित्य, और लिये रोमन कवियों सहित वर्जिल और ओविड.
The war originated from a quarrel between the देवियाँ एथेना, hera, और aphrodite, बाद eris, the देवी of संघर्ष और अनबन, दिया उन्हें a सुनहरी ठहराना, sometimes known as the Apple of Discord, marked `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the देवियाँ to पेरिस, जो judged कि aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', should receive the apple.
In exchange, aphrodite बना हेलेन, the सबसे खूबसूरत of सब महिलाओं and wife of Menelaus, fall in love with Paris, who took her to Troy.
Agamemnon, king of Mycenae and the brother of हेलेन 's husband menelaus, led an expedition of achaean सैनिकों to ट्रॉय और besieged the city for ten years because of Paris ' insult.
After the deaths of many heroes, including the Achaeans Achilles and अजाक्स, और the ट्रोजन्स हेक्टर और पेरिस, the नगर गिरी to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
The achaeans slaughtered the ट्रोजन्स ( मगर लिये कुछ of the महिलाओं और children जिसको वे रखा or बेची as slaves ) and desecrated the temples, thus earning the gods ' wrath.
Few of the Achaeans लौटे सकुशल to उनके घरों और अनेक संस्थापित colonies in distant shores.
The Romans later traced their origin to aeneas, एक of the ट्रोजन्स, जो थी कहा to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy.
The प्राचीन यूनानियों विचार कि the trojan युद्ध थी a ऐतिहासिक इवेंट कि था लिया प्लेस in the 13th or 12th century BC, and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles.
By modern times, दोनो the युद्ध और the नगर यहूद widely believed to be non-historical.
In 1868, however, the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert, who convinced Schliemann that ट्रॉय थी at hissarlik और schliemann took over calvert 's excavations on प्रॉपर्टी belonging to calvert ; इस अर्जी is अभी स्वीकृत by सबसे विद्वानों.
Whether there is any historical वास्तविकता पीछे the trojan युद्ध is an खोलें question.
Many scholars believe that वहीँ is a ऐतिहासिक कोर to the टेल, हालांकि इस may बस औसत कि the homeric कहानियां हैं a संलयन of various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age.
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical विरोध प्रायः तिथि it to the 12th or 11th सदियां bc, प्रायः preferring the तिथियाँ दिए by इरैटोस्थनिज़, 1194–1184 bc, जिससे roughly corresponds साथ पुरातत्व प्रमाण of a अनर्थकारी burning of ट्रॉय VIIa.
Anarchists have employed certain symbols for their cause, including most prominently the circle-a और the ब्लैक ध्वज, हालांकि anarchists have historically largely अस्वीकृत the महत्व of प्रतीकों to राजनैतिक movement.
Since the revival of अराजकतावाद around the प्रारंभ of the 21st-century संयुक्त साथ the वृद्धि of the anti-globalization गति, अराजकतावादी cultural symbols are widely present.
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the कपाल कि transmits the वृहद palatine धमनी, रग, और तंत्रिका between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity.
सतह तापमान of अंटार्कटिक in शीत और गर्मियाँ इससे the यूरोपीय केन्द्र लिये Medium-Range Weather Forecasts
The climate of अंटार्कटिक is the coldest on the पूरे of Earth.
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring तापमान कभी अंकित on the मैदान on धरती : −89.2 °c ( −128.6 °f ) at Vostok Station.
It is also extremely dry ( technically a मरुस्थल ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of वर्षण per year.
Even so, on most parts of the महाद्वीप the हिम rarely melts और is आखिरकार संपीडित to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet.
Weather fronts rarely घुस दूर into the महाद्वीप.
Most of Antarctica रै an बर्फ कैप जलवायु ( köppen ef ) साथ बहुत ठंडा, generally अत्यधिक शुष्क मौसम throughout the year and no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ).
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET ) साथ a छोटी गर्मियाँ averaging ऊपर जमने, और much उच्चतर वर्षण.
Current सिर कोच माइक tomlin, दौरान the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स मताधिकार रै था 16 सिर कोच throughout its history.
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in, the name was changed to the स्टीलर्स prior to the ऋतु to celebrate the नगर 's विरासत of producing steel.
Joe बच परोसा दो पृथक शर्तें as सिर कोच और वॉल्ट kiesling served three separate terms.
During the and seasons, due to the amount of खिलाड़ी जो लड़ा in संसार युद्ध ii, the स्टीलर्स संयुक्त उनके टोली साथ फिलाडेल्फिया and Chicago, respectively.
During these seasons, Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared कोचिंग कर्तव्य साथ चिकनी neale और फिल हैंडलर, जो have नहीं महरूम शामिल भीतर इस list.
Struggling for much of the franchise 's early years, the टोली 's पहला ऋतु साथ अधिक विन्स than नुकसान was coached by Jock Sutherland in.
In, under sutherland, the स्टीलर्स निभाई उनके पहला playoff खेल विरूद्ध the Philadelphia Eagles.
Ten of the 16 head कोच खर्च उनके संपूर्ण पेशेवर कोचिंग करियर साथ the मताधिकार, सहित जॉन mcnally, वॉल्ट kiesling and Chuck Noll, who have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
One of तभी चार मेन to कोच the वही टोली लिये 23 years, Chuck Noll retired in.
Noll is also the only coach in National Football लीग इतिहास to जीत चार सुपर प्याले.
विधेयक cowher, noll 's बदलना, coached the Steelers to their fifth Super Bowl victory, in 2005.
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super Bowl xliii, जबकि सिर coached by माइक tomlin, the टोली 's वर्तमान सिर कोच.
In criminal law, fraud is intentional deception बना लिये निजी लाभ or to क्षति another व्यक्तिगत ; the related adjective is fraudulent, and verb is defraud.
Fraud is a crime and a civil law violation, हालांकि the विशिष्ट दण्ड विधि परिभाषा varies by विधिक क्षेत्राधिकार.
Defrauding people or entities of धन or valuables is a आम purpose of धोखाधड़ी.
A hoax भी involves deception, लकिन बगैर the इरादे of लाभ or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a defense in a civil action लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन of a अनुबंध.
Fraud is a आधार लिये निष्पक्ष क्षेत्राधिकार.
Passover, or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew, Yiddish ), Tiberian :, Modern Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ pesah, pesakh, यहूदी : peysekh, paysakh, paysokh ) is an महत्वपूर्ण biblically -derived Jewish festival.
Historically, together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and Sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ), passover is एक of the तीन यात्राएं त्यौहार ( shalosh regalim ) दौरान जिससे the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem.
samaritans स्टिल मेक इस यात्राएं to माउंट gerizim, but only men participate in public worship.
Passover commences on the 15th of the यहूदी माह of nisan और lasts लिये either सात दिनों ( in Israel ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ).
In Judaism, a day commences at dusk and lasts until the following dusk, यूँ the पहला दिन of passover तभी begins बाद संध्या of the 14th of nisan और ends at संध्या of the 15th दिन of the माह of Nisan.
The rituals unique to the passover जश्न commence साथ the passover seder जब the 15th of Nisan has begun.
In the Northern Hemisphere Passover takes प्लेस in वसन्त as the तोरा prescribes it : `` in the माह of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is one of the सबसे widely observed यहूदी holidays.
The यहूदी लोगों celebrate passover as a commemoration of उनके मुक्ति over 3,300 सालो पहले by परमेश्वर इससे गुलामी in प्राचीन मिश्र कि थी ruled by the Pharaohs, and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses.
It commemorates the स्टोरी of the exodus as वर्णित in the यहूदी बाइबल विशेषकर in the किताब of Exodus, in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt.
In the कथा of the exodus, the बाइबल tells कि परमेश्वर helped the children of इसराईल एस्केप इससे उनके गुलामी in मिश्र by inflicting टेन plagues upon the प्राचीन उन्होंने पहले the pharaoh होता रिलीज his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born.
The israelites यहूद instructed to चिह्नित the doorposts of उनके घरों साथ the रक्त of a slaughtered वसन्त मेमने और, upon देखकर इस, the स्पिरिट of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in these homes, hence the name of the holiday.
वहीँ is कुछ बहस over जहाँ the पद is actually derived from.
When the Pharaoh freed the Israelites, it is said कि वे बाएँ in ऐसे a hurry कि वे could नहीं इंतजार लिये ब्रैड आटा to वृद्धि ( leaven ).
In commemoration, लिये the अवधि of passover no leavened ब्रैड is खाया, for which reason it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread ''.
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened bread ) is खाया दौरान passover और it is a प्रतीक of the holiday.
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period धूमकेतुओं और is दृश्य इससे धरती every 75–76 years.
हैली is the तभी short-period धूमकेतु कि is clearly दृश्य to the नग्न नजर इससे धरती, and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be उज्जवल और अधिक spectacular, लकिन होगा appear तभी एकबार in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner सौर प्रणाली have महरूम observed और अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese, babylonian, और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers, लकिन यहूद नहीं recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity थी पहला संकल्पित in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond हैली, after whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली in 1986 और होगा next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first धूमकेतु to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational आंकड़ा on the ढांचा of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple 's `` गंदा स्नोबॉल '' मॉडल, जिससे correctly पूर्वानुमानित कि हैली होता be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – ऐसे as जल, कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और अमोनिया – और धूल.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these विचार ; लिये उदाहरण it is अभी समझा कि हैली 's सतह is largely रचित of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, और कि तभी a छोटी portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is विपक्ष to साम्यवादी.
Organized anti-communism विकसित in प्रतिक्रिया to the वृद्धि of साम्यवादी, विशेषकर बाद the 1917 अक्तूबर क्रान्ति in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War.
Most anti-communists reject the अवधारणा of ऐतिहासिक भौतिकवाद, जिससे is a सेंट्रल विचार in मार्क्सवाद.
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief कि पूंजीवाद होगा be followed by समाजवादी और साम्यवादी, just as feudalism was followed by capitalism.
Anti-communists question the validity of the मार्क्सवादी अर्जी कि the समाजवादी राज्य होगा `` wither दूर '' जब it becomes अनावश्यक in a सच्चा communist society.
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the जल्दी सालो of bolshevik नियम, जबकि नहीं as चरम as कि दौरान जोसेफ स्टालिन 's नियम, थी स्टिल कठोर by उचित मानकों, citing उदाहरण ऐसे as फेलिक्स dzerzhinsky 's रहस्य पुलिस, जिससे eliminated numerous राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वियों by extrajudicial executions, and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion.
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism और फासीवाद as सर्वसत्तावाद, देखकर समानता between the क्रियाएँ of कम्युनिस्ट and fascist governments.
Historian Robert Conquest रै argued कि साम्यवादी थी जिम्मेदार लिये tens of लाखो of मौतों दौरान the 20th century.
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to power have tended to be rigidly असहिष्णु of राजनैतिक विपक्ष.
These प्रतिद्वंद्वियों अर्जी कि सबसे कम्युनिस्ट देशों have दिखाया no लक्षण of advancing from Marx 's socialist stage of economy to an ideal communist stage.
Rather, Communist governments have been accused of बनाना a नई सत्ताधारी क्लास ( a nomenklatura ), साथ शक्तियां और privileges वृहद than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the non- communist regimes.
Gil बगुला ( 9 अप्रैल 1922 – 27 नवम्बर 2008 ) थी a jamaican professional footballer.
He was the first black player to play लिये स्कॉटिश क्लबों सेल्टिक, और थी the पिता of कवि और संगीतकार gil scott-heron.
he died in डेट्रॉयट of a heart attack on 27 November 2008.
The soybean ( us ) or soya सेम ( uk ) ( glycine अधिकतम ) is a प्रजाति of legume देशी to ईस्ट एशिया, widely grown लिये its edible bean which has numerous uses.
The plant is classed as an oilseed बल्कि than a पल्स by the un खाना और agricultural संगठन ( fao ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) सोयाबीन भोजन is a significant और सस्ती सोर्स of प्रोटीन लिये एनिमल फ़ीड्स और अनेक prepackaged meals ; सोया सब्ज़ी oil is another product of processing the soybean crop.
For example, soybean products such as textured vegetable प्रोटीन ( tvp ) हैं संघटक in अनेक मांस और dairy analogues.
Soybeans उपज significantly अधिक प्रोटीन प्रति acre than most other uses of land.
Traditional nonfermented खाना उपयोग of soybeans शामिल सोया मिल्क, और इससे the latter tofu and tofu skin.
Fermented foods include soy sauce, fermented सेम paste, natto, और tempeh, among अन्य.
The oil is प्रयुक्त in अनेक औद्योगिक अनुप्रयोग.
The main निर्माता of सोया हैं the संयुक्त राज्य ( 35 % ), ब्राज़ील ( 27 % ), Argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ).
The beans contain significant amounts of phytic एसिड, alpha-linolenic एसिड, and isoflavones.
Harrison Ford ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an अमरीकी फिल्मी कर्ता और निर्माता.
He is famous for his performances as हान सोलो in the असली स्टार युद्धों त्रयी और the शीर्षक अक्षर of the इंडियाना Jones film series.
Ford is also known for his roles as Rick Deckard in Blade धावक, जॉन किताब in गवाह और जोकर रयान in patriot खेल और साफ और उपस्थित खतरे.
His career has spanned छह दशकों और शामिल भूमिकाएँ in अनेक हॉलीवुड blockbusters, सहित presumed Innocent, The Fugitive, Air Force One, and What Lies Beneath.
At one point, चार of the शीर्ष छह box-office हिट्स of सब समय included one of his roles.
Five of his films have महरूम inducted into the नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री.
In 1997, घाट थी क्रमित no. 1 in साम्राज्य `` the शीर्ष 100 फिल्म Stars of All Time '' list.
, the United States domestic बक्सा दफ्तर grosses of घाट 's films कुल over us $ 3.5 अरब, साथ विश्वव्यापी grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
Ford is the husband of अभिनेत्री calista Flockhart.
A ट्यूब of chapstick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured by फाइजर उपभोक्ता healthcare और प्रयुक्त in अनेक देशों worldwide.
It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped होठ ; hence the नाम.
Many varieties भी शामिल सनस्क्रीन in order to prevent sunburn.
Due to its popularity, the पद रै become a genericized ट्रेडमार्क.
It popularly refers to any लिप बाम contained in a lipstick-style ट्यूब और लागू in the वही manner as लिपस्टिक.
However, the term is still a registered trademark, साथ अधिकारों exclusively स्वामित्व by फाइजर.
In स्वीडन और in the संयुक्त किंगडम, the उत्पाद 's प्रमुख प्रतिस्पर्धी is lypsyl, बना by novartis उपभोक्ता Health, which is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), also known as Bishop बर्कली ( बिशप of cloyne ), थी an anglo-irish पारस जिनकी प्राथमिक उपलब्धि थी the उन्नति of a सिद्धान्त he पुकारा `` immaterialism '' ( बाद referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ).
This theory झुठलाए the अस्तित्व of सामग्री पदार्थ और बजाय contends कि परिचित वस्तुएँ जैसे टेबल और chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers, and as a result can not exist without being perceived.
Thus, as Berkeley famously put it, लिये शारीरिक वस्तुएँ `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be आभास `` ).
Berkeley is also known for his critique of abstraction, an महत्वपूर्ण आधार in उसके तर्क लिये immaterialism.
In 1709, Berkeley published his first major कार्य,, in जिससे he discussed the सीमाएं of इंसान दृष्टि और उन्नत the सिद्धान्त कि the उचित objects of sight are not material objects, but light and colour.
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the सिद्धान्त of इंसान ज्ञान in 1710 जिससे, बाद इसके ग़रीब रिसेप्शन, he rewrote in संवाद रूप और प्रकाशित अंतर्गत the शीर्षक तीन संवाद between hylas and Philonous in 1713.
In this book, Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( यूनानी : 'प्रेमr of दिमाग ' ), जबकि hylas ( यूनानी : 'मैटr ' ) embodies the आयरिश thinker’s प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, in particular जॉन locke.
Berkeley argued against Sir इसहाक़ न्यूटन 's doctrine of निरपेक्ष स्पेस, समय और गति in de मोटू ( on गति ), published 1721.
उसके वितर्क यहूद a precursor to the views of Mach and Einstein.
In 1732, he published Alciphron, a Christian क्षमाप्रार्थी विरूद्ध the free-thinkers, और in 1734, he प्रकाशित the विश्लेषक, an empiricist critique of the मूलाधार of infinitesimal calculus, which was influential in the development of mathematics.
His last major philosophical work, Siris ( 1744 ), begins by वकालत the औषधीय उपयोग of तारकोल जल, और तब continues to discuss a चौड़ी दायरा of विषय सहित विज्ञान, दर्शनशास्त्र, और theology.
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II, because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to दर्शनशास्त्र in the 20th सदी ऐसे as the समस्याएं of बोध, the अंतर between प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक qualities, और the importance of language.
Qingdao ( ), historically ज्ञात as tsingtao, is a प्रमुख नगर in पूर्वी शानदोंग प्रांत, पूर्वी China, with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ).
Its built up area, made of 6 urban districts and 4 county-level शहरों, is घर to परिचय 4,896,000 निवासियों in 2010.
It borders Yantai to the पूर्वोत्तर, weifang to the वेस्ट और rizhao to the southwest.
qīng ( ) in चाइनीज अर्थात् `` ग्रीन '' or `` रसीले '', while dǎo ( ) means `` island ''.
चिंगदाओ is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the पीला समुद्र, चिंगदाओ is a प्रमुख seaport, नवल आधार, और औद्योगिक centre.
It is भी the साईट of the tsingtao Brewery.
The world 's longest sea bridge, the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge, कड़ी the प्रमुख शहरी क्षेत्रफल of चिंगदाओ साथ huangdao ज़िला, straddling the jiaozhou Bay sea areas.
Qingdao is नामित चीन 's सबसे livable city.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( apmv ), or is a समूह of phylogenetically सम्बन्धित विशाल viruses ( designated usually MimiN ).
In colloquial speech, APMV is more commonly referred to as बस `` mimivirus ''.
Until October 2011, when a larger virus Megavirus chilensis थी वर्णित, it था the largest capsid व्यास of सब ज्ञात viruses.
mimivirus रै a विशाल और जटिल genome compared with most other viruses.
mimivirus, छोटी लिये `` mimicking microbe '', is so पुकारा to प्रतिबिंबित its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties.
The Mexican War of स्वतंत्रता ( 1810–1821 ) थी an हथियारबंद विरोध between the लोगों of मैक्सिको और the स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक अधिकारियों which started on September 16, 1810.
The movement, which became known as the Mexican युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, थी led by mexican-born spaniards, mestizos और amerindians जो sought independence from Spain.
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their औपनिवेशिक मास्टर्स, लकिन ended as an असंभावित गठबंधन between मैक्सिकन ex-royalists और मैक्सिकन छापामार insurgents.
Crohn 's disease, also known as Crohn syndrome and क्षेत्रीय enteritis, is a प्रकार of जलन bowel बीमारी कि may affect कोई भाग of the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट from mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms.
It primarily causes abdominal pain, diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ), vomiting ( can be निरन्तर ), or वज़न घाटा, लकिन may भी कारण जटिलताओं बाहर the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट ऐसे as स्किन rashes, गठिया, सूजन of the eye, tiredness, and lack of concentration.
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between पर्यावरणीय, immunological और बैक्टीरियल कारकों in genetically susceptible individuals.
This results in a दीर्घकालिक जलन विकार, in जिससे the देह 's प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली हमले the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens.
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an autoimmune disease in the पास्ट ; हाल जांचकर्ताओं have वर्णित it as an प्रतिरक्षा कमियां राज्य.
वहीँ is a जेनेटिक संघ साथ crohn 's बीमारी, primarily साथ विसंगतियाँ of the NOD2 gene and its protein, which senses bacterial cell walls.
सहोदर of प्रभावित individuals are at higher risk.
males और महिलाओं हैं equally affected.
Smokers are two times more संभावित to develop crohn 's बीमारी than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's बीमारी affects between 400,000 और 600,000 people in North America.
व्यापकता estimates लिये उत्तरी यूरोपीय have ranged इससे 27–48 per 100,000.
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the किशोर और twenties, साथ another शिखर incidence in the fifties to seventies, हालांकि the बीमारी can occur at कोई age.
There is no ज्ञात फार्मास्युटिकल or सर्जिकल इलाज़ for Crohn 's disease.
Treatment options are प्रतिबंधित to controlling लक्षण, maintaining remission, और preventing पतन.
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn, who, in 1932, साथ साथ दो अन्य सहयोगियों at माउंट sinai हॉस्पिटल in नई यॉर्क, वर्णित a श्रेणी of मरीजों साथ सूजन of the terminal ileum, the area most commonly affected by the illness.
This is an अधूरी सूची of the tallest इमारतें and structures by country.
The list directly includes the tallest buildings and structures for each देश, और जहाँ उचित, it भी अंक to अधिक विस्तृत country-specific lists.
Rough and Ready is a census-designated प्लेस in नेवाडा काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States.
It is located west of Grass घाटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लगभग 62 मील ( 100 km ) इससे sacramento.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 963 at the 2010 census.
YouTube is a video-sharing website, created by three former PayPal कर्मचारी in फ़रवरी 2005, on जिससे उपयोक्ता can अपलोड, view and share videos.
The company is based in San Bruno, California, and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to display a wide variety of user-generated वीडियो सामग्री, सहित फिल्म क्लिप्स, tv क्लिप्स, और म्यूज़िक वीडियो, as खूब as amateur सामग्री ऐसे as वीडियो blogging, छोटी असली videos, and educational videos.
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals, although media corporations सहित सीबीएस, the बीबीसी, vevo, hulu, और अन्य संगठन प्रस्ताव कुछ of उनके सामग्री via the साईट, as भाग of the youtube partnership program.
Unregistered users can watch videos, जबकि पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can अपलोड an असीमित क्रमांक of videos.
वीडियो माना to contain potentially अप्रिय सामग्री are available only to registered users at least 18 years old.
In November 2006, YouTube, LLC was bought by google लिये us $ 1.65 अरब, और operates as a subsidiary of google.
Sister Act is a musical लिखा by cheri steinkellner और विधेयक steinkellner साथ अतिरिक्त किताब सामग्री by Douglas Carter Beane, with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken.
It is based on the hit 1992 फिल्मी कॉमेडी of the same name.
the 2009 वेस्ट समाप्त उत्पादन थी उत्पादित by स्टेज entertainment, whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, and Michael Reno for Sis Acts LLC.
Goldberg is also a निर्माता of the 2011 ब्रॉडवे adaptation.
Microsoft DirectX is a संग्रहण of अनुप्रयोग प्रोग्रामिंग अंतरफलक ( api ) लिये हैंडलिंग कार्य सम्बन्धित to मल्टीमीडिया, विशेषकर game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms.
Originally, the names of these api सब began साथ सीधा, ऐसे as direct3d, directdraw, directmusic, directplay, directsound, and so forth.
the नाम डाइरेक्टएक्स थी coined as आशुलिपि पद लिये सब of ये api ( the x खड़ा in for the particular API names ) and soon became the name of the collection.
When Microsoft later set out to develop a गेमिंग कंसोल, the x थी प्रयुक्त as the आधार of the नाम एक्सबॉक्स to indicate that the console was based on DirectX technology.
The X initial has been carried आगे in the नामकरण of api designed लिये the एक्सबॉक्स ऐसे as xinput और the cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ), while the DirectX pattern has been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite.
Direct3D ( the 3D ग्राफिक्स api भीतर डाइरेक्टएक्स ) is widely प्रयुक्त in the विकास of video games for Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Xbox, Microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games.
Direct3D is also used by other software अनुप्रयोग लिये कल्पना और ग्राफिक्स कार्य ऐसे as cad/cam engineering.
As Direct3D is the सबसे widely publicized घटक of डाइरेक्टएक्स, it is आम to see the names `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably.
The DirectX तन्त्र विकास kit ( sdk ) consists of runtime पुस्तकालयों in redistributable शब्दकोष रूप, साथ with accompanying documentation and headers for use in coding.
originally, the runtimes यहूद तभी संस्थापित by games or explicitly by the user.
Windows 95 किया नहीं लॉन्च साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स, लकिन डाइरेक्टएक्स थी शामिल with Windows 95 OEM Service Release 2.
Windows 98 and Windows nt 4.0 दोनो shipped साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स, as रै प्रत्येक संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ released since.
the sdk is उपलब्धियाँ as a free download.
While the runtimes हैं मालिकाना, closed-source तन्त्र, सोर्स code is provided for most of the SDK samples.
Starting with the release of Windows 8 डेवलपर पूर्वावलोकन, डाइरेक्टएक्स sdk रै महरूम एकीकृत into Windows SDK.
Direct3D 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11 are only available for Windows विस्टा और नए क्युकी प्रत्येक of ये नई संस्करण थी निर्मित to निर्भर upon the नई खिड़कियाँ प्रदर्शक ड्राइवर मॉडल कि थी introduced लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा.
the नई vista/wddm ग्राफिक्स वास्तुकला शामिल a नई वीडियो मेमोरी मैनेजर supporting आभासीकरण of graphics hardware for various applications and services like the Desktop Window Manager.
quetzaltenango, भी commonly ज्ञात by इसके स्वदेशी नाम, xelajú, or अधिक commonly, xela, is the second largest city of Guatemala.
It is दोनो the पूंजी of quetzaltenango विभाग और the नगरपालिका सीट of Quetzaltenango municipality.
It has an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of 224,703.
The population is about 61 % स्वदेशी or amerindian, 34 % मेस्टिज़ो or ladino और 5 % European.
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an उन्नयन of 2,330 मीटर ( 7,655 ft ) ऊपर समुद्र स्तर at इसके न्यूनतम भाग.
It may reach above 2,400 मीटर भीतर the नगर.
the नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
municipalities abutting the नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango शामिल : salcajá, cantel, almolonga, zunil, el palmar, concepción Chiquirichapa, San Mateo, La Esperanza, Olintepeque, and San Andrés Xecul.
All these municipalities are part of the विभाग of quetzaltenango, मगर सैन आन्द्रेस xecul जिससे is a भाग of the विभाग of Totonicapán.
The Epic of gilgamesh, an एपिक कविता इससे मेसोपोटामिया, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian लिये gilgamesh ), किंग of Uruk.
Four of these यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री लिये a संयुक्त epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` Old babylonian '' संस्करण, तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled बाद इसके incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have बच.
the बाद `` मानक babylonian '' संस्करण तिथियाँ इससे the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of लगभग दो तिहाई of इस longer, twelve-tablet संस्करण have been recovered.
Some of the best copies were खोजा in the पुस्तकालयों तबाह of the 7th-century bc assyrian किंग Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a दोस्ती between gilgamesh और enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract उसे इससे oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they journey to the देवदार पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba, इसके monstrous संरक्षक.
Later they kill the Bull of स्वर्ग, जिससे the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these actions, the देवताओं वाक्य enkidu to मौत.
the दूसरी हाफ of the एपिक focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to सीख the रहस्य of अनन्त जीवन, gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous journey.
He learns that `` The जीवन कि तुम हैं seeking तुम होगा never find.
When the gods created man they allotted to him death, लकिन जीवन वे retained in उनके अपना keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the अक्कादी संस्करण of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death, because of his great भवन प्रोजेक्ट, और उसके खाता of कया utnapishtim बताई उसे happened during the flood.
The story has been अनूदित into अनेक अलग भाषाएं, और gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of popular fiction.
There हैं numerous debates over जो निर्मित the पहला video game, with the answer depending largely on how video games are defined.
The evolution of वीडियो खेल represents a उलझे वेब of अनेक अलग उद्योग, including scientific, computer, arcade, and consumer electronics.
The `` video '' in `` video खेल `` traditionally refers to a रास्टर display device.
With the popular catch phrase use of the पद `` वीडियो खेल '', the पद अभी implies सब प्रदर्शक प्रकार, स्वरुप, and platforms.
Historians have भी sought to बायपास the समस्या by बजाय using the अधिक विशिष्ट `` digital games '' descriptive.
This term पत्ते आउट the पहले analog-based कंप्यूटर खेल.
This is a list of best-selling वीडियो खेल franchises कि have बेची or shipped at least 5 million copies.
Unless otherwise stated, संख्याएँ indicate विश्वव्यापी इकाई बेची, ordered alphabetically whenever दो or अधिक सूची the same amount.
The exception are the ones specifying शिपमेंट, जिससे have निम्नतर पूर्वता than अन्य listing sales.
Franchise sales शामिल विस्तार पैक भी हालांकि वे हैं नहीं माना full video games.
For best-selling व्यक्तिगत वीडियो खेल, देखिए सूची of best-selling वीडियो games.
The sales figures दिए नीचे do नहीं शामिल आर्केड खेल बिक्री, जिससे can be मिला at List of highest-grossing arcade video games.
– This color indicates a sub-series of a larger वीडियो खेल मताधिकार.
This does नहीं necessarily लागू लिये श्रेणी कि हैं not video game-based.
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards ( सितंबर 1, 1933 – सितंबर 13, 2006 ) थी an अमरीकी राजनेता and the 45th Governor of Texas.
She first came to national attention as the state treasurer of टेक्सास, जब वो वितरित the keynote पता at the 1988 लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन.
रिचर्ड्स परोसा as the 45th राज्यपाल of टेक्सास इससे 1991 to 1995 और थी defeated for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush.
Ann रिचर्ड्स थी the दूसरी मादा राज्यपाल of Texas.
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a सुरक्षा विशेषता शामिल in आधुनिक ऑपरेटिंग systems.
It is known to be available in Linux, Mac OS x, आईओएस, microsoft खिड़कियाँ और एंड्रॉइड ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों और is intended to prevent an अनुप्रयोग or service from executing code from a non-executable memory region.
This helps prevent certain कारनामे कि स्टोर कोड via a बफ़र अतिप्रवाह, लिये example.
DEP runs in दो मोड्स : hardware-enforced dep लिये cpu कि can चिह्नित मेमोरी पृष्ठों as nonexecutable, और software-enforced DEP with limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support.
Software-enforced DEP does not protect against execution of code in data पृष्ठों, लकिन बजाय counters seh मिटाकर, another प्रकार of आक्रमण.
DEP was introduced on लिनक्स in 2004 ( कर्नेल 2.6.8 ), on खिड़कियाँ in 2004 साथ खिड़कियाँ xp सेवा पैक 2, जबकि ठहराना introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006.
Example illustration of दो आम futanari विसंगतियाँ
, is the जापानी शब्द लिये hermaphroditism, जिससे is भी प्रयुक्त in a broader sense for androgyny.
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic विधा of कंप्यूटर खेल, कॉमिक्स और एनिमेशन, जिससे शामिल वर्ण कि दिखाएँ दोनो प्राथमिक यौन विशेषताएँ.
But in today 's भाषा it refers लगभग exclusively लिये वर्ण जो have an overall feminine appearance.
In that case the पद is भी प्रायः abbreviated as futa ( s ), जिससे is occasionally also used as term for the works itself.
जल्दी captchas ऐसे as ये, उत्पन्न by the ez-gimpy program, were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA, बल्कि than attempting to बनाएँ a distorted पृष्ठभूमि और ऊँची स्तर of warping on the टेक्स्ट, might focus on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line.
another रास्ता to मेक segmentation मुश्किल is to भीड प्रतीकों साथ, as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format.
Some captchas कोशिश to utilize the क्षमता of लोगों to देखिए three-dimensional objects.
On this image, प्रतीकों हैं drawn साथ लाइनों of अलग मोटाई to मेक an प्रभाव of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a प्रकार of challenge-response परीक्षण प्रयुक्त in कम्प्यूटिंग as an attempt to ensure कि the जवाब is generated by a human being.
the प्रक्रम प्रायः involves a कंप्यूटर पूछे a उपयोक्ता to पूरा a सरल test which the computer is able to grade.
These tests हैं designed to be आसान लिये a कंप्यूटर to generate लकिन मुश्किल लिये a कंप्यूटर to solve, but again easy for a human.
If a सही समाधान is प्राप्त, it can be presumed to have been entered by a human.
A common प्रकार of captcha requires the उपयोक्ता to प्रकार अक्षर and/or अंक इससे a distorted image that appears on the screen.
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet बॉट इससे accessing वेबसाइटों, चूंकि a सामान्य इंसान can easily पढ़ा a captcha, जबकि the bot can नहीं प्रक्रम the image letters and therefore, can not answer properly, or at all.
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated, many of them have become difficult even for a human to read, so चित्र captchas यहूद निर्मित in जिससे a इंसान is दिखाया a सरल परीक्षण to दिखाएँ a चित्र of a निश्चित एनिमल ( दिए few एनिमल तस्वीरें ), जिससे is सरल लिये a इंसान होने to प्रक्रम, and therefore easy to pick, while a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the picture, it can not easily guess the animal.
the पद `` captcha '' थी coined in 2000 by लुइस वोन ahn, मैनुएल ब्लम, निकोलस J. Hopper, and John Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ).
It is an acronym based on the word `` capture '' और खड़ा लिये `` completely स्वचालित पब्लिक turing परीक्षण to बताना कंप्यूटर और इंसानो Apart ''.
Carnegie Mellon विश्वविद्यालयों attempted to ट्रेडमार्क the पद on 15 अक्तूबर 2004, लकिन the ट्रेडमार्क application was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a रिवर्स turing परीक्षण, क्युकी it is administered by a यंत्र और targeted at a इंसान, in कंट्रास्ट to the मानक turing परीक्षण that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly ज्ञात in अंग्रेज़ी as ज़ाक cousteau ; 11 जून 1910 – 25 जून 1997 ) थी a फ्रेंच नवल अधिकारी, एक्सप्लोरर, conservationist, फिल्मकार, innovator, scientist, photographer, author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water.
He co-developed the aqua-lung, pioneered समुद्री संरक्षण और थी a सदस्य of the Académie française.
KFC ( केंटकी fried मुर्गा ) is a तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां कड़ी headquartered in louisville, Kentucky, United States, which specializes in fried chicken.
An `` American icon '', it is the world 's दूसरी largest रेस्तरां कड़ी overall ( as measured by बिक्री ) बाद मैकडोनाल्ड 's, साथ over 18,000 outlets in 120 countries and territories.
The कम्पनी is a subsidiary of यम !
Brands, a रेस्तरां कम्पनी जिससे भी owns पिज़्ज़ा हट और टैको घंटी.
KFC was founded by Harland सैंडर्स, जो began selling fried मुर्गा इससे उसके roadside रेस्तरां in कोर्बिन, केंटकी during the Great Depression.
सैंडर्स थी एक of the पहला लोगों to देखिए the संभावित of the रेस्तरां फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग अवधारणा, साथ the first `` Kentucky Fried Chicken '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952.
The franchise popularized मुर्गा in the तेज़ खाना उद्योग, thereby diversifying the मार्केट और challenging the dominance of the hamburger.
विपणन खुद as `` कर्नल सैंडर्स '', he became a legendary figure of American cultural history, and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding.
The company 's रैपिड विस्तार देखी it grow too विशाल लिये सैंडर्स to मैनेज, और in 1964 he बेची the कम्पनी to a समूह of निवेशकों led by जॉन y. Brown, Jr. and Jack Massey.
KFC was one of the first fast food chains to expand internationally, खोलने आउटलेट in इंग्लैण्ड, मैक्सिको और प्यूर्टो Rico by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, KFC experienced mixed fortunes domestically, as it went through a श्रेणी of कॉरपोरेट स्वामी जो था छोटी or no अनुभव in the रेस्तरां कारोबार.
In the early 1970s, KFC थी बेची to the आत्माओं कड़ heublein, जो यहूद लिया over by the r.J. रेनॉल्ड्स खाना and tobacco conglomerate, who sold the chain to PepsiCo.
The chain continued to expand overseas however, और in 1987 केएफसी became the पहला पश्चिमी रेस्तरां chain to open in China.
The chain has चूंकि विस्तारित rapidly in चीन, और the देश is अभी the कम्पनी 's most profitable market.
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants प्रभाग as tricon वैश्विक रेस्तरां, जिससे बाद बदला इसके नाम to Yum !
ब्रांड्स.
KFC primarily sells fried मुर्गा टुकड़े और विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as मुर्गा सैंडविच और wraps, सलाद और पक्ष बर्तन ऐसे as फ्रेंच फ्राइज़ और coleslaw, desserts and soft drinks, often supplied by PepsiCo.
Its most famous product is pressure fried मुर्गा टुकड़े, seasoned साथ सैंडर्स ' `` असली रेसिपी '' of 11 herbs and spices.
The exact nature of these संघटक is अनजान, और represents a notable trade secret.
larger portions of fried मुर्गा हैं परोसा in a distinctive गत्ता `` बाल्टी '', जिससे रै become a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman.
KFC is प्रसिद्ध लिये the स्लोगन `` उंगली lickin ' शुभ '', जिससे रै चूंकि been replaced by `` Nobody does chicken like KFC '' and `` So good ''.
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of पशु मिला exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments.
Their distinguishing विशेषता is cnidocytes, specialized कोशिकाएं that they use mainly for capturing prey.
Their bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like substance, sandwiched between दो परतों of epithelium कि हैं ज़्यादातर एक कोशिका thick.
They have two मौलिक देह फ़ॉर्म : तैराकी medusae और स्थानबद्ध polyps, दोनो of जिससे हैं radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
Both forms have a single orifice और देह गुहा कि हैं प्रयुक्त लिये पाचन and respiration.
अनेक cnidarian प्रजाति उपज colonies कि हैं सिंगल organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
Cnidarians ' activities हैं समन्वित by a विकेन्द्रित तंत्रिका जाल और सरल receptors.
Several free-swimming cubozoa और scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, and some have simple eyes.
Not all cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have complex lifecycles with अलैंगिक polyp चरण और यौन medusae, लकिन कुछ omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
Cnidarians यहूद लिये a long समय grouped साथ ctenophores in the phylum coelenterata, लकिन increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones, corals, sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( जेलीफ़िश ) ; cubozoa ( बक्सा jellies ) ; और hydrozoa, a विविध समूह कि शामिल सब the freshwater cnidarians as खूब as अनेक समुद्री फ़ॉर्म, और रै दोनो स्थानबद्ध सदस्यों ऐसे as hydra और औपनिवेशिक swimmers ऐसे as the पुर्तगाली man o ' युद्ध.
staurozoa have recently महरूम recognised as a क्लास in उनके अपना सही बल्कि than a sub-group of scyphozoa, और वहीँ is बहस परिचय whether myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ).
Most cnidarians prey on जीवों ranging in आकार इससे प्लवक to पशु अनेक टाइम्स larger than themselves, लकिन अनेक obtain much of उनके पोषण इससे endosymbiotic algae, and a few are parasites.
Many are preyed upon by other पशु सहित starfish, समुद्र slugs, मछली और टर्टल्स.
Coral reefs, whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic शैवाल, support कुछ of the संसार 's सबसे उत्पादक ecosystems, and protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
While corals हैं लगभग entirely प्रतिबंधित to गरम, उथले समुद्री waters, अन्य cnidarians live in the depths, in polar seas and in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rocks formed परिचय, और अन्य जीवाश्मों दिखाएँ कि corals may have महरूम उपस्थित shortly पहले और diversified a few लाख सालो बाद.
जीवाश्मों of cnidarians कि do नहीं निर्माण mineralized structures are very rare.
Scientists currently सोचो कि cnidarians, ctenophores और bilaterians हैं अधिक closely सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than ये हैं to अन्य sponges, और कि anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians, and the most closely related to bilaterians.
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians, हालांकि माना अधिक `` आदिम '' than bilaterians, have a wider दायरा of जीनों.
The एज़टेक पिरामिड at st. cecilia acatitlan, Mexico State.
Aztec jade मुखौटा depicting the परमेश्वर xipe totec.
विशाल सिरेमिक प्रतिमा of an Aztec Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic codex fejérváry-mayer - the आग परमेश्वर xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec लोगों यहूद निश्चित जातीय समूह of सेंट्रल मैक्सिको, विशेषकर those समूह जो spoke the नावातल language and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries.
The नावातल शब्द aztecatl ( एकवचन ) और aztecah ( बहुवचन ) औसत `` लोगों इससे aztlan ``, a पौराणिक प्लेस लिये the nahuatl-speaking संस्कृति of the time, and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people.
Often the term `` एज़टेक '' refers exclusively to the mexica लोगों of tenochtitlan ( अभी the स्थान of मैक्सिको नगर ), situated on an द्वीप in Lake Texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica.
Sometimes the term also शामिल the निवासियों of tenochtitlan 's दो प्रिंसिपल अलाइड city-states, the acolhuas of texcoco और the tepanecs of tlacopan, जो साथ with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire ''.
In other contexts, एज़टेक may refer to सब the विभिन्न नगर राज्य और उनके peoples, जो साझा विशाल भाग of their ethnic history and cultural traits with the Mexica, Acolhua and Tepanecs, and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca.
In this meaning it is possible to talk परिचय an एज़टेक सभ्यता सहित सब the particular सांस्कृतिक पैटर्न आम लिये सबसे of the peoples inhabiting सेंट्रल मैक्सिको in the late postclassic period.
From the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization : here the पूंजी of the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन, the नगर of tenochtitlan, थी निर्मित upon उठाया आइलेट in झील texcoco.
the ट्रिपल गठबंधन formed a उपनदी साम्राज्य expanding इसके राजनैतिक आधिपत्य दूर परे the Valley of Mexico, conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica.
at इसके शिखर, एज़टेक संस्कृति था समृद्ध और जटिल पौराणिक और धार्मिक परंपराओं, as well as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, साथ साथ a विशाल क्रमांक of नावातल बोलना स्वदेशी allies, conquered tenochtitlan और पराजित the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन अंतर्गत the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II.
subsequently the स्पेनी संस्थापित the नई उपनिवेश of मैक्सिको नगर on the साईट of the ruined एज़टेक पूंजी, इससे where they proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America.
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through पुरातत्व प्रमाण मिला in excavations ऐसे as कि of the प्रसिद्ध templo महापौर in मैक्सिको नगर ; इससे स्वदेशी छाल पेपर codices ; इससे eyewitness खाते by स्पेनी conquistadors ऐसे as hernán cortés और बर्नल díaz डेल कैस्टिलो ; और विशेषकर इससे 16th और 17th सदी descriptions of एज़टेक संस्कृति and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language, such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants.
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3, 1967 ) is an अमरीकी पत्रकार, लेखक, और टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व.
He is the प्राथमिक लंगर of the सीएनएन न्यूज दिखाएँ एंडरसन Cooper 360°.
The program is normally broadcast live from a New यॉर्क नगर स्टुडियो ; however, कूपर प्रायः प्रसारण सजीव on स्थान लिये breaking news stories.
As of September 2011, he also serves as host of his own eponymous syndicated दिन बात दिखाएँ, एंडरसन सजीव, जिससे होगा be रद्द at the end of the second season.
A plot of a normal वितरण ( or bell-shaped वक्र ) जहाँ प्रत्येक बैंड रै a चौडाई of 1 मानक deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7 rule
Cumulative संभाव्यता of a सामान्य वितरण साथ अपेक्षित मान 0 and standard deviation 1.
In statistics and probability theory, standard deviation ( represented by the प्रतीक सिग्मा, σ ) shows कैसा much विभिन्नता or dispersion exists इससे the औसत ( औसत ), or expected value.
a कम मानक विचलन indicates कि the आंकड़ा अंक tend to be बहुत बंद to the औसत ; ऊँची मानक विचलन indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values.
The standard deviation of a यादृच्छिक परिवर्तनीय, सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी, आंकड़ा नियत, or संभाव्यता वितरण is the square root of its variance.
It is algebraically simpler हालांकि practically कम मजबूत than the औसत absolute deviation.
A useful property of standard विचलन is कि, नापसंद variance, it is expressed in the same units as the data.
Note, however, that for measurements with percentage as unit, the standard विचलन होगा have प्रतिशत अंक as ईकाई.
In addition to expressing the variability of a जनसांख्यिकी, मानक विचलन is commonly प्रयुक्त to माप विश्वास in सांख्यिकीय conclusions.
For example, the हाशिया of गलती in polling आंकड़ा is संकल्पित by calculating the अपेक्षित मानक विचलन in the results if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times.
The reported margin of गलती is typically परिचय twice the मानक विचलन ­– the दायरा of a 95 percent confidence interval.
In science, researchers commonly report the standard deviation of प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा, और तभी प्रभाव कि पतन दूर बाहर the दायरा of मानक विचलन हैं माना statistically significant – सामान्य यादृच्छिक गलती or विभिन्नता in the माप is in इस way distinguished from causal variation.
मानक विचलन is भी महत्वपूर्ण in वित्त, जहाँ the मानक विचलन on the रेट of वापसी on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment.
When only a sample of data from a जनसांख्यिकी is उपलब्धियाँ, the मानक विचलन of the जनसांख्यिकी can be अनुमानित by a परिवर्धित मात्रा पुकारा the `` नमूना standard deviation ''.
When the नमूना is the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी, इसके unmodified मानक विचलन is पुकारा the `` population standard deviation ''.
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( ullucus tuberosus ) is a संयंत्र grown primarily as a root vegetable, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown and economically important रूट फसलों in the andean प्रदेश of दक्षिण अमेरिका, दूसरी तभी to the potato.
It is known वहीँ साथ the आम नाम of पापा लिसा, लकिन भी by the क्षेत्रीय names melloco ( इक्वाडोर ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among others.
The leaf and the tuber हैं खाद्य, समान to पालक and the potato, respectively.
They are known to contain high स्तर of प्रोटीन, कैल्सियम, और केरोटीन.
Papalisa were used by the Incas prior to आगमन of europeans in दक्षिण अमेरिका.
ulluco tubers हैं marketed as `` धरती रत्नों '' in New Zealand, by Halfords Exotic Produce.
ulluco tubers in नई Zealand
An April 24, 1851 पोस्टर चेतावनी the `` रंगीन लोगों of बोस्टन '' परिचय policemen acting as slave catchers.
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive स्लेव अधिनियम थी passed by the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस on सितंबर 18, 1850, as भाग of the सुलह of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers.
This was one of the most विवादास्पद अधिनियमों of the 1850 सुलह और heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` slave power conspiracy ''.
it घोषित कि सब runaway स्लेव यहूद, upon कैप्चर, to be returned to their masters.
abolitionists nicknamed it the `` bloodhound विधि '' लिये the dogs that were used to track down runaway slaves.
Frank Joseph Pallone, Jr. ( born October 30, 1951 ) is the u.S. प्रतिनिधि लिये, सेवारत चूंकि 1993.
He is a member of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी.
He previously represented the 3rd ज़िला from 1988 to 1993.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a इन्जील duo इससे नई ऑरलियन्स, louisiana in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The group was marketed as a gospel वैकल्पिक to r & b लड़की समूह ऐसे as नियति 's चाइल्ड and TLC.
trin-i-tee 5:7 रै sold over 2.5 million albums.
In 1998, the group released उनके पहला एल्बम हकदार trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे डेब्यू at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts.
The album featured the गीतों `` परमेश्वर 's अनुग्रह '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do n't तुम रोते ''.
The album बाद became certified gold.
In 1999, Terri Brown left the समूह और थी बाद replaced by सिंगर एड्रियन Anderson.
During that year, the group recorded और released उनके दूसरी एल्बम, आध्यात्मिक Love.
The album became the group 's दूसरी # 1 एल्बम on the शीर्ष इन्जील charts.
The album contained the singles `` put अपना हैंड्स '' and `` My Body ''.
In 2002, the समूह released उनके तीसरा एल्बम the चुंबन जिससे debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts.
In 2007, the group left GospoCentric रिकॉर्ड और हस्ताक्षरित a रिकार्ड सौदे साथ स्पिरिट Rising Music.
In late 2007, Trin-i-tee 5:7 released their पांचवां एल्बम t57, जिससे प्रदर्शित the शीर्ष टेन इन्जील सिंगल `` सुनो ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the शीर्ष इन्जील एल्बम, # 5 on the शीर्ष ईसाई चार्ट, और # 12 on the Top R & B charts.
The United States federal earned income tax credit or earned income credit ( EITC or EIC ) is a refundable कर क्रेडिट लिये low- और medium-income individuals और युगल, primarily लिये those जो have qualifying children.
When the क्रेडिट exceeds the राशि of कर owed, it परिणाम in a कर refund to those who claim the credit.
This credit is provided to ऑफसेट the बोझ of सोशल सुरक्षा कर और भी to प्रचार an incentive to work.
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as उनके qualifying चाइल्ड ( ren ), the आयु, संबंध, और साझा रेसिडेंसी आवश्यकताएँ जरूर be met, as well as some other requirements.
U.S. कर फ़ॉर्म 1040ez, 1040a, or 1040 can be प्रयुक्त to अर्जी EIC without qualifying children.
to अर्जी the क्रेडिट साथ qualifying children, 1040a or 1040 must be used, as well as attaching Schedule EIC.
EIC phases in slowly, रै a medium-length पठार, और तब phases आउट अधिक धीरे than it phased in.
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying चाइल्ड ), it is सदा अस्तबलों to have एक अधिक डालर of वास्तविक सैलरी or मजदूरी ( हालांकि technically, चूंकि the eic तालिका चालें by पचास डालर increments, it 's सदा preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ).
For tax year 2011, the अधिकतम eic लिये a सिंगल व्यक्ति or युगल दाखिल बगैर qualifying children was $ 464.
The maximum eic साथ एक qualifying चाइल्ड थी $ 3,094, साथ दो children थी $ 5,112, और with three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
These amounts are indexed annually लिये महंगाई.
The earned income tax credit has been part of political debates in the संयुक्त राज्य regarding whether उठाने the न्यूनतम मजदूरी or increasing eic होगा better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
The following is a सूची of मध्यांतर shows आयोजित at the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition, the Super Bowl halftime show represents a आधारभूत कड़ी to पॉप संस्कृति, जिससे helps broaden the टेलीविज़न दर्शक और देशभर ब्याज.
in सबसे सालो चूंकि the mid-1980s, the मध्यांतर दिखाएँ of the सुपर Bowl has featured popular recording artists and other well-known celebrities.
It has measurably increased टेलीविज़न दर्शक दौरान और बाद the मध्यांतर show.
The प्रदर्शन is regarded एक of the most-watched कार्यक्रम in अमरीकी टेलीविज़न annually with over 100 million viewers in the United States alone.
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad range of music types, including pop, rock, क्लासिक चट्टान, देश, हिप हॉप, रैप, ब्लूज़, and soul.
In some years, short skits or नाटक दृश्यों हैं acted आउट on a stage.
The प्रदर्शन समूह up साथ लोगों रै performed at the सबसे सुपर Bowl halftime shows, starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s.
According to Nielsen ratings, Super Bowl xlvi मध्यांतर दिखाएँ headlined by मैडोना in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime show in history, with 114 million viewers or about 3 million more than the actual game.
Beyonce 's 2013 halftime show प्रदर्शन थी the दूसरी सबसे viewed दिखाएँ in इतिहास.
it is सूचीबद्ध on the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड as the largest tv audience for a Super Bowl half-time performance.
International Men 's Day ( IMD ) is an annual अंतरराष्ट्रीय इवेंट मनाये on 19th नवम्बर.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago, the day और इसके कार्यक्रम ढूँढें support इससे a किस्में of individuals और समूह in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the caribbean, North America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO, Director of Women and संस्कृति of सलाम ingeborg breines कहा of imd, `` इस is an बेहतरीन विचार और होता दे some gender balance. ''
She added कि युनेस्को थी looking आगे to cooperating with the organizers.
the उद्देश्य of celebrating an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's दिन शामिल focusing on मेन 's और लड़कों ' स्वास्थ्य, improving लिंग संबंध, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive male role models.
It is an occasion to हाइलाइट पक्षपात विरूद्ध मेन और लड़कों और to celebrate उनके उपलब्धियाँ और योगदान, in particular लिये उनके योगदान to जातियाँ, family, marriage, and child care.
The broader and ultimate aim of the इवेंट is to प्रचार मौलिक humanitarian values.
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries, including Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, United States, Romania, Singapore, Malta, United Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Botswana, australia, बुरुंडी, हंगेरियाई, आयरलैंड, आइल of man, घाना, कनाडा, डेनमार्क, नार्वे, ऑस्ट्रिया, बोस्निया और हर्ज़ेगोविना, युक्त, फ़्रांस, इटली, पाकिस्तानी, क्यूबा, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा, st. किट्स और नेविस, st. लूसिया, हरा और केमन आइलैंड्स, on 19 नवम्बर, और वैश्विक support लिये the celebration is broad.
Valley गाँव parkvalley
गाँव is a ज़िला in the सैन फर्नांडो Valley region of Los Angeles, California.
The median age of इसके जनसांख्यिकी, at 36, is `` बूढ़ा लिये the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स. '' और इसके औसत household size of two people is low, compared to other parts of the city.
Developmental psychology is the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of परिवर्तन कि occur in इंसान beings over the course of their life span.
Originally चिंतित साथ infants और children, the फ़ील्ड रै विस्तारित to शामिल किशोरावस्था, वयस्क विकास, वृद्धावस्था, and the entire life span.
This field examines बदलें आरपार a व्यापक दायरा of विषय सहित मोटर कौशल और अन्य psycho-physiological प्रक्रियाओं ; संज्ञानात्मक विकास involving क्षेत्रों ऐसे as प्रॉब्लम solving, moral समझना, और conceptual understanding ; language acquisition ; social, personality, and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation.
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to जिससे विकास occurs through the क्रमिक accumulation of ज्ञान बनाम stage-like विकास, or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience.
Many researchers are interested in the बातचीत between निजी विशेषताएँ, the व्यक्तिगत 's बर्ताव, और पर्यावरणीय कारकों सहित सोशल कॉन्टेक्स्ट, और उनके impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach.
developmental मनोविज्ञान informs अनेक लागू फ़ील्ड, सहित : शैक्षणिक मनोविज्ञान, child psychopathology, and forensic developmental psychology.
Developmental psychology complements several other basic शोध फ़ील्ड in मनोविज्ञान सहित सोशल मनोविज्ञान, संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान, ecological मनोविज्ञान, और तुलनात्मक psychology.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional अक्षर जो पहला appeared on the 1970s अमरीकी sitcom सब in the परिवार.
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of Mike Stivic ( played by Rob Reiner ) and Gloria stivic ( निभाई by सैली struthers ), और the पोता of आर्ची बंकर ( कैरल o'connor ) और एडिथ बंकर ( जां stapleton ).
The character पहला appeared as a नवजात baby in a two-part एपीसोड of All in the Family which aired in December 1975.
After many दिखावे on सब in the परिवार जबतक reiner और struthers बाएँ the श्रेणी in 1978 ( by कि समय, जॉय था महरूम निभाई सबसे प्रायः by प्रत्यावर्ती जुड़वा जेसन और जस्टिन draeger ), the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) Archie Bunker 's Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In this instance, the character was played by चाइल्ड कर्ता लंड billingsley और थी appropriately pre-school age.
With Gloria now separated from Mike, वो लौटे to आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस साथ जॉय in the फ़रवरी 1982 एपीसोड `` ग्लोरिया Comes Home. ''
in इस एपीसोड, जॉय थी निभाई by Christopher Johnston.
जॉय stivic थी a नियमित अक्षर on the सब in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983.
On this series, in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker character had स्थानांतरित to upstate नई यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to कार्य as an सहायक veterinarian, the भाग of जॉय stivic थी निभाई by ten-year-old कर्ता Christian Jacobs.
After Gloria was canceled in 1983, Joey Stivic disappeared from prime time television for 11 years, जबतक the अक्षर बना एक पिछला रूप on 704 hauser, a short-lived 1994 श्रेणी परिचय a ब्लैक परिवार जो था स्थानांतरित into the old Bunker home, years after Bunker had sold it.
In this appearance, the Joey Stivic अक्षर थी निभाई by केसी siemaszko, an कर्ता born in 1961 ( 14 सालो पहले जॉय Stivic 's fictional birth ).
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` जॉय stivic गुड़िया '' ( पुकारा `` आर्ची बंकर 's पोता '' ) जिससे थी billed as the `` पहला anatomically correct male doll. ''
The doll inspired mild controversy at the समय, और is a collectors ' मद आज.
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th संस्करण of the सालाना कटोरी खेल निभाई on जनवरी 1, 2011, as भाग of the 2010 कॉलेज football season.
Played in Pasadena, California, the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain West Conference पराजित the विस्कॉन्सिन badgers of the बिग टेन सम्मेलन by a score of 21 – 19.
the pasadena टूर्नामेंट of गुलाब संघ was the organizer of the game.
vizio inc. थी the कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक और the खेल थी officially named `` The Rose Bowl Game presented by Vizio ''.
This game marked the first समय a टोली इससे a non-automatic qualifying सम्मेलन निभाई in, और जीती, the Rose Bowl in its 97 years.
The contest was ब्रॉडकास्ट on केबल टेलीविज़न स्टेशन ईएसपीएन साथ a रेडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on ईएसपीएन रेडियो और xm उपग्रह रेडियो and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet.
कवरेज began at 1:30 pm ( pst ) साथ kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST ).
This marked the first time that the game was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( स्थलीय टेलीविज़न ) चूंकि the खेल prior to the 1952 रोज़ कटोरी, जिससे थी the first nationally televised college football game.
The Rose Bowl Game, themed Building Dreams, Friendships, & यादें, थी a contractual sell-out, साथ 64,500 टिकटें आबंटित to the participating teams and conferences.
Ticket prices लिये सब सीटे in the रोज़ कटोरी हैं listed at $ 145.
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses सदस्यों, प्रायोजकों, नगर of pasadena निवासियों, और the सामान्य पब्लिक.
the रोज़ कटोरी स्टेडियम क्षमता is listed at approximately 91,000.
The Declaration of स्वतंत्रता is a बयान अपनाया by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a नई nation—the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
John एडम्स थी a नेता in pushing लिये स्वतंत्रता, जिससे was unanimously approved on July 2.
A committee था already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा, to be तैयार when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas जेफरसन to लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़, जिससे कॉंग्रेस होता संपादन to उपज the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, अधिक than a साल बाद the outbreak of the अमरीकी Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the Independence Day is मनाये on जुलाई 4, हालांकि एडम्स चाही July 2.
After ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4, कॉंग्रेस जारी the घोषणा of Independence in several forms.
It थी initially प्रकाशित as the मुद्रित डनलप broadside कि was widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a हस्ताक्षरित नक़ल कि is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the घोषणा थी स्वीकृत on जुलाई 4, the तिथि of its signing was August 2.
The original July 4 United राज्य घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता पाण्डुलिपि थी खोया जबकि सब अन्य नक़ल have महरूम derived from this original document.
The sources and interpretation of the घोषणा have महरूम the विषय of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii, और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक और विधिक rights, including a right of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा थी initially उपेक्षित बाद the American Revolution.
Since then, it रै आइये to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on इंसान अधिकारों, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable अधिकारों, कि among ये हैं जीवन, स्वतंत्रता और the pursuit of सुख.
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '', containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential शब्द in अमरीकी history. ''
The ड्योढ़ी आए to represent a moral मानक to which the United States should strive.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who considered the घोषणा to be the न्यास of उसके राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र, और argued कि the घोषणा is a बयान of सिद्धान्त through जिससे the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन लोगों throughout the संसार.
Chitty Chitty बंग बंग is a 1968 अंग्रेजों musical फिल्मी loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel.
the फिल्मी 's स्क्रिप्ट is by roald dahl और केन ह्यूजेस and its songs by the Sherman Brothers.
It stars Dick Van Dyke as Caractacus potts और सैली ऐन howes as Truly Scrumptious.
The फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by केन ह्यूजेस और उत्पादित by अल्बर्ट R. ब्रोकोली ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films, also based on Fleming 's novels ).
John Stears पर्यवेक्षित the खास प्रभाव.
Irwin kostal पर्यवेक्षित और conducted the म्यूज़िक, जबकि the musical संख्याएँ were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood.
A region is arid when it is characterized by a कठोर कमी of उपलब्धियाँ जल, to the extent of hindering or preventing the विकास and development of plant and animal life.
Environments subject to arid climates tend to कमी वनस्पति और हैं पुकारा xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these places शामिल सबसे of अफ़्रीकी और भाग of दक्षिण अमेरिका and Central America.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological चिह्न, जिससे is संबद्ध साथ the नक्षत्र Cancer.
It spans the 90-120th उपाधि of the zodiac, between 90 और 125.25 उपाधि of celestial देशांतर, जिससे the सूर्य transits इस area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is फिलहाल इससे जुलाई 21 to अगस्त 9.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 8, 1960.
The Republican पार्टी मनोनीत लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी मनोनीत John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, रिपब्लिकन ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, थी नहीं योग्य लिये re-election बाद सेवारत the अधिकतम दो शर्तें अनुमत by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 मत, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving उसे a विजय of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in which all fifty of the वर्तमान संयुक्त राज्य participated.
a क्रमांक of कारकों बताइये क्यों the चुनाव was so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन, और he था the लाभ of 17 लाख अधिक पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than Republicans.
furthermore, the नई मत कि कैनेडी gained among catholics लगभग neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched निक्सन 's.
in the समाप्त, निक्सन 's जोर on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी वज़न, और he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded अभियान संगठन to जीत the नामांकन, सुरक्षित समर्थन, और, साथ the सहायता of the पिछला of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on कार्यशील mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the South and used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष और vice-president, a घटना कि रै महरूम दोहराया once, by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
Sherwood is a नगर in वॉशिंगटन काउंटी, ऑरेगॉन, United States.
Located in the southeast corner of the काउंटी, it is a आवासीय जातियाँ in the tualatin घाटी दक्षिणपश्चिम of Portland.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,791 at the 2000 census.
according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the जनसांख्यिकी was 18,205 residents.
indirectly नामित लिये the शेरवुड वन in इंग्लैण्ड, it was first incorporated in 1893 as a town.
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was signed into law by अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश on अक्तूबर 26, 2001.
The title of the act is a ten letter एक्रोनिम ( यूएसए patriot ) कि स्टैंड लिये uniting ( और ) strengthening अमेरिका ( by ) providing उचित टूल्स जरूरी ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001.
The act, as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th, significantly घटाया प्रतिबंध in विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसियों ' महफ़िल of प्रज्ञा भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य ; विस्तारित the सचिव of the treasury’s प्राधिकार to विनियमित वित्तीय ट्रांजेक्शन, विशेषकर those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism, यूँ enlarging the क्रमांक of क्रियाएँ to जिससे the यूएसए patriot act’s विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन शक्तियां can be applied.
On May 26, 2011, अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा प्रयुक्त an autopen to चिह्न the patriot sunsets एक्सटेंशन अधिनियम of 2011, a four-year एक्सटेंशन of तीन कुंजी प्रावधानों in the यूएसए patriot अधिनियम जबकि he थी in फ़्रांस : roving wiretaps, searches of business records ( the `` library records provision `` ), and conducting surveillance of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities not linked to terrorist groups.
Republican leaders questioned if the use of the autopen मिले the संवैधानिक आवश्यकताएँ लिये हस्ताक्षर a विधेयक into law.
A house in महारानी ऐनी स्टाइल at 223 एवेन्यू A.
snohomish is a नगर in snohomish काउंटी, वॉशिंगटन, United States.
The population थी 9,098 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The mayor of snohomish is karen guzak, और the नगर मैनेजर is Larry Bauman.
Snohomish prides itself लिये इसके ऐतिहासिक शहर, और थी एकबार ज्ञात लिये इसके अनेक पुरातन shops when it was known as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest. ''
The historic business and residential center of the कस्बा constitutes the snohomish ऐतिहासिक ज़िला, जिससे is सूचीबद्ध on the नेशनल पंजीकरण of Historic Places.
Many घरों भालू प्लाक साथ the साल the हाउस थी निर्मित और the नाम of the family or individual who originally occupied it.
Once every year, the city देता टुर of the ऐतिहासिक घरों ; एक of उन्हें, the blackman हाउस, is a year-round museum.
A सामान्य विमानन एयरफील्ड, घनघोर एयरफील्ड, is कम than एक मील southwest of Downtown Snohomish.
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an American चट्टान बैंड कि थी formed in charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, संयुक्त राज्य, in 1991.
The founding सदस्यों यहूद singer-songwriter और guitarist डेव matthews, bassist stefan lessard, वादक /backing vocalist Carter Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore.
Boyd Tinsley was added to the band as a violinist जल्द बाद the बैंड थी formed.
Moore died suddenly in अगस्त 2008 due to जटिलताओं इससे चोटों sustained in an ATV accident.
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the flecktones रै चूंकि भर मूर 's स्पॉट as the band 's saxophonist.
Rashawn Ross and टिम रेनॉल्ड्स have भी become full-time touring सदस्यों of the band.
The band 's 2009 एल्बम बिग whiskey और the groogrux किंग ( the पहला एल्बम चूंकि मूर 's मौत ) debuted at क्रमांक one on the Billboard 200, earning the band their fifth consecutive number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so.
Their most recent album, Away from the World, was released in 2012, and भी debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड chart.
As of 2010, the Dave matthews बैंड रै बेची over 30 लाख रिकॉर्ड worldwide.
The band is known for their सालाना summer-long टुर of the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of उनके songs, accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show.
This portion of the दौरे रै become a स्टैम्प of dmb और रै grown साथ the बैंड चूंकि fenton विलियम्स began working with them in the early 1990s.
After twenty लगातार सालो of touring the बैंड घोषित कि it would take the summer of 2011 off.
Dave Matthews बैंड रै जीती एक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, और थी awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award.
according to जूलियन बंध, `` वे बेचें आउट the largest arenas on धरती, लकिन frequently give their music away. ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter from an अलिखित रोमांस is a गद्य व्यंग्य लिखा by louisa may alcott, परिचय उसके परिवार 's भागीदारी साथ the transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s.
The work थी पहला प्रकाशित in a नई यॉर्क समाचारपत्र in 1873, और reprinted in 1874, 1876, and 1915 and after.
In her account, Alcott provides the रियल लोगों शामिल साथ पतला pseudonymous disguises.
Her father अमोस bronson alcott is `` abel मेमने, '' जबकि उसके संगी और जातियाँ co-founder चार्ल्स लेन is `` timon Lion ; '' Abigail May Alcott, Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife, is `` Sister Hope. ''
Alcott depicts her father as वर्चस्व by उसके अधिक forceful संगी, और दोनो मेन as लापरवाह और अव्यवहारिक dreamers.
The मेन of the जातियाँ खर्च उनके समय in pointless debates जबकि सिस्टर Hope works from dawn to dusk to maintain their existence.
A crisis arises at harvest समय, जब the अनाज क्रॉप is threatened by an approaching storm.
In Alcott 's शब्द, `` परिचय the समय the अनाज थी तैयार to हाउस, कुछ कॉल of the Oversoul wafted all the men away. ''
Sister Hope organizes the तभी उपलब्धियाँ सहायता, तीन छोटी लड़कियों और a लड़के, और manages to save the crop.
The little जातियाँ collapses as जल्द as the मौसम turns ठंडा, जब it becomes clear that their provisions are too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon Lion and his son abscond to जुड़ें the shakers — हालांकि timon is अप्रसन्न to सीख कि जीवन among them is `` all work and no play. ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the एंटरप्राइज़ ; बाद दिनों of despair he begins to खा again तभी जब he realizes कि उसके family needs him.
Sister Hope finds a way for उन्हें to subsist और persevere.
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this टुकड़ा is paralleled in उसके अनोखा, प्रकाशित in the वही year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats. ''
`` अनुभवातीत जंगली जई '' रै महरूम reprinted in several modern editions.
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot पहाड़ in the sawatch दायरा, भाग of the रॉकी kyu in Colorado.
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness निकट the भुत कस्बा of पावन क्रॉस नगर और in त्रिभुज County.
It was named for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the पूर्वोत्तर फेस.
Under USDA Forest Service administration, the पहाड़ थी proclaimed `` पावन क्रॉस नेशनल स्मारक '' by हर्बर्ट हूवर on may 11, 1929.
The monument was transferred to the नेशनल पार्क सेवा in 1933.
In 1950, it was returned to the Forest Service and lost its National Monument status—the क्रमांक of विज़िटर to the पहाड़ और the आसपास `` pilgrim 's हट '' था waned, और the व्यय of full-time स्टाफ could not be justified.
This पहाड़ रै महरूम the विषय of चित्रकार, photographers and even a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, ( The Cross of Snow ).
The first publicly available फोटोग्राफ थी प्रकाशित in नेशनल भौगोलिक पत्रिका.
Thomas Moran चित्रित the पहाड़ in an आयल पेंटिंग, जिससे अभी is भाग of the संग्रहण of the संग्रहालय of the American West, part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles, California.
It is still much photographed लकिन it is नहीं as खूब ज्ञात आज as it was in the past.
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears Lake, directly अंतर्गत the ईस्ट फेस of the शिखर, tuhare झीलों, in a cirque कि झूठ दक्षिण of a significant subpeak, and several other lakes.
Notable locations within include the Dotsero volcano ( निकट अंतरराज्यीय 70 ), vail और aspen.
us 24 रनों निकट the शिखर through Gilman.
Photochrom print of माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस c. 1900.
This image is a reversed दृश्य of the पहाड़ compared to कैसा it दरअसल appears.
The first अंकित ascent of पावन क्रॉस थी in 1873, by F. V. hayden और फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. जैक्सन दौरान एक of Hayden 's geographical surveys.
However, the peak may well have been ascended previously by खनिक or अमरीकी इंडियंस.
The first शीत ascent of the शिखर थी बना in 1943 by russel keene और हावर्ड Freedman of the 10th Mountain Division, then stationed at Camp Hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four अलग रूट, साथ the easiest और सबसे आम रूट होने the उत्तर लकीरें, which involves of vertical gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling.
The Cross Couloir route forms the vertical portion of the प्रसिद्ध क्रॉस विशेषता, और provides an उन्नत हिम चढ़ाई or चरम स्की descent.
माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस रै a इतिहास of endangering the lives of many hikers.
Primarily, the hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar साथ the risks of प्रवेश wilderness क्षेत्रों और do नहीं लाओ पर्याप्त उपकरण और आपूर्तियाँ to respond to emergency conditions.
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently पहुँचे on a long दिन hike, unprepared hikers हैं अक्सर stranded or खोया due to बदलना पर्यावरणीय शर्तें और भ्रम regarding the surrounding landscape, especially on the descent of North Ridge.
Thorough शोध और उचित नियोजन चाहिए prevent most tragedies.
Mount of the पावन क्रॉस is accessible इससे tigiwon Road, south of Minturn, Colorado.
The Half Moon pass ट्रेल is the मानक रूट to the समिट of माउंट of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge.
following the पतन क्रीक ट्रेल to an ascent of पायदान पहाड़ ट्रेल provides the बेहतरीन view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge.
The GSM logo is प्रयुक्त to पहचानो संगत handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a मानक नियत विकसित by the यूरोपीय दूरसंचार मानकों संस्थान ( etsi ) to describe प्रोटोकॉल लिये दूसरी पीढी ( 2g ) डिजिटल सेल्यूलर संजाल प्रयुक्त by mobile phones.
It became the de facto वैश्विक मानक लिये मोबाईल communications with over 80 % market share.
The GSM standard was developed as a replacement लिये पहला पीढी ( 1g ) एनालॉग सेल्यूलर संजाल, और originally वर्णित a डिजिटल, सर्किट switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony.
This was expanded over time to include data communications, पहला by सर्किट switched हस्तांतरण, तब पैकेट आंकड़ा हस्तांतरण via gprs ( सामान्य पैकेट रेडियो सेवाएं ) और किनारे ( उन्नत आंकड़ा rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ).
Further improvements यहूद बना जब the 3gpp विकसित तीसरा पीढी ( 3g ) umts मानकों followed by चौथी पीढी ( 4G ) LTE Advanced standards.
`` GSM '' is a ट्रेडमार्क स्वामित्व by the जीएसएम संघ.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the lend-lease विधेयक to दे सहायता to ब्रिटेन और चीन ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act was an अधिनियम जहाँ the संयुक्त राज्य था समर्थित इसके allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) was the विधि कि प्रारंभ a कार्यक्रम अंतर्गत जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the संयुक्त किंगडम, the USSR, Republic of China, Free France, and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It was signed into law on March 11, 1941, a year and a हाफ बाद the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii in यूरोपीय in सितंबर 1939.
This थी नौ महीने पहले the u.S. entered the war in December 1941.
Formally titled an अधिनियम to further प्रचार the रक्षा of the संयुक्त राज्य, the अधिनियम effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality.
A total of $ 50.1 billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain, $ 11.3 billion to the सोवियत संघ, $ 3.2 अरब to फ़्रांस, $ 1.6 अरब to चीन, और छोटी रकम to अन्य Allies.
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services such as rent on air bases that went to the U.S., और totaled $ 7.8 अरब ; of इस, $ 6.8 अरब आए इससे the अंग्रेजों और the Commonwealth.
the शर्तें of the अनुबंध provided कि the materiel थी to be प्रयुक्त until time for their return or destruction.
Supplies after the termination date were sold to Britain at a large छूट लिये £1.075 अरब using long-term लोन इससे the संयुक्त राज्य.
कनाडा संचालित a समान कार्यक्रम that sent $ 4.7 billion in supplies to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union.
The United राज्य किया नहीं चार्ज लिये सहायता supplied अंतर्गत इस विधान.
This कार्यक्रम थी a निर्णायक कदम दूर इससे non-interventionist नीति, जिससे था वर्चस्व संयुक्त राज्य विदेशी संबंध since the end of World War I, towards international involvement.
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), भी पुकारा sunroot, sunchoke, धरती ठहराना or topinambour, is a प्रजाति of सूरजमुखी देशी to पूर्वी उत्तर अमेरिका, और मिला इससे पूर्वी कनाडा and Maine west to North Dakota, and south to northern Florida and Texas.
It is also cultivated widely आरपार the शीतोष्ण मण्डल लिये इसके tuber, जिससे is used as a root vegetable.
Castillo San फेलिप डेल morro भी ज्ञात as फोर्ट सैन फेलिप डेल morro or morro किला, is a 16th-century citadel located in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in Wiltshire, इंग्लैण्ड, परिचय वेस्ट of amesbury और उत्तर of salisbury.
One of the most प्रसिद्ध साइट in the संसार, stonehenge is the remains of a रिंग of standing stones set within earthworks.
It is in the middle of the सबसे घना जटिल of पाषाणकालीन और कांस्य आयु स्मारक in इंग्लैण्ड, including several hundred burial mounds.
Archaeologists believe it थी निर्मित anywhere इससे 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 सुझाया कि the पहला पत्थरों यहूद उठाया between 2400 और 2200 bc, whilst another सिद्धान्त suggests कि bluestones may have महरूम उठाया at the site as early as 3000 BC.
The surrounding circular earth bank and खाई, जिससे constitute the earliest phase of the स्मारक, have महरूम दिनाँक to परिचय 3100 BC.
The site and its surroundings यहूद added to the युनेस्को 's सूची of संसार विरासत साइट in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge.
It is a national legally सुरक्षित अनुसूचित प्राचीन स्मारक.
Stonehenge is owned by the क्राउन और प्रबंधित by अंग्रेज़ी विरासत, जबकि the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust.
Archaeological evidence मिला by the stonehenge riverside प्रोजेक्ट in 2008 indicates कि stonehenge could have महरूम a दफ़न ground from its earliest beginnings.
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that जमा contain इंसान अस्थि इससे as जल्दी as 3000 bc, जब the खाई और बैंको यहूद first dug.
Such जमा जारी at stonehenge लिये at least another 500 years.
the साईट is a प्लेस of धार्मिक significance and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry.
The NCAA Women 's प्रभाग i चैंपियनशिप is an सालाना कॉलेज बास्केट tournament for women.
Held प्रत्येक अप्रैल, the महिलाओं 's चैंपियनशिप थी inaugurated in the 1981–82 season.
The ncaa टूर्नामेंट थी preceded by the aiaw महिलाओं 's Basketball Tournament, which was held annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball थी एक of बारह महिलाओं 's खेल added to the ncaa चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम लिये the 1981-82 स्कूल साल, as the ncaa सगाई in बैटल साथ the संघ for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports.
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the same twelve ( and other ) खेल ; however, बाद a साल of डुअल महिलाओं 's championships, the ncaa prevailed, जबकि the aiaw disbanded.
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the सालो, विशेषकर चूंकि 2003, जब the फाइनल चैंपियनशिप खेल थी स्थानांतरित to the मंगलवार following the सोमवार men 's championship game.
The women 's championship खेल is अभी the फाइनल overall खेल of the कॉलेज बास्केट season.
Before that, the Women 's Final Four was usually played on the Friday before the मेन 's फाइनल चार or the घंटों पहले the मेन निभाई on the फाइनल शनिवार of the टूर्नामेंट.
The final was usually निभाई the संडे दोपहर following the मेन 's फाइनल चार.
The tournament bracket is made up of champions इससे प्रत्येक प्रभाग i सम्मेलन, जिससे प्राप्त automatic bids.
The remaining slots are at-large बोलियों, साथ टीमों चुनी by an ncaa चयन कमेटी.
The selection process and tournament seedings हैं आधारित on अनेक कारकों, सहित टोली rankings, win-loss रिकॉर्ड और दरजा प्रतिशत Index ( RPI ) data.
नापसंद the मेन 's टूर्नामेंट, वहीँ हैं तभी 32 at-large बोलियों ( as of the next tournament in 2014 ), and no play-in game.
The women 's tournament, like the men 's, is मंचन in a सिंगल विलोपन स्वरूप, और is भाग of the मीडिया और पब्लिक frenzy ज्ञात colloquially as कूच दीवानगी or the बिग Dance.
All 63 games have महरूम ब्रॉडकास्ट on टेलीविज़न चूंकि 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2.
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS, local teams are shown on each channel when available, with `` whip-around '' कवरेज designed to शोकेस the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी प्रतियोगिताओं in the बाकी of the country.
the rosetta स्टोन in the British Museum
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed साथ a डिक्री जारी at मेम्फिस in 196 bc on निमित्त of किंग टॉलेमी V.
The डिक्री appears in तीन स्क्रिप्ट : the अपर टेक्स्ट is प्राचीन मिश्र चित्रलिपि, the मध्य portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient Greek.
Because it presents essentially the वही टेक्स्ट in सब तीन स्क्रिप्ट ( साथ कुछ नाबालिग मतभेद between them ), it provided the key to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Originally displayed within a temple, the stone was probably moved during the जल्दी ईसाई or मध्यकालीन काल और आखिरकार प्रयुक्त as भवन सामग्री in the निर्माण of फोर्ट जुलिएन निकट the कस्बा of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta.
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by a सिपाही, pierre-françois bouchard, of the फ्रेंच expedition to Egypt.
as the पहला प्राचीन मिश्र दुभाषिया टेक्स्ट बरामद in आधुनिक टाइम्स, the rosetta स्टोन aroused फैली पब्लिक ब्याज साथ its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language.
Lithographic नक़ल और प्लास्टर casts began circulating among European museums and scholars.
Meanwhile, British troops पराजित the फ्रेंच in मिश्र in 1801, और the असली स्टोन आए into British possession under the Capitulation of Alexandria.
Transported to London, it has been on पब्लिक प्रदर्शक at the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय चूंकि 1802.
It is the most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in the British Museum.
Ever since its rediscovery, the stone has been the फ़ोकस of राष्ट्रवादी rivalries, सहित इसके ट्रांसफ़र इससे फ्रेंच to अंग्रेजों कब्ज़ा दौरान the napoleonic युद्धों, a long-running विवाद over the सापेक्ष मान of यंग 's और champollion 's योगदान to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands for the stone 's return to Egypt.
पढ़ाई of the डिक्री थी already अंतर्गत रास्ता as the पहला पूरा अनुवाद of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
It was 20 years, however, before the transliteration of the मिश्र स्क्रिप्ट थी घोषित by jean-françois champollion in पेरिस in 1822 ; it took longer स्टिल पहले विद्वानों यहूद समर्थ to पढ़ा प्राचीन मिश्र inscriptions और साहित्य confidently.
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the वही टेक्स्ट ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट प्रयुक्त ध्वन्यात्मक वर्ण to वर्तनी विदेशी names ( 1802 ) ; कि the hieroglyphic टेक्स्ट किया so as खूब, और था pervasive similarities to the demotic ( थामस यंग, 1814 ) ; और that, in addition to being used for foreign names, phonetic characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were discovered later, and several similar Egyptian दुभाषिया or trilingual inscriptions हैं अभी ज्ञात, सहित दो थोड़ा पहले ptolemaic डिक्री ( the डिक्री of canopus in 238 bc, और the मेम्फिस डिक्री of टॉलेमी iv, ca. 218 BC ).
the rosetta स्टोन is इसलिए no longer अद्वितीय, लकिन it was the essential key to modern understanding of Ancient Egyptian literature and civilization.
the पद rosetta स्टोन is अभी प्रयुक्त in अन्य contexts as the name for the essential clue to a new field of knowledge.
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog, poison frog or formerly poison arrow frog ) is the आम नाम of a समूह of मेंढक in the परिवार dendrobatidae जिससे हैं देशी to सेंट्रल and South America.
These species are diurnal and प्रायः have brightly रंगीन लाशें.
Although all जंगली dendrobatids हैं at तनिक somewhat विषाक्त, स्तर of toxicity vary considerably इससे एक प्रजाति to the next and from one population to another.
अनेक प्रजाति हैं threatened.
These amphibians are प्रायः पुकारा `` डार्ट मेंढक '' due to the amerindians ' स्वदेशी उपयोग of their to poison the tips of blowdarts.
However, of over 175 प्रजाति, तभी चार have महरूम प्रलेखित as होने प्रयुक्त लिये इस purpose ( curare पौधे हैं अधिक commonly प्रयुक्त ), सब of जिससे आइये from the Phyllobates genus, which is characterized by the relatively large size and high levels of toxicity of its members.
Cajeta is a मैक्सिकन confection of thickened सिरप प्रायः बना of sweetened caramelised milk.
According to chef Rick Bayless, the name for cajeta came इससे the स्पेनी phrase al punto de cajeta, जिससे अर्थात् `` a द्रव thickened to the पाइंट at जिससे a चमचा drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked ''.
Another hypothesis is that it takes इसके नाम इससे the छोटी लकड़ी बाक्स in जिससे it थी traditionally packed.
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of guanajuato, हालांकि it is भी उत्पादित साथ the परंपरागत विधि in अनेक कस्बों of the राज्य of jalisco, ऐसे as mazamitla, sayula, and Atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk, or occasionally a sweetened द्रव, stirring अक्सर, जबतक it becomes बहुत viscous due to वाष्पीकरण of water, and caramelized.
While बकरी मिल्क is the सबसे usual आधार, अन्य liquids or juices may be used.
In celaya, और आखिरकार the बाकी of मैक्सिको, the confection of हाफ बकरी 's मिल्क और हाफ गाय 's मिल्क became ज्ञात by the नाम cajeta, but elsewhere, the milk candy became known as leche quemada, dulce de leche, etc.
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based sweets like pera and the मिल्क फ़ज burfi, और in the ओपेरा फ़ज of the u.S. cajeta is खाया on इसके अपना as a मीठी, as a स्प्रेड or भरना लिये breads और pastries, such as churros, and as a topping for ice cream.
Certain liquors हैं added to खास व्यंजनों पुकारा cajeta envinada.
In जोड, cajeta envinada especial is समृद्ध साथ किशमिश, almonds, pecans or nuts.
Often it is used as a टॉपिंग लिये crêpes, as a मीठी सॉस boiled और softened down with milk to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty dessert.
In मैक्सिको अनेक ब्रांड्स मेक cajeta लकिन the सबसे common brand is Coronado.
It is also very आम to प्लेस cajeta between obleas to मेक a परंपरागत Mexican dessert.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur फिलिप लुई ; born 21 जून 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, और डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, जमैका, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट और the grenadines, बेलीज़, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा, और संत किट्स और नेविस.
Prince William was educated at चार स्कूलों in the संयुक्त किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे the University of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, Belize, तंजानिया, और कीनिया जहाँ he रै जिया और holidayed several times.
Prince William has also taken kiswahili अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in कीनिया और Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a लेफ्टिनेंट in the ब्लूज़ और रॉयल्स रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे —serving साथ उसके bhai Prince Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, was promoted to Flight लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in अनुक्रम to become a full-time पायलट साथ the ढूंढें और बचाव Force.
In 2010, he समाप्त उसके सामान्य और special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर प्रशिक्षण और गई on to raf घाटी on no. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड, कैथरीन मिडलटन, on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर Abbey.
Hours prior to his wedding, Prince William was निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, अर्ल of strathearn, और सामन्त carrickfergus.
माली is a बहुभाषी country.
The languages spoken there reflect ancient उपनिवेश पैटर्न, migrations, और its long history.
ऍथनोलॉग रिश्तो 50 languages.
of ये, फ्रेंच is the आधिकारिक भाषा और bambara is the most widely spoken.
Altogether 13 of the indigenous भाषाएं of माली have the विधिक औकात of नेशनल भाषा.
Sign in French, at a स्मारक in बमाको.
{ { infobox अवकाश
चाइनीज नई Year
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( Vietnam )
Rogers भवन, the मुख्यालय of रोजर्स Communications
रोजर्स संचार inc. is a diversified पब्लिक Canadian communications and media company.
It is विशेषकर in the फ़ील्ड of बेतार संचार, केबल टेलीविज़न, टेलीफोन, और अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant अतिरिक्त telecommunications and mass media assets.
The company is headquartered in the रोजर्स भवन in Toronto, Ontario.
The कम्पनी दावा the विरासत of the रोजर्स वैक्यूम ट्यूब कम्पनी, संस्थापित in 1925 by एडवर्ड Rogers, which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto, which was later acquired by outside interests.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, when रोजर्स ' बेटे, टेड रोजर्स, संस्थापित रोजर्स रेडियो प्रसारण Ltd.
That company acquired chfi कि साल, as खूब as aldred-rogers प्रसारण, a साझेदारी with Joel Aldred which helped launch CFTO in 1961.
Rogers later खरीदा आउट aldred और प्रारंभ the वर्तमान केबल और बेतार परिचालन, known as Rogers Cablesystems Ltd.
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada, which has a similarly extensive portfolio of रेडियो और टेलीविज़न मीडिया एसेट, as खूब as बेतार, टेलीविज़न वितरण, और टेलीफोन सेवाएं, विशेषकर in पूर्वी और सेंट्रल कनाडा ; the दो कंपनियाँ are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions.
However, the company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless सेवाएं, और primarily indirectly साथ शॉ संचार लिये टेलीविज़न service.
The company also competes साथ a क्रमांक of अन्य मीडिया कंपनियाँ in the प्रसारण industry.
The Internet is a वैश्विक प्रणाली of interconnected कंप्यूटर संजाल कि उपयोग the मानक अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल suite ( TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide.
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private, public, academic, business, and government संजाल, of लोकल to वैश्विक पैमाना, कि हैं linked by a व्यापक सरणी of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक, बेतार और ऑप्टिकल नेटवर्किंग technologies.
The Internet carries an extensive range of सूचना संसाधन और सेवाएं, ऐसे as the inter-linked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ of the संसार चौड़ी वेब ( www ) and the infrastructure to support email.
Most traditional communications media including telephone, music, film, and television are being reshaped or redefined by the अंतरजाल, giving जनम to नई सेवाएं ऐसे as आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) और अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल टेलीविज़न ( IPTV ).
समाचारपत्र, किताब और अन्य छपाई प्रकाशन हैं adapting to वेब साईट प्रौद्योगिकी, or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
The Internet has enabled and accelerated new forms of human interactions through तत्काल messaging, अंतरजाल forums, और सोशल नेटवर्किंग.
ऑनलाइन खरीदारी रै boomed दोनो लिये प्रमुख खुदरा आउटलेट and small artisans and traders.
Business-to-business और वित्तीय सेवाएं on the अंतरजाल affect सप्लाई जंजीरों आरपार संपूर्ण industries.
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी in the 1960s to निर्माण मजबूत, fault-tolerant संचार via कंप्यूटर संजाल.
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National Science Foundation in the 1980s, as well as private funding for other वाणिज्यिक backbones, led to विश्वव्यापी भागीदारी in the विकास of नई नेटवर्किंग technologies, और the विलय of many networks.
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संजाल resulted in इसके popularization और incorporation into वस्तुतः every aspect of modern human life.
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of the Internet ; लगभग 100 टाइम्स अधिक लोगों than यहूद using it in 1995, जब it थी ज़्यादातर प्रयुक्त by tech-savvy मध्य and upper class people in the United States and several other countries.
The Internet has no centralized governance in either technological क्रियान्वयन or नीतियों लिये अभिगम और उपयोग ; प्रत्येक constituent संजाल सेट इसके own policies.
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name spaces in the Internet, the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल पता स्पेस और the डोमेन नाम प्रणाली, हैं निर्देशित by a maintainer संगठन, the अंतरजाल Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ).
The technical underpinning and standardization of the core protocols ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the अंतरजाल अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य फ़ोर्स ( ietf ), a non-profit संगठन of loosely संबद्ध अंतरराष्ट्रीय भागीदार कि anyone may संबद्ध साथ by contributing technical expertise.
The 2006 Winter ओलंपिक, officially ज्ञात as the xx ओलम्पिक शीत खेल, थी a शीत multi-sport इवेंट जिससे थी मनाये in टोरीनो, इटली from February 10, 2006, through February 26, 2006.
This marked the second time Italy hosted the ओलम्पिक शीत खेल, the पहला होने the सात ओलम्पिक Winter Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956.
इटली भी hosted the खेल of the xvii Olympiad in Rome in 1960.
Turin was selected as the मेजबान नगर लिये the 2006 games in 1999.
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '', the Italian नाम of the नगर ; the नगर is ज्ञात as `` टोरीनो '' in दोनो अंग्रेज़ी और the लोकल परंपरागत भाषा, pms.
the ओलम्पिक mascots of टोरिनो 2006 यहूद neve ( `` हिम '' in इतालवी ), a female snowball, and Gliz, a male ice cube.
The आधिकारिक motto of the xx ओलम्पिक शीत खेल थी `` जुनून lives here ''.
`` Help ! '' is a song by the बीटल्स कि परोसा as the शीर्षक सोंग लिये दोनो the 1965 फिल्मी और इसके soundtrack album.
It was also released as a single, and was क्रमांक एक लिये तीन सप्ताह in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और the संयुक्त Kingdom.
`` Help ! '' was लिखा primarily by जॉन लेनन, लकिन credited to Lennon–McCartney.
During an interview with Playboy in 1984, पॉल mccartney stated कि the शीर्षक थी `` आउट of छटपटाहट ''.
Poster लिये the 2005 प्रदर्शनी
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), who usually gave his name as S. bing, और थी यूँ प्रायः संदर्भित erroneously as `` सैमुएल bing '' ( सैमुएल ओटो bing, 1850–1905, थी उसके bhai ) थी a जर्मनी आर्ट डीलर जो जिया in पेरिस as an वयस्क, और जो helped introduce जापानी आर्ट और artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century.
Comparison of male and female life प्रत्याशा at जनम लिये देशों और territories as पारिभाषित in the 2011 CIA Factbook, with selected bubbles labelled.
The dotted line corresponds to equal मादा और पुरूष जीवन प्रत्याशा.
The apparent 3D आयतन of the बुलबुले हैं linearly आंशिक to their population.
This is a list of देशों by जीवन प्रत्याशा at birth.
Kennewick is a city in Benton County in the southeastern भाग of the u.S. राज्य of वॉशिंगटन, निकट the hanford नाभिकीय site.
It is the most populous of the three cities collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the अन्य होने pasco और Richland ).
Kennewick is located along the दक्षिणपश्चिम बैंको of the कोलंबिया नदी, विपरीत pasco और बस south of the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers.
The population was 73,917 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
अप्रैल 1, 2012 estimates इससे the वॉशिंगटन राज्य दफ्तर of Financial Management put the city 's population at 75,160.
The निकटतम वाणिज्यिक विमानक्षेत्र is the tri-cities विमानक्षेत्र in pasco, a regional commercial and private airport.
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 area in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये जॉब विकास, जबकि आसपास yakima थी नामित # 1.
The आलेख cites the क्रमांक of वैज्ञानिकों employed by the प्रशांत उत्तरपश्चिम National Laboratory and area farmland for this outlook.
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and its derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and international सामान्यीकृत अनुपात ( inr ) हैं उपायों of the extrinsic pathway of जामन.
This परीक्षण is भी पुकारा `` protime inr '' और `` PT/INR ''.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the माप of warfarin dosage, जिगर क्षति, और विटामिन k status.
PT measures factors I ( फाइब्रिनोजेन ), ii ( prothrombin ), v, सात, और x.
It is used in conjunction with the activated आंशिक thromboplastin समय ( aptt ) जिससे उपायों the intrinsic pathway.
`` I 'm in the Mood लिये प्रेम '' is a लोकप्रिय सोंग.
The music was written by Jimmy McHugh, the गीत by डोरोथी फ़ील्ड.
the सोंग थी प्रकाशित in 1935.
It was introduced by Frances Langford in the फिल्म प्रत्येक रात्रि at आठ released कि साल.
The song was featured in the 1936 Our Gang ( छोटी दुष्टों ) छोटी, the पिंच सिंगर, सुंग by कार्ल `` अल्फाल्फा '' switzer, and in the 1936 film Palm Springs.
It is often known to be switzer 's हस्ताक्षर सोंग.
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a 1952 recording of इस सोंग प्रेरित the सोंग `` मूडी 's मनोदशा लिये प्रेम ``.
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the आधार लिये the track `` मनोदशा लिये प्रेम '' on उसके एल्बम a प्रिंस among चोरों ( 1999 ), with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics.
the सोंग 's शीर्षक प्रेरित the अंग्रेज़ी शीर्षक of वोंग Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love.
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human बर्ताव और दिमागी प्रक्रियाओं, सहित दोनो उनके variability और invariance, अंतर्गत विविध सांस्कृतिक conditions.
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize सांस्कृतिक variance in बर्ताव, भाषा, और अर्थ it seeks to extend and develop psychology.
Since मनोविज्ञान as an अकादमिक अनुशासन थी विकसित largely in उत्तर अमेरिका, कुछ psychologists became चिंतित कि constructs स्वीकृत as सार्वभौमिक यहूद नहीं as निश्चर as previously assumed, especially since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success.
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes, ऐसे as affect, संज्ञान, conceptions of the स्वः, और मुद्दे ऐसे as psychopathology, चिंता, और अवसाद, may कमी बाह्य वैध जब `` exported '' to अन्य सांस्कृतिक contexts, cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural मनोवैज्ञानिक शोध और अर्जी कि गंभीर त्रुटियां in the सैद्धांतिक और methodological bases प्रयुक्त impede बल्कि than सहायता the वैज्ञानिक ढूंढें लिये सार्वभौमिक सिद्धान्त in मनोविज्ञान, cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur, rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry.
In 1972 the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान ( IACCP ) was established.
This branch of psychology has continued to expand as वहीँ रै महरूम an increasing लोकप्रियता of incorporating संस्कृति और विविधता into अध्ययन.
cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान is differentiated इससे सांस्कृतिक psychology.
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds कि इंसान बर्ताव is significantly बहकावे by सांस्कृतिक मतभेद, अर्थ कि मनोवैज्ञानिक phenomena can only be compared with each other across cultures to a very limited extent.
In contrast, cross-cultural psychology शामिल a ढूंढें लिये संभावित universals in बर्ताव और दिमागी प्रक्रियाओं.
Walter J. Lonner, लिखने लिये नजर on psi ची, रै stated कि `` cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान can be विचार of as a प्रकार शोध methodology, rather than an entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, इससे उसके दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम born इस रास्ता ( 2011 ).
It was released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल 15, 2011, चार दिनों ahead of इसके अनुसूचित release.
लिखा और उत्पादित by महिला गागा और redone, `` यहूदा '' is a नृत्य और इलेक्ट्रो house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the पास्ट, और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the ऋणात्मक भाग of उसके जीवन कि वो ca n't एस्केप.
Gaga has further समझाया कि the सोंग थी भी परिचय honoring एक 's भीतरी अंधेरा in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the single was designed by गागा in microsoft शब्द.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally well received by आलोचकों, जो likened the सोंग to `` ख़राब रोमांस `` साथ कुछ noting it चाहिए have महरूम the एल्बम 's सीसे single.
The song रै a समान ध्वनि to गागा 's पिछला redone-produced ट्रैक्स, सहित `` पोकर फेस ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains तीन पृथक hooks और a हाउस -influenced break down.
Gaga explained कि the लाइनों बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे मोचन, regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य of कया a स्त्री should be.
`` Judas '' initially था a दमदार बिक्री खोलने, लकिन थी कम कामयाब commercially in तुलना to गागा 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets, और भी पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the चार्ट in दक्षिण कोरियाई.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by गागा और laurieann गिब्सन और co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट और गागा निभाई मरियम magdalene.
The वीडियो portrays उन्हें as modern day missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying यीशु, और ended साथ गागा as magdalene getting stoned to मौत.
Before its release, the कैथोलिक लीग condemned गागा लिये the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके भूमिका in the video.
however, आलोचकों generally praised the video, not finding any offensive content.
The video was nominated for two पुरस्कार at the 2011 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows, including the ग्राहम नॉर्टन दिखाएँ, शनिवार रात्रि सजीव, शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '', the फ्रेंच x फ़ैक्टर as खूब as on the Ellen DeGeneres Show.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced वीडियो कोडिंग ) is a मानक लिये वीडियो संपीडन, और is फिलहाल एक of the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त स्वरुप लिये the रिकॉर्डिंग, संपीडन, और distribution of high definition video.
The फाइनल drafting कार्य on the पहला संस्करण of the मानक was completed in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -आधारd कोडेक मानक विकसित by the itu-t वीडियो कोडिंग विशेषज्ञ समूह ( vceg ) साथ with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ).
The project साझेदारी प्रयत्न is ज्ञात as the Joint Video Team ( JVT ).
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the iso/iec mpeg-4 avc मानक ( formally, iso/iec 14496-10 – mpeg-4 भाग 10, उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) हैं jointly कायम so that they have identical technical content.
H.264 is perhaps बेहतरीन ज्ञात as होने एक of the कोडेक मानकों लिये blu-ray discs ; सब blu-ray डिस्क players must be able to decode H.264.
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources, such as videos from Vimeo, YouTube, और the itunes स्टोर, वेब तन्त्र ऐसे as the adobe फ्लैश खिलाड़ी और microsoft silverlight, और भी विभिन्न hdtv प्रसारण over स्थलीय ( atsc, isdb-t, DVB-T or DVB-T2 ), cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
Non-binding मध्यस्थता is a प्रकार of मध्यस्थता in जिससे the arbitrator makes a determination of the अधिकारों of the पार्टियों to the विवाद, लकिन इस determination is not binding upon them, and no enforceable arbitration award is issued.
the `` पुरस्कार '' is in प्रभाव an सलाहकार राय of the arbitrator 's दृश्य of the respective merits of the parties cases.
Non-binding मध्यस्थता is प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ कोशिशें to पहुँचें a negotiated settlement.
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding मध्यस्थता is, on the सतह, समान to कि of a मध्यस्थ in a मध्यस्थता.
However, the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the उपनिवेश प्रक्रम और होगा तभी दे a determination of देयता और, if उचित, an indication of the क्वांटम of क्षतिपूर्ति payable.
Subsequent to a non-binding मध्यस्थता, the पार्टियों remain फ़्री to pursue उनके दावा either through the न्यायालयों, or by रास्ता of a binding arbitration, although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome.
The award and reasoning in a non-binding मध्यस्थता is लगभग invariably inadmissible in कोई subsequent कार्रवाई in the न्यायालयों or in another arbitration tribunal.
Non-binding मध्यस्थता is utilised ज़्यादातर in the संयुक्त राज्य and Canada.
It is largely unknown in Europe, although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a उपनिवेश to jointly instruct a महारानी 's counsel लिये an राय on the merits और संभावित क्वांटम of a अर्जी, और तब to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion.
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on अगस्टाइन द्वीप in southwestern कुक इनलेट in the kenai प्रायद्वीप बरो of southcentral तटीय अलास्का, दक्षिणपश्चिम of Anchorage.
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount अगस्टाइन as स्तर of चिंता रंग कोड ग्रीन लिये विमानन और the ज्वालामुखी चेतावनी Level is at Normal.
अगस्टाइन द्वीप रै a जमीन क्षेत्रफल of, जबकि वेस्ट द्वीप, बस off Augustine 's western shores, has.
The island is बना up मुख्यतः of पास्ट फटना जमा.
Scientists have been समर्थ to discern कि पास्ट गुम्बद पतन रै resulted in large avalanches.
A मैप of बेलीज़.
The country of बेलीज़ रै roughly 386 km of तटरेखा, और has many coral reefs, cays, and islands in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of these form the Belize Barrier Reef, the longest in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध stemming लगभग.
The reef and its आइलैंड्स have महरूम a युनेस्को संसार विरासत साईट चूंकि 1996.
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to प्रदेश लकिन सब of जिससे हैं in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of the islands variate in स्पेलिंग between `` cay '' और `` caye '', और भी use the Spanish `` cayo ''.
River islands have नहीं महरूम सूचीबद्ध.
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet writing application for the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc आंकड़ा भंडार डिवाइस to be प्रयुक्त in a manner समान to फ्लॉपी डिस्क.
dla is a पैकेट लिखने प्रौद्योगिकी लिये cd और dvd मीडिया that uses the UDF file system.
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista और नए, हालांकि a पैच exists to फिक्स इस समस्या अंतर्गत खिड़कियाँ विस्टा.
Roxio Burn was introduced on अप्रैल 30, 2009.
As a बदलना लिये dla, it remedies संगतता मुद्दे अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 8.
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13, 1919 – सितंबर 21, 2007 ) थी a well-known अमरीकी टेलीविज़न इंजीलवादी जिनकी गिरजाघर of कल दिखाएँ थी दिखाया on over 600 स्टेशन at the peak of its popularity.
असीमित is a 2011 अमरीकी थ्रिलर फिल्मी निर्देशित by neil बर्गर और अभिनीत Bradley Cooper, Abbie Cornish, and Robert De Niro.
It is based on the 2001 novel The Dark Fields by एलन glynn साथ the पटकथा by लेस्ली डिक्सन.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the उत्तरपश्चिम extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप, साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट, the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर, और the प्रशांत समंदर to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th तनिक populous और the तनिक densely आबादी of the 50 United States.
लगभग हाफ of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों live within the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's economy is वर्चस्व by the आयल, प्राकृतिक गैस, और फ़िशिंग उद्योग ; it रै ये संसाधन in abundance.
Alaska थी खरीदा इससे रूस on कूच 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative परिवर्तन पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, और the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
the नाम `` अलास्का '' ( аляска ) थी already introduced in the रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल, जब it थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as alyeska, the `` ग्रेट जमीन '', an aleut word derived from the same root.
Nelson Mandela महानगर विश्वविद्यालयों ( nmmu ) is a दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी tertiary शिक्षा संस्था साथ इसके प्रमुख प्रशासन in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth.
A merging of three संस्थानों संस्थापित nmmu in जनवरी 2005 लकिन इसके इतिहास तिथियाँ वापस to 1882 साथ the न्यास of बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ Art School.
The विश्वविद्यालयों draws अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्यार्थी इससे all over the world.
There are over 3000 international students and include students from the संयुक्त राज्य, फ़्रांस, चीन, जर्मनी, बेल्जियम, डेनमार्क, फिनलैंड, नीदरलैंड्स, नार्वे, स्वीडन, संयुक्त Kingdom and many other countries.
NMMU is a comprehensive विश्वविद्यालयों offering पेशेवर and vocational training.
the विश्वविद्यालयों रै छह campuses - पाँच in बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ and one in George.
the प्रमुख कैम्पस is the South Campus.
Students at nmmu can पढ़ाई towards diplomas और डिग्री up to और including doctoral level qualifications.
A number of courses include workplace अनुभव as भाग of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an American cosmetics brand founded in Maryland, by the Noxzema रासायनिक कम्पनी ( बाद पुकारा noxell ) और acquired by procter & gamble in 1989.
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing `` कवर लड़कियों '', फ़ैशन मॉडल जो appear on the सामने cover of women 's magazines, to wear its products.
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual ग्राहक सेवा by providing a चौड़ी किस्में of कॉस्मेटिक्स उपलब्धियाँ at उचित कीमतें.
On the Origin of Species, published on 24 November 1859, is a कार्य of वैज्ञानिक साहित्य by चार्ल्स डार्विन जिससे is माना to be the न्यास of evolutionary biology.
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of प्राकृतिक चयन, or the संरक्षण of favoured दौड़ in the संघर्ष for Life.
For the छठे संस्करण of 1872, the छोटी शीर्षक was changed to The Origin of Species.
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory कि populations evolve over the कोर्स of पीढियां through a प्रक्रम of प्राकृतिक चयन.
It presented a body of evidence that the diversity of life arose by आम descent through a branching पैटर्न of एवोल्यूशन.
Darwin included evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s और उसके subsequent निष्कर्षों इससे शोध, पत्राचार, and experimentation.
Various evolutionary विचार था already महरूम प्रस्तावित to बताइये new findings in biology.
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public, but दौरान the पहला हाफ of the 19th सदी the अंग्रेज़ी वैज्ञानिक स्थापना थी closely tied to the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, while science was part of natural theology.
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the मान्यताओं कि प्रजाति यहूद अपरिवर्तनशील भाग of a designed पदानुक्रम और that humans were unique, unrelated to other animals.
the राजनैतिक और theological implications यहूद पडती debated, लकिन transmutation थी not accepted by the scientific mainstream.
The book was written for non-specialist readers and आकर्षित फैली ब्याज upon इसके प्रकाशन.
As Darwin थी an प्रतिष्ठित वैज्ञानिक, उसके निष्कर्षों यहूद लिया seriously और the प्रमाण he प्रस्तुत उत्पन्न वैज्ञानिक, philosophical, and religious discussion.
The बहस over the किताब contributed to the अभियान by t.h. हक्स्ले और उसके fellow members of the X Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism.
Within two decades there was widespread वैज्ञानिक अनुबंध कि एवोल्यूशन, साथ a branching पैटर्न of आम descent, था occurred, लकिन वैज्ञानिकों यहूद slow to दे natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate.
During the `` ग्रहण of डार्विनवाद `` इससे the 1880s to the 1930s, विभिन्न other mechanisms of evolution were given more credit.
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s, Darwin 's concept of evolutionary adaptation through natural selection became सेंट्रल to आधुनिक विकासवादी सिद्धान्त, अभी the unifying अवधारणा of the जीवन sciences.
चार्ल्स डिलन `` केसी '' स्टेंगल ( ; जुलाई 30, 1890 – सितंबर 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` the बूढ़ा perfessor '', थी an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager.
He थी निर्वाचित to the बेसबॉल Hall of Fame in.
Stengel was born in Kansas City, मिसौरी, और originally nicknamed `` डच '', a आम उपनाम at कि time for Americans of German ancestry.
After उसके प्रमुख लीग करियर began, he acquired the उपनाम `` केसी '', जिससे originally आए इससे the आद्याक्षर of उसके गृहनगर ( `` K. C. '' ), जिससे विकसित into `` केसी '', influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat.
In the 1950s, sportswriters उतावले उसे साथ yet another उपनाम, `` the बूढ़ा प्राध्यापक '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball -related.
हालांकि उसके बेसबॉल करियर spanned a क्रमांक of टीमों और cities, he is primarily associated with clubs in New York City.
Between playing and managing, he is the तभी man to have worn चार of नई यॉर्क 's प्रमुख लीग क्लब ' uniforms.
He was the पहला of चार मेन ( through the ऋतु ) to मैनेज दोनो the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ और नई यॉर्क मेट्स ; योगी Berra, Dallas Green, and Joe Torre are the others.
Like Torre, he भी प्रबंधित the Braves and the Dodgers.
He ended his baseball career as the beloved manager for the then विस्तार नई यॉर्क मेट्स, जिससे जीती over the दिल of नई यॉर्क partly due to the अद्वितीय अक्षर of उनके दिग्गज नेता.
June ( ) is the sixth month of the साल in the जूलियन और gregorian पंचांग और एक of the four months with a length of 30 days.
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name in his कविता concerning the महीने हकदार the Fasti.
The पहला is कि the माह is नामित बाद the रोमन देवी juno, बीवी of बृहस्पति और समतुल्य to the Greek goddess Hera ; the second is that the name comes from the Latin word iuniores, meaning `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the June is the month with the longest daylight घंटों of the साल in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और the shortest daylight घंटों of the साल in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध.
June in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is the मौसमी समतुल्य to दिसम्बर in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध and vice versa.
in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध, the शुरूआत of the meteorological summer is 1 June.
In the Southern गोलार्ध, the शुरूआत of the meteorological शीत is 1 June.
At the start of June, the sun rises in the नक्षत्र of वृष ; at the समाप्त of जून, the सूर्य उदय in the constellation of Gemini.
however, due to the precession of the equinoxes, जून begins साथ the सूर्य in the astrological चिह्न of Gemini, and ends with the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer.
June is known for the large क्रमांक of विवाह कि occur over the कोर्स of the माह.
According to one etymology, जून is नामित बाद Juno ( Hera ).
Juno was the देवी of विवाह और a शादीशुदा युगल 's household, so some consider it good luck to be married in this month.
According to another etymology provided by the रोमन कवि ओविड, जून is नामित लिये the iuniores, लैटिन लिये `` यंग लोगों '' ( fasti vi.88 ) और कि the month of May is named for the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
In Iceland, लोकगीत says कि if तुम bathe नग्न in the morning ओस on the morning of जून 24, you are supposed to keep aging at bay for longer.
a संविधान is a नियत of आधारभूत सिद्धान्त or स्थापित precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed.
These rules साथ मेक up, i.e. constitute, कया the entity is.
When these principles are लिखा bas into a सिंगल दस्तावेज़ or नियत of विधिक दस्तावेज़, those दस्तावेज़ may be कहा to embody a लिखा संविधान ; if वे हैं लिखा down in a single comprehensive document, it is said to embody a codified constitution.
Constitutions concern different levels of संगठन, इससे sovereign राज्य to कंपनियाँ और unincorporated एसोसिएशन.
A treaty which establishes an international organization is भी इसके संविधान, in कि it होता define कैसा कि संगठन is गठित.
Within states, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the सिद्धान्त upon जिससे the राज्य is आधारित, the कार्यविधि in जिससे कानून हैं बना और by जिसको.
Some constitutions, especially codified constitutions, भी अधिनियम as limiters of राज्य शक्ति, by establishing लाइनों जिससे a राज्य 's शासकों can नहीं cross, such as fundamental rights.
George Washington at Constitutional सम्मेलन of 1787, हस्ताक्षर of u.S. संविधान.
The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution of any sovereign देश in the संसार, containing 448 आलेख, 12 schedules और 100 amendments, साथ 117,369 शब्द in इसके अंग्रेज़ी भाषा संस्करण, जबकि the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is the shortest written constitution, at 7 articles and 27 amendments.
Ron Diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training सत्र in the स्पेस पर्यावरण सिमुलेशन प्रयोगशाला at नासा 's जॉनसन स्पेस बीच.
Engineering management is a specialized form of प्रबन्धन कि is चिंतित साथ the अनुप्रयोग of अभियान्त्रिकी सिद्धान्त to कारोबार practice.
Engineering management is a career that brings साथ the technological problem-solving savvy of अभियान्त्रिकी और the organizational, प्रशासनिक, और नियोजन abilities of प्रबन्धन in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion.
Example areas of अभियान्त्रिकी हैं उत्पाद विकास, निर्माण, निर्माण, डिज़ाइन अभियान्त्रिकी, औद्योगिक अभियान्त्रिकी, प्रौद्योगिकी, उत्पादन, or कोई other field that employs personnel who perform an engineering function.
Successful engineering managers typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण और अनुभव in कारोबार और अभियान्त्रिकी.
Technically inept managers tend to be वंचित of support by उनके तकनीकी टोली, और non-commercial प्रबंधक tend to कमी commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy.
Largely, engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by non-entrepreneurial thinking, यूँ आवश्यकता the जरुरी लोगों कौशल to कोच, mentor और motivate तकनीकी पेशेवर.
अभियान्त्रिकी पेशेवर joining निर्माण कंपनियाँ sometimes become engineering managers by default after a period of time.
They are required to learn how to manage एकबार वे हैं on the जॉब, हालांकि इस is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities.
In an insurance policy, the deductible is the राशि of खर्च कि जरूर be सशुल्क आउट of जेब पहले an insurer will pay any expenses.
In general usage, the term deductible may be प्रयुक्त to describe एक of अनेक प्रकार of clauses ( देखिए नीचे ) कि हैं प्रयुक्त by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments.
Deductibles are typically used to deter the विशाल क्रमांक of नगण्य दावा कि a उपभोक्ता can be reasonably अपेक्षित to भालू the cost of.
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs, the insurance firm expects to अदा आउट थोड़ा छोटी amounts much कम अक्सर, रूष्ट much उच्चतर बचत.
As a result, बीमे प्रीमियम हैं typically सस्ता जब they involve higher deductibles.
Deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an बीमे नीति कि dictate कैसा much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder.
They are normally quoted as a फिक्स्ड मात्रा और is a भाग of सबसे नीतियों covering नुकसान to the नीति holder.
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable खर्च कि exceed इस राशि ( विषय to the अधिकतम sum claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the नीति, the deductible may लागू प्रति covered घटना, or प्रति year.
For policies जहाँ incidences हैं नहीं आसान to delimit ( लिये उदाहरण स्वास्थ्य बीमे ), the deductible is typically applied per year.
Several deductibles can be नियत by the insurer आधारित on the cause of the claim.
For example, a single housing बीमे नीति may contain अनेक deductible amounts लिये घाटा or क्षति arising इससे चोरी, आग, प्राकृतिक calamities, evacuation etc.
There are also deductible reimbursement कार्यक्रम कि reimburse a deductible in the इवेंट of an स्वचालित, घर, boat/yacht or health insurance claim.
An invoice or bill is a commercial दस्तावेज़ जारी by a विक्रेता to a खरीदार, indicating the उत्पाद, quantities, और agreed prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer.
An invoice indicates the बिक्री लेनदेन तभी.
भुगतान शर्तें हैं स्वतंत्र of the invoice and are negotiated by the buyer and the seller.
भुगतान शर्तें हैं प्रायः शामिल on the invoice.
The buyer could have already सशुल्क लिये the उत्पाद or सेवाएं listed on the invoice.
Buyer can also have a अधिकतम क्रमांक of दिनों in जिससे to अदा लिये ये goods और is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date.
In the rental उद्योग, an चालान जरूर शामिल a विशिष्ट सन्दर्भ to the अवधि of the समय होने billed, so in जोड to मात्रा, दाम और छूट the invoicing amount is also based on duration.
generally प्रत्येक लकीर of a rental चालान होगा refer to the वास्तविक hours, days, weeks, months, etc., being billed.
From the पाइंट of दृश्य of a विक्रेता, an चालान is a बिक्री invoice.
इससे the पाइंट of दृश्य of a buyer, an invoice is a purchase invoice.
The दस्तावेज़ indicates the खरीदार और विक्रेता, लकिन the पद चालान indicates money is owed or owing.
In English, the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the पद चालान is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to clarify इसके अर्थ, ऐसे as `` we भेजा उन्हें an चालान '' ( वे owe us धन ) or `` we प्राप्त an चालान from them '' ( we owe them money ).
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or right प्रिंसिपल bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
It is wider, shorter, और अधिक लंबवत in दिशा than the left.
It is about 2.5 cm long, और enters the सही फेफड़ों nearly विपरीत the पांचवां thoracic vertebra.
The azygos vein arches over it इससे पीछे ; और the सही pulmonary artery lies at first below and then in front of it.
About 2 cm from its commencement it देता बंद a शाखा to the अपर पालि of the सही lung.
This is termed the eparterial शाखा of the bronchus, क्युकी it arises ऊपर the सही pulmonary artery.
The bronchus now passes below the धमनी, और is ज्ञात as the hyparterial शाखा ; it divides into दो branches for the middle and lower lobes.
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the trachea, it will most संभावित डालें the सही प्रमुख bronchus बजाय of the बाएँ, due to the straighter संरेखण of the सही bronchus to the trachea.
Squash is a racquet sport निभाई by दो ( singles ) or चार खिलाड़ी ( युगल ) in a four-walled अदालत साथ a छोटी, hollow rubber ball.
The खिलाड़ी जरूर वैकल्पिक in striking the बॉल साथ उनके racquet और hit the बॉल onto the playable surfaces of the four walls of the court.
The game was formerly called squash racquets, a सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' नरम बॉल प्रयुक्त in the खेल ( compared साथ the fatter ball used in its parent game racquets or rackets ).
स्क्वैश is पहचाना by the ioc और समर्थक हैं lobbying लिये its incorporation in a future Olympic program.
In 2003, फोर्ब्स रेटेड स्क्वैश as the क्रमांक एक healthiest sport to play.
Residual oil is आयल मिला in कम एकाग्रता naturally or in exhausted oil fields.
Often mixed with water, it can नहीं be बरामद by conventional तकनीकों.
However, it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced आयल रिकवरी ( co2 eor ) जिससे involves injecting कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड into the खूब reducing श्यानता और बढ़ाना प्रवाह of the oil.
The technique is नहीं नई लकिन रै नहीं महरूम प्रयुक्त extensively on अवशेष आयल zones, low-grade जमा of पेट्रोलियम ऐसे as the 38 वर्गाकार miles in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr.
The technique is limited by उपलब्धता of कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड.
It does not result in sequestration of the carbon डाइऑक्साइड लकिन the गैस is recycled as much as possible.
United राज्य reserves of अवशेष आयल हैं अनुमानित to be 100 billion barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the आग, by जॉन R. chapin, originally मुद्रित in हार्पर 's साप्ताहिक ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge.
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration कि burned इससे संडे, अक्तूबर 8, to जल्दी मंगलवार, अक्तूबर 10, 1871, हत्या सैंकड़ों और destroying about in Chicago, Illinois.
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century, the rebuilding that began helped develop Chicago as एक of the सबसे populous और economically महत्वपूर्ण American cities.
Henry VIII ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी किंग of इंग्लैण्ड from 21 April 1509 until his death.
He was lord, और बाद किंग, of आयरलैंड, as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र अर्जी by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the second monarch of the Tudor dynasty, succeeding उसके पिता, हेनरी सात.
Besides his six marriages, हेनरी viii is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका in the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles साथ रोम led to the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार, the विच्छेद of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological teachings, भी बाद उसके excommunication इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
Henry oversaw the विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the कानून in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, maximillian i, और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल, well-equipped फौज, लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable वित्तीय cost.
Maximillian, for his part, used the English invasion to उसके अपना ends, और इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to शिकस्त the फ्रेंच.
This foray would prove the प्रारंभ of an obsession लिये हेनरी, जो invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, लकिन again the पावन रोमन सम्राट, चार्ल्स v, समर्थित हेनरी तभी as long as he needed to और इंग्लैण्ड, strained by the विशाल लागत of the युद्ध, ransomed the नगर back for peace.
His contemporaries माना हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक, शिक्षित और संपन्नता किंग, और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling साथ निरपेक्ष शक्ति, he भी सगाई खुद as an author and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly क्युकी he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the गुलाब – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became रुग्ण मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered, contributing to उसके मौत in 1547.
He is अक्सर characterised in उसके बाद जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela उत्पादित by the संयुक्त राज्य टेलीविज़न संजाल telemundo, in संयोजन साथ the एंटेना 3 network and RTI Producciones.
Based on a novel of the same name by Spanish author Arturo pérez-reverte, the नाटक depicts the वृद्धि of टेरेसा मेंडोज़ा ( केट डेल कैस्टिलो ), a यंग स्त्री इससे मैक्सिको जो becomes the सबसे शक्तिशाली ड्रग trafficker in southern Spain.
Patricio Wills, the अध्यक्ष of telemundo टेलीविज़न studios, थी the executive producer.
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for Novela of the Year, पसंदीदा सीसे अभिनेत्री, और बेहतरीन ख़राब लक वीडियो, it जीती no पुरस्कार.
With a $ 10 million budget, La Reina del सूर थी the सबसे महंगी telenovela कभी उत्पादित by Telemundo.
The program 's premiere on फ़रवरी 28, 2011, थी the संजाल 's उच्चतम रेटेड premiere for a telenovela to date.
The कार्यक्रम अक्सर वर्चस्व इसके समय स्लॉट, भी over अंग्रेज़ी भाषा प्रोग्रामिंग on other major U.S. networks.
La Reina del Sur समाप्त इसके 63 एपीसोड चलाएं on telemundo और इसके 13 एपीसोड चलाएं on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in telemundo 's 19-year इतिहास ( 4.2 लाख दर्शक ), और ताल सब of the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा u.S. टेलीविज़न संजाल to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic.
The program 's success spurred Telemundo to लॉन्च इसके पहला अभियान to लाभ the श्रेणी an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन.
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on may 31, 2011, और चिह्नित the telemundo डेब्यू of विख्यात latina टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व Cristina Saralegui.
la reina डेल सूर is ब्रॉडकास्ट in अनेक अन्य बाज़ार, सहित सर्बिया, कोलंबिया, चिली, साइप्रस, निकारागुआ, कोस्टा रिका, Mexico, Albania, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Romania, ( among others ).
An example of रैक आरोहित सर्वर
A web hosting service is a type of Internet होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals और संगठन to मेक उनके जालस्थल accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a सर्वर स्वामित्व or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट, as खूब as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा बीच, पुकारा colocation, भी ज्ञात as आवास in लैटिन अमेरिका or France.
the पैमाना of वेब होस्टिंग सेवाएं varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting, where files can be uploaded via File ट्रांसफ़र प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or a वेब इंटरफ़ेस.
The files are usually वितरित to the वेब `` as is '' or साथ minimal प्रसंस्करण.
Many अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) प्रस्ताव इस सेवा free to subscribers.
Individuals and संगठन may भी obtain वेब पेज होस्टिंग from alternative service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically फ़्री, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site होस्टिंग प्रायः रै a उच्चतर व्यय depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient लिये निजी वेब pages.
A complex site calls for a more व्यापक पैकेज कि provides डेटाबेस support और अनुप्रयोग विकास प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts लिये अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums और सामग्री प्रबन्धन.
Also, सुरक्षित sockets परत ( एसएसएल ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट, as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल and service applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger कंपनियाँ कि outsource संजाल अवसंरचना.
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden फ़ुटबॉल पहले 1993 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल वीडियो खेल श्रेणी विकसित by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक Arts Tiburon for EA Sports.
The game series is named after Pro फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of famer जॉन मैडेन, a well-known पूर्व सुपर कटोरी –winning कोच of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator.
The श्रेणी is the बेहतरीन selling ea खेल series.
The खेल have consistently महरूम a बेहतरीन विक्रेता, और रै even spawned TV shows where players compete.
Among the खेल 's यथार्थवादी सुविधाएँ शामिल sophisticated playbooks और खिलाड़ी आंकडे, और आवाज़ commentary that allows players to hear the game as if it were a real TV broadcast.
The Madden एनएफएल श्रेणी रै महरूम nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd Franchise.
The series was originally conceived by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला संस्थापक ट्रिप हॉकिन्स, जो तब approached मैडेन in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise.
Due to मैडेन 's insistence कि the खेल be as यथार्थवादी as संभावित, the पहला संस्करण of John Madden Football was not released until 1988.
The second version of the game was released in 1990, साथ सालाना संस्करण चूंकि तब.
The series ' नाम थी बदला to मैडेन एनएफएल in 1993 बाद ea acquired the अधिकारों to use NFL teams and players.
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009, he continues to lend उसके नाम और provide expertise for the game.
सिंडी ली मिलर sheehan ( born जुलाई 10, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी antiwar activist जिनकी बेटे, u.S. फौज विशेषज्ञ केसी Sheehan, was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War.
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift शिविर बाहर अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश 's टेक्सास ranch —a स्टैंड कि खींचा दोनो passionate support और एंग्री आलोचना.
Sheehan भागा unsuccessfully लिये कॉंग्रेस in 2008.
She is a vocal आलोचक of अध्यक्ष बराक Obama 's foreign policy.
Her memoir, Peace Mom : A Mother 's यात्रा through heartache to सक्रियता, थी published in 2006.
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the सलाम and Freedom Party.
Wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped इससे हैती 's अध्यक्षीय बैलट – समय, अगस्त 21, 2010.
`` Before he घोषित on अगस्त 5 कि he थी कार्यशील लिये अध्यक्ष of हैती, wyclef Jean was still listing his age as only 37 years old.
But after declaring खुद a अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी, the haitian-american-irish hip-hop स्टार भी decided to आइये साफ और confirm कि he थी वाकई 40. '' is a three-time ग्रैमी Award -winning Haitian-American rapper, singer-songwriter, musician, record producer, and politician.
At age nine, Jean moved to the संयुक्त राज्य साथ उसके परिवार और रै खर्च much of उसके जीवन in the country.
He पहला प्राप्त कीर्ति as a सदस्य of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees.
On August 5, 2010, Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 haitian अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, हालांकि the चुनावी आयोग subsequently शासित उसे अयोग्य to स्टैंड as he था नहीं मिले the आवश्यकता to have been resident in Haiti for five years.
Wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti election सत्ताधारी – बीबीसी न्यूज, अगस्त 22, 2010.
Haiti 's electoral commission कहा कि mr जां थी अयोग्य to स्टैंड as the haitian संविधान requires candidates to have lived in the country for five years prior to an election.
The 40-year-old सिंगर जीवनदान in the US.
Jean 's efforts at भूकंप राहत, अत्यधिक publicized in 2010 throughout हैती और the संयुक्त राज्य, यहूद channeled through उसके charitable संगठन, Yéle Haiti.
The charity, which performed a किस्में of charitable works in हैती between 2005 और 2010, effectively closed in 2012.
In law, a set-off is a statutory रक्षा to the पूरे or to a portion of a plaintiff 's claim.
It had no अस्तित्व अंतर्गत the अंग्रेज़ी आम विधि, होने निर्मित by 2 जियो. ii c. 22 लिये the राहत of insolvent कर्जदार, हालांकि set-off was recognized in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded तभी in आदर of परस्पर debts of a definite अक्षर, और किया नहीं लागू to मामले in जिससे क्षतिपूर्ति were claimed, nor to equitable claims or demands.
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX. r. 3 ) a defendant in an action may set बंद or नियत up कोई सही or अर्जी by रास्ता of counterclaim विरूद्ध the दावा of a अभियोक्ता, और ऐसे set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action.
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair हालात whereby a व्यक्ति ( `` पार्टी a '' ) जो owed धन to another ( `` पार्टी b '' ) could be भेजा to कर्जदार थाना, despite the fact that Party B also owed money to Party A.
The law यूँ allows दोनो पार्टियों to टालना भुगतान जबतक उनके संबंधित claims have been heard in court.
Upon judgment, both claims are बुझे और replaced by a सिंगल जाल योग owing ( e.g. if पार्टी a owes पार्टी b 100 और पार्टी b owes पार्टी a 105, the दो रकम हैं नियत बंद and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ).
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual अनुबंध so कि, जहाँ a पार्टी मूलभूत, the परस्पर amounts owing हैं automatically set off and extinguished.
In certain jurisdictions ( including the uk ), set-off takes प्लेस automatically upon the insolvency of a company.
This means that, लिये प्रत्येक पार्टी जिससे is दोनो a creditor और debtor of the insolvent कम्पनी, परस्पर debts हैं set-off विरूद्ध प्रत्येक अन्य, और तब either the दिवालिया 's creditor can अर्जी the संतुलन in the दिवालियापन or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid, depending on which side owed the most.
This has been criticized as an undeclared सुरक्षा ब्याज कि violates the principle of pari passu.
The alternative, where a creditor रै to अदा सब इसके debts, लकिन प्राप्त तभी a सीमित portion of the leftover moneys that other unsecured creditors get, poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
The right to set off is particularly important when reporting a बैंको 's विकिरणों to नियामक अधिकारियों.
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a large sum to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed, because there is a risk that the borrower might डिफॉल्ट thereby अग्रणी to the घाटा of the बैंको 's or इसके जमाकर्ताओं ' धन ) is यूँ replaced ( जहाँ the बैंको रै लिया सुरक्षा over साझा or प्रतिभूति of the borrower ) साथ an एक्सपोज़र of the money lent minus the value of the security taken.
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born February 11, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, फिल्मी निदेशक, और निर्माता.
Aniston gained विश्वव्यापी मान्यता in the 1990s लिये portraying रेचल ग्रीन on the टेलीविज़न sitcom मित्रों, a भूमिका जिससे अर्जित उसके an Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award, and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
एनिस्टन रै भी enjoyed a कामयाब हॉलीवुड film career.
She gained critical acclaim for her प्रदर्शन in the स्वतंत्र films वो 's the एक ( 1996 ), दफ्तर स्पेस ( 1999 ), the शुभ लड़की ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ).
She रै था उसके महानतम वाणिज्यिक सफलताओं साथ the films ब्रूस सर्वशक्तिमान ( 2003 ), the break-up ( 2006 ), Marley & Me ( 2008 ), Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ).
Aniston received a star on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति on फ़रवरी 22, 2012.
a श्वेत बंगाल बाघ at the Houston Aquarium
( वीडियो )
A White बाघ at tobu चिड़ियाघर, in saitama, Japan.
The white tiger is a recessive म्यूटेंट of the बंगाल बाघ, जिससे थी reported in the जंगली इससे time to time in Assam, Bengal, Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa.
Conventional पीसीआई ( पीसीआई is an initialism formed इससे परिधीय घटक इंटरकनेक्ट, भाग of the पीसीआई लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः shortened to बस पीसीआई ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions मिला on a प्रोसेसर बस, लकिन in a मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि is स्वतंत्र of कोई particular प्रोसेसर.
Devices connected to the बस appear to the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the प्रोसेसर बस, और हैं आबंटित addresses in the processor 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the रूप of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, पुकारा a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles, जहाँ it विस्थापित the संयोजन of isa प्लस एक vesa Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently महरूम अपनाया लिये अन्य computer types.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express, but, सबसे motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट, जिससे हैं sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification कवर the शारीरिक आकार of the बस ( सहित the आकार और अंतरण of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards, ध्वनि ताश, modems, अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or सीरियल, tv ट्यूनर ताश and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA और vesa ताश, जबतक growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the पसन्दीदा इंटरफ़ेस लिये वीडियो ताश became अगप, और तब पीसीआई Express.
PCI वीडियो ताश remain उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग साथ बूढ़ा pcs बगैर अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस slots.
Many devices previously provided on पीसीआई विस्तार ताश हैं अभी commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions.
Caffeine is a कड़वा, श्वेत crystalline xanthine एल्कलॉएड कि acts as a stimulant drug.
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds, leaves, and fruit of कुछ पौधे, जहाँ it अधिनियमों as a प्राकृतिक कीटनाशक कि paralyzes और मारता निश्चित कीट feeding on the पौधे, as खूब as बढ़ाना the reward memory of pollinators.
It is most commonly consumed by humans in infusions extracted from the seed of the coffee संयंत्र और the पत्ते of the चाय बुश, as खूब as इससे विभिन्न भोजन और पेय containing उत्पाद निकला from the kola nut.
Other स्त्रोत शामिल yerba maté, guarana जामुन, guayusa, and the yaupon holly.
In humans, caffeine acts as a central nervous प्रणाली उत्तेजक, temporarily warding बंद drowsiness और restoring alertness.
It is the world 's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is विधिक और unregulated in nearly सब भाग of the संसार.
Beverages containing caffeine, ऐसे as कॉफी, चाय, नरम पेय, और उर्जा पेय, आनंद great popularity.
In North अमेरिका, 90 % of वयस्कों consume कैफीन रोज़.
Part of the reason caffeine is classified by the Food and Drug प्रशासन as ग्रा ( generally पहचाना as सुरक्षित ) is कि विषाक्त doses ( over 10 गामा ) हैं much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ).
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks, भी जब carried on लिये सालो – वहीँ may be a modest सुरक्षात्मक प्रभाव विरूद्ध कुछ रोगों, सहित parkinsons Disease, and certain types of cancer.
Caffeine can have दोनो धनात्मक और ऋणात्मक प्रभाव on चिंता disorders.
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine, especially दौरान the संध्या घंटों, लकिन अन्य दिखाएँ छोटी disturbance और the प्रभाव of कैफीन on sleep is highly variable.
Evidence of a रिस्क to गर्भावस्था is equivocal, लकिन कुछ अधिकारियों have concluded कि दूरदर्शी सलाह is लिये गर्भवती महिलाओं to limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less.
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists ( ACOG ) concluded in 2010 कि कैफीन खपत is सुरक्षित up to 200 mg प्रति दिन in गर्भवती women.
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people who are not used to it, but regular उपयोक्ता develop a सहिष्णुता to इस प्रभाव, और अध्ययन have generally विफल to support the आम ख़्याल कि ordinary खपत contributes significantly to dehydration.
साथ भारी उपयोग, सहिष्णुता develops rapidly to autonomic प्रभाव ऐसे as elevated दिल रेट और मांसपेशी twitching, but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine.
The degree to which caffeine can produce clinically significant शारीरिक और दिमागी dependence remains a विषय of विवाद in the चिकित्सा साहित्य.
a kicktail क्रूजर
A longboard is a longer रूपांतर of a skateboard.
It is commonly used for cruising, downhill रेसिंग, slalom रेसिंग, स्लाइडिंग, and/or हस्तांतरण.
Sources outside of Wikipedia दे differing अनुमानs:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est. ) and the distribution of धर्मों as ईसाई 100 % ( of जिससे रोमन कैथोलिक 18.85 %, प्रोटोस्टेंट 8.15 %, परंपरागत 4.96 %, anglican 1.26 % ), मुस्लिम 22.74 %, हिन्दू 13.8 %, बौद्ध 6.77 %, सिखों 0.35 %, यहूदी 0.22 %, baha'i 0.11 %, अन्य धर्मों 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The Coast Ranges of कैलिफ़ोर्निया स्पैन इससे हम्बोल्ट काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया दक्षिण to सांता Barbara County.
The other three तटीय कैलिफ़ोर्निया पहाड़ सीमाएँ हैं the अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ, Peninsular Ranges and the Klamath Mountains.
Physiographically, they are a section of the larger Pacific Border प्रांत, जिससे in फेरे हैं भाग of the larger प्रशांत पहाड़ प्रणाली physiographic division.
युनेस्को रै शामिल the `` कैलिफ़ोर्निया coast सीमाएँ जीवमंडल आरक्षित `` in इसके man और the जीवमंडल Programme of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983.
वाहनों in उपयोग प्रति देश इससे 2001 to 2007.
It shows the significant विकास in bric.
World map of यात्री गाड़ियाँ प्रति 1000 लोगों
An automobile, autocar, मोटर car or car is a wheeled मोटर गाडी प्रयुक्त लिये transporting यात्री, जिससे also carries its own engine or motor.
Most definitions of the term specify that automobiles are designed to चलाएं primarily on सड़कें, to have seating लिये एक to आठ लोगों, to typically have चार पहियों, और to be constructed प्रधानतया for the transport of people rather than goods.
The पद motorcar रै भी महरूम प्रयुक्त in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of electrified रेल प्रणालियों to denote a car which functions as a small locomotive but also provides space for passengers and baggage.
These locomotive cars were often used on suburban routes by both interurban और intercity रेलरोड प्रणालियों.
It was estimated in 2010 that the क्रमांक of ऑटोमोबाइल था risen to over 1 अरब वाहनों, up इससे the 500 लाख of 1986.
The संख्याएँ हैं increasing rapidly, especially in China and India.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), प्रायः referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर jfk, थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1961 जबतक उसके मौत in 1963.
After military सेवा as कमांडर of the मोटर torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण प्रशांत, कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the u.S. सीनेट इससे 1953 जबतक 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President and रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड निक्सन in the 1960 u.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have महरूम निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ), और the पहला person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the तभी non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष, और is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have जीती a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency शामिल the खाड़ी of सूअर आक्रमण, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट, the भवन of the बर्लिन वॉल, the स्पेस रेस, the african-american Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers, खास आपरेशन शक्तियां, और helicopters in an प्रयत्न to कोर the स्प्रेड of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट कार्यक्रम जिससे थी implemented by the दक्षिण वियतनामी सरकारी.
It involved certain forced relocation, गाँव internment, और पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी from the northern and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy थी assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee घनघोर ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज साथ the अपराधों, लकिन he थी शॉट और मारे by Jack Ruby two days later, before a trial could take place.
The एफबीआई और the वारेन आयोग officially concluded कि Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded कि those investigations यहूद flawed और कि कैनेडी थी संभवतः assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, एबीसी न्यूज in उनके छानबीन, the कैनेडी हत्या : परे षड्यंत्र, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of रक्षा tfx सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional छानबीन कि lasted इससे 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s सूचना concerning कैनेडी 's private life has come to light.
Details of कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं in जिससे he struggled have become बेहतर known, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret from the सामान्य पब्लिक, रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks highly in पब्लिक राय दरजा of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों.
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( top ) and ग्राफिक annunciator ( नीचे ) लिये potomac हॉल, at जेम्स मैडिसन विश्वविद्यालयों.
A सतर्क vm-1 आग सचेतक कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu ) / autonomous कंट्रोल ईकाई ( acu ) साथ एकीकृत voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system.
Manufactured by एडवर्ड्स, a utc f & s कम्पनी
A Fire Alarm Control Panel ( FACP ), or आग सचेतक कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu ), is the controlling घटक of a Fire Alarm System.
The panel receives information from environmental सेंसर designed to detect परिवर्तन संबद्ध साथ आग, मॉनीटर उनके operational अखंडता और provides लिये automatic control of equipment, and transmission of information necessary to prepare the facility for fire based on a predetermined sequence.
The panel may also supply electrical उर्जा to operate कोई संबद्ध सेंसर, कंट्रोल, ट्रांसमीटर, or relay.
There are four basic types of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, और मल्टीप्लेक्स प्रणालियों.
This is a list of the पहला म्यूज़िक वीडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on एमटीवी 's first day, August 1, 1981.
MTV 's first day on the air was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and अपलोड onto youtube in 2010 ( हालांकि तभी the पहला चार घंटों यहूद प्रामाणिक ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ).
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as Katunayake International विमानक्षेत्र और कोलोन अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र ) is एक of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट सेवारत the नगर of कोलोन, the अन्य is ratmalana International Airport.
Mattala Rajapaksa अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र स्तिथ in दक्षिणी नगर of hambantota is the अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय airport in Sri Lanka.
भण्डारनायके अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is स्तिथ in katunayake, 22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo.
It is administered by Airport and विमानन सेवाएं ( श्री लंका ) ltd.
It is the hub of SriLankan एयरलाइंस, the नेशनल वाहक of श्री लंका, और mihin लंका, the budget airline of Sri Lanka.
Black Swan is a 2010 American मनोवैज्ञानिक थ्रिलर और हॉरर फिल्मी निर्देशित by डैरेन aronofsky और अभिनीत नताली Portman, Vincent Cassel, and Mila Kunis.
The plot revolves around a उत्पादन of tchaikovsky 's swan झील बैले by a prestigious नई यॉर्क नगर company.
The production requires a नर्तकी to खेल the निर्दोष और नाजुक श्वेत swan, लिये जिससे the वचनबद्ध नर्तकी नीना ( पोर्टमैन ) is a पूर्ण अनुरूप, as खूब as the dark and sensual Black Swan, which are qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ).
Nina is overwhelmed by a अहसास of immense दबाव जब वो पाता herself स्पर्धा लिये the भाग, causing उसके to खोना उसके tenuous पकड़ on reality and descend into a living nightmare.
Aronofsky conceived the आधार by connecting उसके viewings of a उत्पादन of swan झील साथ an unrealized पटकथा परिचय understudies and the notion of being haunted by a double, similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
Aronofsky cites Fyodor दोस्तोयेव्स्की 's `` the दोगुना `` as another inspiration for the film.
The director also considered Black Swan a साथी टुकड़ा to उसके 2008 फिल्मी the पहलवान, साथ दोनो films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art.
He and Portman first discussed the प्रोजेक्ट in 2000, और बाद a ब्रैड अनुलग्नक to सार्वभौमिक studios, ब्लैक swan थी produced in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures.
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for several months prior to फिल्मांकन, और notable आंकड़े इससे the बैले संसार helped साथ फिल्मी उत्पादन to आकार the ballet presentation.
The film premiered as the खोलने फिल्मी लिये the 67th वेनिस अंतरराष्ट्रीय Film Festival on September 1, 2010.
It had a limited release in the United States starting दिसम्बर 3, 2010 और खोली देशभर on दिसम्बर 17.
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release, particularly for Portman 's प्रदर्शन और aronofsky 's दिशा, और थी a significant बक्सा दफ्तर कामयाबी, grossing $ 329 लाख worldwide.
The film received five Academy Award nominations और पोर्टमैन जीती the बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार लिये the फिल्मी, as खूब as अनेक अन्य बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार in अनेक guilds और त्यौहार, जबकि aronofsky was nominated for Best Director.
In जोड, the फिल्मी itself प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये Best Picture.
The world’s पहला ice-calorimeter, प्रयुक्त in the शीत of 1782-83, by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये और pierre-simon लाप्लास, to determine the ऊष्मा शामिल in various chemical changes ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat.
These experiments mark the न्यास of thermochemistry.
A ऊष्मामापी ( इससे लैटिन calor, अर्थ ऊष्मा ) is an ऑब्जेक्ट प्रयुक्त लिये कैलोरीमिति, or the प्रक्रम of measuring the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity.
Differential scanning calorimeters, समतापी microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters और त्वरित रेट calorimeters हैं among the सबसे common types.
A simple calorimeter just consists of a थर्मामीटर संलग्न to a मेटल संग्राहक full of water suspended above a combustion chamber.
To find the enthalpy change per mole of a substance A in a reaction between दो substances a और b, the substances हैं added to a ऊष्मामापी और the आरंभिक और फाइनल temperatures ( पहले the प्रतिक्रिया started and after it has finished ) are noted.
Multiplying the temperature change by the mass और विशिष्ट ऊष्मा capacities of the substances देता a मान लिये the उर्जा दिए बंद or अवशोषित दौरान the reaction.
dividing the उर्जा बदलें by कैसा अनेक औज़ार of a were present gives its enthalpy change of reaction.
This method is used primarily in अकादमिक शिक्षण as it describes the सिद्धान्त of कैलोरीमिति.
it करता नहीं खाता लिये the ऊष्मा घाटा through the संग्राहक or the heat capacity of the thermometer and container itself.
In addition, the object placed inside the calorimeter shows कि the वस्तुएँ transferred उनके ऊष्मा to the ऊष्मामापी और into the द्रव, और the ऊष्मा अवशोषित by the ऊष्मामापी और the द्रव is बराबर to the ऊष्मा दिए बंद by the metals.
A जोड़ी of ग्रीन flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri, thongs, jandals, or a किस्में of अन्य names throughout the संसार ) हैं a प्रकार of open-toed चन्दन typically worn in कैज़ुअल situations, such as outside or at the beach.
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the foot by a y-shaped डोरी कि गुजरता between the पहला और दूसरी toes और around either side of the foot.
They may also be held to the पैर साथ a सिंगल डोरी over the सामने of the foot rather than a thong.
the नाम `` flip-flop '' originated क्युकी of the ध्वनि कि is बना by slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor when walking.
This style of footwear has been worn by the people of many संस्कृतियों throughout the संसार, originating as जल्दी as the प्राचीन उन्होंने in 4,000 B.C.
The modern flip-flop उतरता इससे the जापानी zōri, जिससे became लोकप्रिय बाद संसार युद्ध ii when soldiers returning to the United States brought them back.
They became popular in casual settings during the 1960s, 1990s, और 2000s, और कुछ किस्में have भी मिला उनके रास्ता into अधिक औपचारिक पहनावा, despite criticism.
the उपयोग of flip-flops can परिणाम in अनेक pains और चोटों, including ankle sprains and broken bones.
Some individuals जो चलना लिये long अवधि रपट pain in the feet, ankles, and lower legs.
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often परिणाम in over-pronation चोटों, caused by the पैर घुसते inwards further than normal.
इस can सीसे to चपटा फीट and tendonitis.
Other injuries that may result are due to the जूते 's open-toed प्रकृति, ऐसे as stubbed toes, cuts, and bruises.
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned सोल्स, as खूब as those कि have a डोरी कि is नहीं कैनवास और कि आता वापस almost to the ankle.
The owners of hanjin ओसाका, देखी यहाँ transiting the पनामा कनाल in 2008, घोषित सामान्य average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room on.
The law of general average is a legal principle of maritime law according to which all parties in a sea venture proportionally share any losses resulting इससे a voluntary बलिदान of भाग of the जलयान or कार्गो to सहेजें the पूरे in an आपात.
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea, crew members often have अनमोल छोटी समय in जिससे to determine precisely जिनकी कार्गो वे हैं jettisoning.
Thus, to avoid quarrelling that could बर्बाद मूल्यवान समय, वहीँ arose the निष्पक्ष अभ्यास whereby सब the व्यापारियों जिनकी कार्गो उतरा सकुशल होता be called on to contribute a portion, based upon a share or percentage, to the merchant or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril.
While general average traces its origins in ancient maritime law, स्टिल it remains भाग of the admiralty विधि of most countries.
The first संहिताकरण of सामान्य औसत थी the यॉर्क antwerp Rules of 1890.
American कंपनियाँ स्वीकृत it in 1949.
General average requires three elements which हैं clearly stated by mr. इंसाफ grier in बर्नार्ड v. आदमs:
`` 1st.
A common danger : a danger in which vessel, cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent and जाहिर 'inevitable, ' मगर by voluntarily रूष्ट the घाटा of a portion of the पूरे to सहेजें the शेष. ''
`` 2nd. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or casting away, of some portion of the संयुक्त चिंता लिये the purpose of बचने इस निकट peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in अन्य शब्द, a ट्रांसफ़र of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole. ''
`` 3rd.
This attempt to avoid the निकट आम peril जरूर be successful ''.
Example पॉलिश कॉल लिये टीकाकरण विरूद्ध Diphtheria and Tetanus.
A टीकाकरण अनुसूची is a श्रेणी of vaccinations, सहित the समय of all doses, which may be either recommended or compulsory, depending on the country of residence.
A vaccine is an antigenic preparation used to produce active immunity to a बीमारी, in अनुक्रम to prevent or reduce the प्रभाव of संक्रमण by कोई प्राकृतिक or `` जंगली '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require अनेक doses लिये अधिकतम प्रभावकारिता, either to उपज sufficient initial immune response or to boost response that fades over time.
For example, टेटनस टीका boosters हैं प्रायः अनुशंसित every 10 years.
Vaccine schedules are developed by governmental agencies or physicians समूह to achieve अधिकतम प्रभावकारिता using जरूरी और अनुशंसित टीके लिये a मोहल्ले जबकि महती the क्रमांक of health care system interactions.
Over the past two decades, the recommended vaccination अनुसूची रै grown rapidly और become अधिक जटिल as अनेक नई टीके have been developed.
Some vaccines are recommended only in certain areas ( देशों, subnational क्षेत्रों, or at-risk populations ) where a disease is common.
लिये उदाहरण, पीला ज्वर टीकाकरण is on the दिनचर्या टीका अनुसूची of फ्रेंच guiana, is अनुशंसित in निश्चित regions of ब्राज़ील but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease.
In developing देशों, टीका सुझाव भी लो into खाता the स्तर of health care access, the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage.
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the World Health Organization show a developed देश using a अनुसूची जिससे extends over the पहला पाँच सालो of a चाइल्ड 's जीवन और उपयोग टीके जिससे लागत over $ 700 सहित प्रशासन लागत जबकि a विकासशील देश उपयोग a schedule providing vaccines in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25.
This difference is due to the निम्नतर लागत of स्वास्थ्य परवाह, the निम्नतर लागत of अनेक टीके provided to विकासशील राष्ट्र, और कि अधिक महंगी vaccines, often for less common diseases, are not utilized.
In 1900, the smallpox टीका थी the तभी एक administered to children.
By the जल्दी 1950s, children routinely प्राप्त चार टीके, लिये सुरक्षा विरूद्ध ( diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, and smallpox ), and as many as five shots by two years of age.
Since the mid-1980s, many टीके have महरूम added to the schedule.
, the US Centers for बीमारी कंट्रोल और रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) अभी अनुशंसा टीकाकरण विरूद्ध at तनिक fourteen diseases.
By two years of आयु, u.S. children प्राप्त as अनेक as 24 टीका injections, और might receive up to five shots during one visit to the doctor.
The use of combination vaccine products अर्थात् कि,, the संयुक्त किंगडम 's immunization कार्यक्रम consists of 10 injections by the आयु of दो, rather than 25 if vaccination for each disease was given as a separate injection.
Two revellers नृत्य in the streets.
The form of dancing is पुकारा `` wining '' ( घुमावदार ) pronounced wine-ing
a म्यूज़िक ट्रक entertains the भीड on the streets.
Trucks are an अभिन्न भाग of the गली परेड, featuring सजीव प्रदर्शन or deejays
The Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an सालाना इवेंट आयोजित on the सोमवार और मंगलवार पहले राख बुधवार, और is खूब ज्ञात लिये भागीदार 's रंगीन वेशभूषा and exuberant celebrations.
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant इवेंट on the आइलैंड्स ' सांस्कृतिक और पर्यटन पंचांग, साथ numerous सांस्कृतिक कार्यक्रम कार्यशील in the सीसे up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday.
it is कहा कि if the आइलैंडर्स हैं नहीं celebrating it, then they are preparing for it, while reminiscing about the past year 's festival.
The heart of the musical जश्न रै महरूम कैलिप्सो ; recently सोका रै replaced कैलिप्सो as the most celebrated type of music.
वेशभूषा, stickfighting और limbo प्रतियोगिताओं हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण components of the festival.
Carnival as it is मनाये in त्रिनिदाद और Tobago is also celebrated in cities worldwide.
These सहित टोरंटो 's caribana, मियामी 's मियामी कार्निवल, ह्यूस्टन carifest, लंदन 's नॉटिंग हिल कार्निवल as खूब as नई York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few.
Carnival was created when West African slaves mimicked उनके फ्रेंच स्वामी जो जहाँ ज्ञात लिये उनके lavish वेशभूषा गेंदें.
Forbidden to partake in these festivities and confined to their quarters, स्लेव संयुक्त तत्व इससे उनके अपना संस्कृतियों to उनके निपुण 's fete.
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab jab or jab molassie ( शैतानों ), मध्यरात्रि लुटेरों, imps, lagahroo, soucouyant, La Diablesse and Demons.
With the abolition of slavery in 1838, freed Africans took their version of कार्निवल to the गलियों through अभिव्यक्ति of ड्रम, riddim भाग जैसे tamboo बाँसुरी और as प्रत्येक नई अप्रवासी जनसांख्यिकी डाला त्रिनिदाद, कार्निवल विकसित into कया we know today.
The city of Chicago, Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral चुनाव on मंगलवार, फ़रवरी 22, 2011.
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley, a member of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी जो था महरूम in दफ्तर since 1989, did not seek a seventh term as mayor.
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 याचिका हस्ताक्षर by नवम्बर 22, 2010 to qualify for a place on the ballot.
अप्रैल 5, 2011 थी अनुसूचित to be a runoff चुनाव date if no candidate received an absolute majority.
Rahm Emanuel जीती the रेस लिये महापौर साथ more than 55 % of the vote.
He was उदघाटन on may 16, 2011.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी इंडी पॉप बैंड फोस्टर the लोगों.
It was released as the group 's debut सिंगल in सितंबर 2010, और the following साल थी शामिल on उनके ep फोस्टर the लोगों और उनके डेब्यू album Torches.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the समूह 's भेदन hit और थी एक of the most popular songs of 2011.
The सोंग थी लिखा और अंकित by frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर जबकि he थी working as a commercial jingle writer.
Contrasting with the upbeat musical संयोजन, the गीत describe the homicidal विचार of a troubled youth.
The track प्राप्त considerable ध्यान बाद it थी posted ऑनलाइन in 2010 as a फ़्री डाउनलोड, और it helped the group garner a multi-album record deal with Columbia Records imprint Startime International.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a sleeper hit ; in 2011, बाद receiving significant airplay on आधुनिक चट्टान स्टेशन, the सोंग crossed-over onto समकालीन hit रेडियो stations.
The song खर्च आठ लगातार सप्ताह at क्रमांक तीन on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य, बनाना it the पहला बिलबोर्ड वैकल्पिक गीतों number-one सिंगल to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009.
The song was widely praised by critics, और it रै महरूम licensed लिये उपयोग in a चौड़ी दायरा of लोकप्रिय media since its release.
`` Pumped up kicks '' प्राप्त a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन पॉप Duo/Group Performance.
The State Fair of West Virginia is an annual राज्य मेला लिये वेस्ट वर्जिनिया.
It is आयोजित annually in mid-august on the राज्य fairgrounds in fairlea, निकट lewisburg, वेस्ट Virginia in the southeastern part of the state.
The State Fairgrounds consists of a विशाल खोलें फ़ील्ड लिये carnivals और प्रदर्शनियों, a घोड़ा track, grandstands, and several exhibition buildings.
Free पार्किंग is provided सटा to the fairgrounds और, जबतक 2006, free camping was also available in a large field with running-water toilets and showers, but no hookups.
Campers हैं अभी चार्ज a small fee.
The White House, the president 's official निवास और बीच of the प्रशासन
Under the United States Constitution, the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal सरकारी as a पूरे, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य by influence और मान्यता.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
The president is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year पद by an चुनावी कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि should the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no person may be elected President more than twice, और no एक जो रै परोसा अधिक than दो सालो of a पद to जिससे किसी else थी निर्वाचित may be निर्वाचित अधिक than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or हटाना इससे दफ्तर of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the office.
The President must be at least 35 years of आयु और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' नागरिक of the संयुक्त States.
This list शामिल तभी those व्यक्तियों जो यहूद sworn into दफ्तर as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
For American नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन, देखिए अध्यक्ष of the महाद्वीपीय Congress.
The list does not शामिल कोई एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth amendment to the संयुक्त States Constitution.
वहीँ have महरूम 43 लोगों sworn into दफ्तर, और 44 presidencies, as ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding, and Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट ), चार यहूद assassinated ( अब्राहम lincoln, जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड, विलियम mckinley, और जॉन F. कैनेडी ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first president, थी उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the चुनावी कॉलेज.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office साथ 32 दिनों in 1841, और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over बारह सालो, लकिन died shortly into उसके चौथी पद in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two terms, and a constitutional amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों बाद हैरी ट्रूमैन, थी passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of टाइम्स an individual can be elected president.
एंड्रयू जैक्सन, the सातवाँ अध्यक्ष, थी the पहला to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब वर्ग in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first elected बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920.
History records four राष्ट्रपतियों – जॉन q एडम्स, रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़, बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया the popular vote but assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of रोमन कैथोलिक आस्था, और the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, बराक ओबामा, is the पहला अध्यक्ष of African descent.
`` Lombardi ट्रॉफी '' redirects यहाँ.
For the award awarded annually to the बेहतरीन कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल lineman or linebacker, see Lombardi Award.
The Vince Lombardi ट्रॉफी is the ट्रॉफी awarded प्रत्येक साल to the जीतना टोली of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's चैंपियनशिप game, the Super Bowl.
The trophy is named in सम्मान of legendary एनएफएल कोच विंस लोम्बार्डी.
This is a list of tables of the सत्यापित oldest लोगों in the संसार in ordinal रैंक, ऐसे as oldest व्यक्ति or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international देह कि specifically सौदे in आयु शोध, ऐसे as the जराविद्या शोध समूह ( grg ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ), जो died at आयु 122 सालो, 164 दिनों.
She met Vincent वैन gogh जब वो थी 12 or 13.
इस led to न्यूज मीडिया ध्यान in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's आयु, परे कोई उचित सवाल, in the रिकॉर्ड of उसके देशी city, Arles, France.
More evidence of calment 's जीवनकाल रै महरूम उत्पादित than लिये कोई अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
the longest undisputed जीवनकाल लिये पुरूष supercentenarians is कि of Jiroemon Kimura, who currently lives in Japan and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina manfredini of the संयुक्त राज्य, on 17 दिसम्बर 2012, किमुरा, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest जीना व्यक्ति in the world whose age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest जीना man चूंकि the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर Breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of जापानी on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest जीना स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
The People 's Court is an अमरीकी arbitration-based वास्तविकता अदालत दिखाएँ, फिलहाल presided over by रिटायर्ड फ्लोरिडा राज्य सर्किट अदालत न्यायधीश Marilyn Milian, in which small claims disputes are handled.
The People 's Court is the first court show to use बाइंडिंग मध्यस्थता, introducing the स्वरूप into the विधा in 1981.
The प्रणाली रै महरूम duplicated by सबसे of the दिखाएँ 's successors in the judicial genre.
Moreover, The लोगों 's अदालत is the पहला लोकप्रिय, long-running reality in the judicial genre.
It was preceded तभी by a few short-lived हकीकत in the विधा ; ये short-lived पूर्ववर्तियों यहूद तभी loosely सम्बन्धित to न्यायिक कार्यवाही, मगर लिये एक : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings.
Prior to The People 's Court, the विशाल बहुमत of tv courtroom shows प्रयुक्त अभिनेताओं, और बनाई or fictional मामले ( as did radio before that ).
Among examples of these types of अदालत shows शामिल प्रसिद्ध जूरी ट्रायल और Your Witness.
The People 's अदालत रै था दो चिहृ जीवनदान.
the दिखाएँ 's पहला जीवन थी presided over solely by पूर्व Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Joseph Wapner.
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on September 14, 1981, जबतक may 21, 1993, जब the दिखाएँ थी रद्द due to कम दरजा.
This बाएँ the दिखाएँ साथ a कुल of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons.
The show was taped in लॉस एंजिल्स दौरान इसके first life.
After being cancelled, reruns aired जबतक सितंबर 9, 1994.
On September 8, 1997, after होने आउट of उत्पादन लिये चार सालो, the लोगों 's अदालत थी revived लिये a दूसरी जीवन in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program.
Former lawyer और महापौर of नई यॉर्क ed koch थी चुनी as arbiter, जिससे he कायम लिये 2 सीज़न from the 1997–98 season through the 1998–99 season ( the present life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 season, husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over न्यायधीश जुडी ) और पूर्व नई यॉर्क राज्य परम् अदालत न्यायधीश जेरी sheindlin succeeded Koch.
sheindlin lasted एक और a हाफ सीज़न as he थी replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ).
Beginning in spring 2001, फ्लोरिडा न्यायधीश मर्लिन milian took over the लोगों 's Court and has presided over the show ever since.
Once Milian completes the 2012–13 ऋतु, वो होगा have परोसा as longest arbiter over the series with 12 and a half seasons.
As of the उपस्थित, however, उसके सालो on the कार्यक्रम टाई wapner at 12 seasons.
In the 2009-10 टेलीविज़न ऋतु, the लोगों 's न्यायालयों 2nd/present life outlasted its first when it reached 13 seasons.
While the show taped in New York City for the first 15 seasons of its दूसरी जीवन, it अभी टेपों in stamford, कनेक्टिकट as of the 2012-13 ऋतु.
On सितंबर 3, 2012, the लोगों 's अदालत 's 2nd/present जीवन entered its 16th season ( 28th overall season ).
With 28 कुल सीज़न, the लोगों 's अदालत बाँधने as the 2nd longest-running courtroom कार्यक्रम पीछे the जारी तलाक अदालत at 33 सीज़न ( from its 3 combined lives ).
Utah ( or ) ( arapaho : wo'tééneihí ' ) is a राज्य in the Western United States.
It became the 45th राज्य admitted to the संघ on January 4, 1896.
Utah is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, और the 10th-least-densely आबादी of the 50 United States.
लगभग 80 % of यूटा 's 2,817,222 लोगों सजीव साथ the wasatch सामने, centering on नमक झील नगर, leaving विशाल expanses of the राज्य nearly uninhabited और बनाना the जनसांख्यिकी the छठे सबसे urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east, Wyoming on the northeast, Idaho on the north, Arizona on the south, and Nevada on the west.
It भी छू a कोने of नई मैक्सिको on the southeast.
Utah is the most religiously समरूप राज्य in the Union.
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day संतो or lds ( mormons ), जिससे greatly influences Utah culture and daily life.
The world headquarters of The Church of यीशु मसीह of latter-day संतो ( lds गिरिजाघर ) is स्तिथ in यूटा 's राज्य capital.
The state is a center of परिवहन, शिक्षा, सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी और शोध, सरकारी सेवाएं, खनन, और a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation.
According to the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's जनसांख्यिकी estimates, Utah is the fifth fastest-growing state in the United States as of 2012.
St. George, was the fastest–growing महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त States from 2000 to 2005.
A 2012 Gallup नेशनल सर्वेक्षण मिला यूटा overall to be the `` बेहतरीन राज्य to सजीव in '' आधारित on 13 forward-looking measurements including various economic, lifestyle, and health-related outlook metrics.
coldwater is a छोटी कस्बा in टेट काउंटी, Mississippi.
It is in the मेम्फिस महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 1,674 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
The hard palate is a पतला आड़ा बोनी थाली of the कपाल, स्तिथ in the roof of the mouth.
It spans the मेहराब formed by the अपर दांत.
It is formed by the palatine प्रक्रम of the maxilla and horizontal plate of palatine bone.
It forms a विभाजन between the nasal passages और the mouth.
Also on the anterior portion of the छत of the मुश्किल तालु is the rugae जिससे हैं the irregular ridges in the श्लेष्मक झिल्ली कि help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx.
This विभाजन is जारी deeper into the मुँह by a मांसल extension called the soft palate.
पूरा नियत of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The tanakh (, or ; भी tenakh, tenak, tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The Tanakh is भी ज्ञात as the masoretic टेक्स्ट or the miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '', भी ज्ञात as the पाँच किताबे of मूसा ), nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), अर्थ `` कि जिससे is पढ़ा '', is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी term for the Tanakh.
The books of the tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक परंपरा passed on by प्रत्येक पीढी, called the Oral Torah.
गम्भीरता नाका in जर्मनी
Driving under the influence ( DUI ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), drunken driving, drunk driving, drink ड्राइविंग, ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence, पीने और ड्राइविंग, or impaired ड्राइविंग is the अपराधों of ड्राइविंग a मोटर गाडी साथ रक्त स्तर of दारू in excess of a विधिक सीमा ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '', or `` BAC '' ).
समान regulations कवर ड्राइविंग or ऑपरेटिंग निश्चित प्रकार of मशीनरी जबकि प्रभावित by पीने दारू or taking other drugs, including, but not limited to prescription drugs.
इस is a दण्ड ठोकर in most nations.
convictions do नहीं necessarily involve actual driving of the vehicle.
in सबसे jurisdictions a मापन ऐसे as a रक्त दारू सामग्री ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज स्तर, such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense, with no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol.
In some jurisdictions, वहीँ is an क्रोधित श्रेणी of the ठोकर at a higher level e.g. 0.12 %.
In most countries, anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing someone जबकि अंतर्गत the influence of दारू or दवाएँ can be heavily fined, as in फ़्रांस, in जोड to होने दिए a lengthy थाना sentence.
Some jobs have their own नियम और bac हद, लिये उदाहरण वाणिज्यिक पायलट, और the संघीय रेलरोड प्रशासन in the संयुक्त राज्य रै a 0.04 % limit for train crew.
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; for example, the state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै a 0.08 % bac सीमा, जिससे is lowered to 0.04 % if the ऑपरेटर holds a commercial driver 's license.
The California BAC limit is 0.01 % for those younger than 21 सालो of आयु और those on परिवीक्षा लिये a पिछला dui conviction.
Some large corporations have their अपना नियम ; संघ प्रशांत रेलरोड रै उनके अपना bac सीमा of 0.02 % कि, if violated दौरान a यादृच्छिक परीक्षण or a for-cause परीक्षण — लिये उदाहरण, बाद a traffic accident — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire.
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in कनाडा have अपनाया सच्चाई in sentencing कानून कि enforce सख्त दिशानिर्देश on sentencing, differing इससे पिछला practice where prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued.
Some jurisdictions have न्यायिक दिशानिर्देश requiring a अनिवार्य न्यूनतम वाक्य.
दंड लिये dui आरोप दायरा इससे महंगी शुल्क to forfetiruree of your license plates and in some serious circumstances, your vehicle.
a नशे ड्राइविंग सिम्युलेटर in montréal, Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called, depending on the jurisdiction, driving under the influence [ of alcohol or other drugs ] ( DUI ), driving under intense influence ( duii ), ड्राइविंग जबकि intoxicated ( dwi ), ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence ( oui ) ऑपरेटिंग जबकि intoxicated ( owi ), ऑपरेटिंग a मोटर गाडी जबकि intoxicated ( omvi ), ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the संयुक्त influence of alcohol and/or other drugs, driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ].
Many such laws apply भी to motorcycling, बोटिंग, piloting वायुयान, उपयोग of motile फार्म उपकरण ऐसे as tractors और combines, सवारी घोड़े or ड्राइविंग a horse-drawn vehicle, or bicycling, possibly with different BAC level than driving.
In some jurisdictions वहीँ हैं पृथक आरोप depending on the गाडी प्रयुक्त, ऐसे as bwi ( bicycling जबकि intoxicated ), which may carry a lighter sentence.
In the United States, local विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसियों बना 1,467,300 रखवाले देशभर लिये ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence of दारू in 1996, compared to 1.9 million such arrests during the peak year in 1983.
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 dwi अपराधियों यहूद in थाना or कारावास, bas इससे 593,000 in 1990 और up इससे 270,100 in 1986.
Officers from US कस्टम और किनारा सुरक्षा बोर्डिंग a जलयान
Law enforcement in the United राज्य is एक of तीन प्रमुख components of the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली of the संयुक्त राज्य, along with courts and corrections.
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the अलग समूह कि मेक up the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली आधारित on उनके अपराधों deterrence purpose, each component operates independently from one another.
However, the न्यायपालिका is vested साथ the शक्ति to मेक विधिक determinations regarding the conduct of the other two components.
Apart from maintaining order and service functions, the purpose of policing is the छानबीन of suspected दण्ड कार्यकलाप और the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts.
विधि प्रवर्तन, to varying डिग्री at अलग स्तर of सरकारी और in अलग एजेंसियों, is भी commonly चार्ज साथ the जिम्मेदारियों of deterring criminal activity and of preventing the successful commission of crimes in progress ; the service and enforcement of warrants, writs and other orders of the courts.
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing पहला जवाब to emergencies और अन्य खतरे to पब्लिक सुरक्षा ; the सुरक्षा of निश्चित पब्लिक सुविधाएं और अवसंरचना ; the मेंटेनेंस of पब्लिक अनुक्रम ; the सुरक्षा of पब्लिक officials ; और the आपरेशन of कुछ correctional सुविधाएं ( usually at the local level ).
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born जून 28, 1968 ), बेहतरीन ज्ञात अंतर्गत the स्टेज नाम chayanne, is a प्यूर्टो Rican Latin pop singer and actor.
As a solo artist, Chayanne has released 21 सोलो एल्बम और बेची over 15 लाख एल्बम worldwide.
`` World युद्ध हल्क '' is a कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर कथानक कि भागा through a self titled limited series and various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007, featuring the Hulk.
The series consists of five प्रमुख मुद्दे titled संसार युद्ध हल्क, साथ ग्रेग पाक as लेखक और जॉन romita, jr. as penciller, और तीन अन्य सीमित श्रेणी : संसार युद्ध Hulk : Front Line, World War Hulk : Gamma Corps, and World War Hulk : X-Men.
It also ran through several अन्य आश्चर्य कॉमिक्स श्रेणी.
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into स्पेस by the illuminati और a जीवन मॉडल decoy of उपनाम फ़्यूरी, the हल्क 's subsequent निर्वासन देखी in ग्रह हल्क और उसके निकट वापसी to धरती to seek revenge on the Illuminati.
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert मॉरिसन ; may 26, 1907 – जून 11, 1979 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम जॉन वेन, थी an अमरीकी फिल्मी कर्ता, निदेशक और निर्माता.
An Academy Award -winner, Wayne was among the top बक्सा दफ्तर draws लिये तीन दशकों, और थी नामित the all-time शीर्ष money-making star.
An enduring American प्रतीक, he epitomized खुरदरा मर्दानगी और is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके demeanor, सहित उसके distinctive calm voice, walk, and height.
Wayne was born in Winterset, Iowa लकिन उसके परिवार relocated to the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल जब he थी चार सालो old.
He found work at लोकल फिल्मी studios जब he खोया उसके फ़ुटबॉल स्कॉलरशिप to USC as a result of a bodysurfing accident.
Initially working लिये the फॉक्स फिल्मी निगम, he ज़्यादातर appeared in small bit parts.
His पहला अग्रणी भूमिका आए in the वाइडस्क्रीन एपिक the बिग ट्रेल ( 1930 ), जिससे led to अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in numerous films throughout the 1930s, many of them in the western genre.
उसके करियर रोज़ to further हाइट्स in 1939, साथ जॉन घाट 's stagecoach बनाना him an instant superstar.
Wayne would go on to star in 142 pictures, primarily typecast in पश्चिमी films.
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ), which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ), in which he plays a Civil War दिग्गज जो seeks आउट उसके abducted भांजी ; रिओ ब्रावो ( 1959 ), playing a शेरिफ साथ डीन मार्टिन ; सच्चा grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous u.s. मार्शल जो सेट आउट to avenge a man 's मौत in the भूमिका कि जीती वेन an अकादमी पुरस्कार ; और the shootist ( 1976 ), उसके फाइनल स्क्रीन प्रदर्शन in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer.
Wayne moved to नारंगी काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the 1960s, और थी a prominent रिपब्लिकन in Hollywood, supporting anti-communist positions.
He died of पेट कर्कट in 1979.
In June 1999, the American Film Institute named वेन 13th among the महानतम पुरूष स्क्रीन महापुरूष of All Time.
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 जनवरी 1642 ), थी an इतालवी physicist, गणितज्ञ, astronomer, और पारस जो निभाई a major role in the Scientific Revolution.
His उपलब्धियाँ शामिल सुधार to the दूरदर्शी और consequent खगोलीय observations और support for Copernicanism.
Galileo has been called the `` father of आधुनिक observational खगोलशास्त्र ``, the `` पिता of आधुनिक भौतिकी ``, the `` पिता of विज्ञान '', और `` the Father of Modern Science ''.
His contributions to observational खगोलशास्त्र शामिल the telescopic पुष्टि of the phases of शुक्र, the डिस्कवरी of the चार largest satellites of बृहस्पति ( नामित the galilean moons in उसके इज्ज़त ), and the observation and analysis of sunspots.
Galileo also worked in applied विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी, inventing an improved सैन्य कम्पास और अन्य यंत्र.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was विवादास्पद भीतर उसके आजीवन, जब सबसे subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system.
He met with opposition इससे खगोलशास्त्रियों, जो doubted heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed stellar parallax.
The matter was investigated by the रोमन inquisition in 1615, और वे concluded कि it could be समर्थित as only a possibility, not an established fact.
Galileo later defended his views in संवाद concerning the दो मुख्य संसार प्रणालियों, जिससे appeared to आक्रमण पोप शहरी viii और यूँ alienated him and the Jesuits, who had both supported Galileo up until this point.
He was tried by the inquisition, मिला `` ओजस्वी suspect of heresy '', मजबूर to recant, और खर्च the rest of his life under house arrest.
It was जबकि गैलीलियो थी अंतर्गत हाउस गिरफ़्तार कि he लिखा एक of उसके finest works, दो नई sciences, in जिससे he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier, on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of materials.
55 '' lg oled tv showcased at CES 2012
Prototype OLED lighting फलक विकसित by lumiotec
Demonstration of a लचीली oled यंत्र
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting डायोड ( led ) in जिससे the emissive electroluminescent परत is a फिल्मी of सशुल्क यौगिक जिससे emits लाइट in response to an electric current.
This परत of सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is situated between two electrodes.
Generally, at तनिक एक of ये electrodes is transparent.
OLEDs are used to create digital प्रदर्शक in डिवाइस ऐसे as टेलीविज़न screens, computer monitors, portable systems such as mobile phones, handheld games consoles and PDAs.
A major area of research is the development of श्वेत oled डिवाइस लिये उपयोग in solid-state lighting अनुप्रयोग.
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख परिवारों of oleds : those based on small molecules and those employing polymers.
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical कोशिका or लैक, जिससे रै a थोड़ा अलग विधि of operation.
oled प्रदर्शक can उपयोग either passive-matrix ( pmoled ) or active-matrix addressing schemes.
Active-matrix OLEDs ( AMOLED ) require a thin-film transistor backplane to switch each individual पिक्सेल on or बंद, लकिन allow लिये उच्चतर रेज़ोल्यूशन और larger प्रदर्शक आकार.
an oled प्रदर्शक works बगैर a backlight.
Thus, it can प्रदर्शक गहन ब्लैक स्तर और can be thinner और हल्का than a द्रव crystal display ( LCD ).
In low ambient light conditions such as a अंधेरा रूम an oled स्क्रीन can achieve a उच्चतर कंट्रास्ट अनुपात than an एलसीडी, whether the LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight.
A carton and a glass of eggnog इससे मॉन्ट्रियल, कनाडा, प्रर्दशित इसके फ्रेंच मुखाग्र ( अंग्रेज़ी रिवर्स ) और the फ्रेंच पद लेत de poule ( वस्तुतः, `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog, or अंडा nog, is a sweetened दुग्ध -आधारd पेय traditionally बना साथ milk and/or cream, sugar, and whipped eggs ( which gives it a frothy texture ).
ब्रांडी, rum, व्हिस्की, bourbon, वोदका, or a combination of liquors are often added.
The finished serving is often garnished with a sprinkling of मैदान दालचीनी or जायफल.
It थी भी ज्ञात as the अंडा मिल्क punch.
Eggnog is a popular पेय throughout the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा, और is प्रायः संबद्ध with Christmas.
eggnog may be added as a flavoring to खाना or drinks such as coffee and tea.
Eggnog as a custard can also be प्रयुक्त as an बर्फ मलाई आधार.
A pasty (, ), ( sometimes ज्ञात in ब्रिटेन as a cornish pasty, और in the संयुक्त राज्य as a pastie or अंग्रेजों pasty ) is a baked pastry, a traditional variety of which is particularly associated with Cornwall, the westernmost county in England.
It is made by placing uncooked भरना typically of मांस और सब्जियां, बगैर मांस in शाकाहारी संस्करण, on a चपटा पेस्ट्री वृत्त और फोल्डिंग it to रैप the भरना, crimping the edge to form a seal.
After baking, the result is a उठाया semicircular comestible.
The traditional Cornish pasty, which has Protected Geographical Indication ( PGI ) status in Europe, is filled with beef, sliced or diced potato, swede ( भी ज्ञात as a पीला शलजम or rutabaga – referred to in कॉर्नवॉल as शलजम ) और प्याज, seasoned साथ नमक और pepper, और is baked.
Today, the pasty is the food most associated with Cornwall, it is regarded as the नेशनल डिश, और it खाते लिये 6 % of the cornish खाना अर्थव्यवस्था.
Pasties with many different fillings हैं बना ; कुछ दुकानें specialise in selling सब sorts of pasties.
The origins of the pasty हैं unclear, हालांकि वहीँ हैं अनेक सन्दर्भ to उन्हें throughout historical documents and fiction.
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the spread of Cornish खनिक, और विसंगतियाँ can be मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the संयुक्त राज्य, मैक्सिको और elsewhere.
The ( ortho- ) सहानुभूतिपूर्ण बेचैन प्रणाली ( sns ) is एक of तीन प्रमुख भाग of the autonomic बेचैन system : the others being the enteric and parasympathetic systems.
Its general कार्रवाई is to mobilize the देह 's बेचैन प्रणाली fight-or-flight response.
It is, however, constantly क्रियाशील at a मौलिक स्तर to maintain homeostasis.
Secure डिजिटल or ( sd ) is a non-volatile मेमोरी कार्ड स्वरूप लिये उपयोग in पोर्टेबल डिवाइस, ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन, digital cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure Digital standard is कायम by the sd कार्ड संघ ( SDA ).
SD technologies have महरूम implemented in अधिक than 400 ब्रांड्स आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद categories and more than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital format includes four card परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन अलग रूप factors.
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( sdhc ), the extended-capacity ( sdxc ), और the sdio, जिससे combines input/output कृत्यों with data storage.
The three form factors are the असली आकार, the `` मिनी '' आकार, और the `` सूक्ष्म '' आकार ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of रूप कारकों और यंत्र परिवारों.
electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी कार्ड in a मेजबान यंत्र built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply साथ नए संस्करण of the specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept पुरानी sd ताश, लकिन इस आलेख explains अनेक कारकों that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A नए कार्ड may प्रस्ताव वृहद क्षमता than the host device can handle.
A newer card may use a file प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र can नहीं navigate.
Use of an sdio कार्ड requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed for the input/output functions the card provides.
The organization of the कार्ड थी बदला starting साथ the sdhc family.
Some विक्रेता उत्पादित sdsc ताश ऊपर 1 gb पहले the sda था मानकीकृत a method of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked लोगो to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ और assure users of compatibility.
The following is a सूची of आलोचकों of the New Deal.
Daniel Lawrence Whitney ( born फ़रवरी 17, 1963 ) बेहतरीन ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम और अक्षर लैरी the केबल guy, is an अमरीकी stand-up हास्य, actor, country music artist, voice actor, and former radio personality.
He was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy दौरे, a कॉमेडी troupe जिससे शामिल विधेयक engvall, रॉन श्वेत, और जेफ़ foxworthy ( साथ जिसको he रै स्ट्रक्चर on Blue Collar TV ).
Whitney has released सात कॉमेडी एल्बम, of जिससे तीन have महरूम certified gold by the RIAA for shipments of 500,000 copies.
In addition, he has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related movies, as well as in the films Larry the Cable Guy : Health इंस्पेक्टर, डेल्टा तमाशा, और witless सुरक्षा, as खूब as voicing मेटर in the गाड़ियाँ मताधिकार.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` Git-R-Done ! '' is भी the शीर्षक of उसके book.
On January 26, 2010, the TV चैनल इतिहास घोषित कि it थी ordering a श्रेणी अभिनीत व्हिटनी पुकारा तभी in अमेरिका साथ लैरी the केबल guy, in जिससे he होता explore the देश और immerse himself in different lifestyles, jobs, and hobbies.
the पहला एपीसोड of the श्रेणी aired on February 8, 2011.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal अवशोषण of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट.
In humans, the most महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन d हैं विटामिन D2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as वे constitute कया we जान as विटामिन d और can be ingested इससे the आहार and/or पूरक.
the देह can भी synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) when sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although विटामिन d is commonly पुकारा a विटामिन, it is नहीं दरअसल an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize विटामिन d efficiently और जरूर प्राप्त it in उनके diet. )
An organic रासायनिक यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly पुकारा विटामिन, विटामिन d थी खोजा in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called vitamins, in the विकसित संसार विटामिन d is added to स्टेपल भोजन, ऐसे as मिल्क, to avoid बीमारी due to कमियां.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to धूप as खूब as सेवन इससे the आहार, और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the मेंटेनेंस of पर्याप्त सीरम एकाग्रता.
The evidence indicates that the संश्लेषण of विटामिन d इससे सूर्य एक्सपोज़र works in a प्रतिक्रिया लूप कि रोकता toxicity लकिन, क्युकी of अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट risk from sunlight, no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference Intakes for विटामिन d assume कि no संश्लेषण occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d is इससे उनके diet, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as calcifediol ( इन ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त, regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
calcidiol is भी परिवर्तित to calcitriol बाहर of the गुर्दे लिये अन्य उद्देश्य, ऐसे as the अप्रसार, differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of विटामिन d supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best evidence of लाभ is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in mortality in elderly women.
Standard form of the आवधिक तालिका.
The colors represent different श्रेणी of तत्व समझाया नीचे.
The periodic table is a tabular display of the रासायनिक तत्व, व्यवस्थित on the आधार of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
Elements हैं प्रस्तुत in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( number of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of तत्व, positioned ऊपर a smaller double row of elements.
the तालिका can भी be deconstructed into चार आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ, the p-block to the सही, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, और p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह, साथ कुछ of ये having names ऐसे as the हैलोजन्स or the noble gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates recurring trends, any such table can be used to derive संबंध between the गुण of the तत्व और भविष्यवाणी the गुण of नई, yet to be खोजा or synthesized, तत्व.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the मानक रूप or कुछ अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव, और ऐसे टेबल हैं widely प्रयुक्त in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the पहला widely recognized periodic table.
He developed उसके तालिका to illustrate आवधिक रुझान in the गुण of the then-known elements.
mendeleev भी पूर्वानुमानित कुछ गुण of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct जब the तत्व in सवाल यहूद subsequently खोजा.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further नई तत्व और the विकास of नई सैद्धांतिक मॉडल to बताइये रासायनिक बर्ताव.
All elements from परमाणु संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम discovered or synthesized.
the तत्व इससे 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to मौजूद naturally, हालांकि कुछ हैं मिला तभी in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
The elements बाद 98 have तभी महरूम synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is होने धड़ा, साथ the सवाल of कैसा the आवधिक तालिका may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate.
numerous सिंथेटिक radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
न्यूनतम मजदूरी by u.S. राज्य और u.S. territory ( अमरीकी समोआ, गुआम, प्यूर्टो रीको, Virgin Islands ), as of Jan. 1, 2013.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, मजदूर हैं generally हकदार to be paid no less than the statutory minimum wage.
The संघीय सरकारी mandates a देशभर न्यूनतम मजदूरी स्तर of $ 7.25 प्रति घंटा, जबकि कुछ राज्य और municipalities have नियत न्यूनतम wage levels higher than the federal level, with the highest state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013.
Among those सशुल्क by the घंटा in 2012, 1.6 लाख यहूद reported as earning exactly the prevailing federal minimum wage.
परिचय 2.0 लाख यहूद reported as कमाई मजदूरी नीचे the minimum.
Together, these 3.6 million workers with मजदूरी at or नीचे the न्यूनतम बना up 4.7 प्रतिशत of सब hourly-paid workers.
A selection of Bourbons and टेनेसी whiskeys offered at a liquor स्टोर in decatur, Georgia
Evan विलियम्स bourbon whiskey
bourbon whiskey is a प्रकार of अमरीकी whiskey – a barrel-aged आसुत spirit made primarily from corn.
The नाम of the स्पिरिट गर्भाशयी इससे इसके ऐतिहासिक संघ साथ an क्षेत्रफल ज्ञात as बूढ़ा bourbon, around कया is now Bourbon County, Kentucky ( which, in turn, was named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ).
It has been produced चूंकि the 18th सदी.
While it may be बना anywhere in the संयुक्त राज्य, it is strongly संबद्ध with the American South in general, and Kentucky in particular.
The Mona Lisa ( la gioconda or la joconde ) is a half-length पोर्ट्रेट of a स्त्री by the इतालवी कलाकार लियोनार्डो da विंची, जिससे रै महरूम acclaimed as `` the बेहतरीन ज्ञात, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world. ''
The painting, thought to be a portrait of लिसा gherardini, the बीवी of francesco डेल giocondo, is in आयल on a poplar फलक, और is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506.
It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the प्रॉपर्टी of the फ्रेंच गणतंत्र, on स्थाई प्रदर्शक at the musée du louvre in पेरिस चूंकि 1797.
The ambiguity of the विषय 's अभिव्यक्ति, जिससे is अक्सर वर्णित as enigmatic, the monumentality of the संयोजन, the हल्का मॉडलिंग of फ़ॉर्म और the वायुमंडलीय illusionism यहूद अनोखा qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work.
Robert Allen पामर ( 19 जनवरी 1949 – 26 सितंबर 2003 ), थी an अंग्रेज़ी singer-songwriter and musician.
He was known for his distinctive voice and the eclectic मिक्सर of musical शैलियाँ on उसके एल्बम, combining आत्मा, जैज़, चट्टान, पॉप, reggae and blues.
He found success दोनो in उसके सोलो करियर और in the musical अधिनियम the शक्ति स्टेशन, and had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US.
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits `` Addicted to Love `` and `` Simply Irresistible `` featured identically dressed dancing women with pale faces, अंधेरा नजर मेकअप और उज्जवल रेड लिपस्टिक, जिससे resembled the महिलाओं in the आर्ट of पैट्रिक nagel, an कलाकार लोकप्रिय in the 1980s.
Sharp-suited, his involvement in the म्यूज़िक उद्योग commenced in the 1960s, covered पाँच दशकों और शामिल a spell with Vinegar Joe.
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career, including two ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन पुरूष चट्टान गायन प्रदर्शन, an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, and was twice nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male.
Computed tomography एंजियोग्राफी ( cta ) is a computed टोमोग्राफी तकनीक प्रयुक्त to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the body.
This ranges from धमनियों सेवारत the दिमाग to those bringing रक्त to the फेफड़े, kidneys, arms and legs.
the champs-élysées सजा साथ flags for Bastille Day
horseman of the फ्रेंच रिपब्लिकन गार्ड दौरान the 2007 military parade on the Champs-Élysées.
prise de la bastille by jean-pierre-louis-laurent Houel
Bastille Day is the नाम दिए in english-speaking देशों to the फ्रेंच नेशनल दिन, जिससे is मनाये on the 14th of July each year.
In France, it is formally पुकारा la fête nationale ( ; the नेशनल जश्न ) और commonly le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ).
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération, held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the वर्षगांठ of the storming of the bastille fortress-prison थी देखी as a प्रतीक of the uprising of the आधुनिक स्वदेश, और of the reconciliation of सब the फ्रेंच अंदर the constitutional monarchy which preceded the First Republic, during the French Revolution.
Festivities and official ceremonies हैं आयोजित सब over France.
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held on the morning of 14 जुलाई, on the champs-élysées एवेन्यू in पेरिस in सामने of the अध्यक्ष of the गणतंत्र, फ्रेंच officials और विदेशी guests.
The संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ( यूएसए or u.s.A. ), commonly पुकारा the संयुक्त राज्य ( us or u.S. ) or अमेरिका, is a संघीय गणतंत्र consisting of fifty states and a federal district.
The lower forty-eight contiguous states and the संघीय ज़िला of वॉशिंगटन, d.C. हैं in सेंट्रल उत्तर अमेरिका between कनाडा and Mexico.
The state of Alaska is west of Canada and east of Russia आरपार the बेरिंग जलसन्धि, और the राज्य of हवाई is in the mid-north प्रशांत.
The country also has five populated and nine unpopulated territories in the प्रशांत और the caribbean.
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 लाख km2 ) और साथ around 315 लाख लोगों, the संयुक्त राज्य is the third- or fourth-largest देश by total area and the third-largest by both land area and population.
It is one of the संसार 's सबसे ethnically विविध और multicultural राष्ट्र, the उत्पाद of large-scale immigration from many countries.
The geography और जलवायु of the u.S. is भी अत्यधिक विविध, साथ रेगिस्तान, मैदान, वनों, और kyu कि हैं home to a wide variety of species.
Paleoindians migrated from Asia to what is अभी the संयुक्त राज्य मेनलैंड around 15,000 years ago.
बाद 1500, बूढ़ा संसार रोगों introduced by Europeans greatly reduced their populations.
European colonization began around 1600 और आए ज़्यादातर from England.
The United States emerged from thirteen अंग्रेजों colonies located along the Atlantic seaboard.
Disputes between ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और the अमरीकी colonies led to the अमरीकी Revolution.
On July 4, 1776, delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously जारी the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, जिससे स्थापित the United States of America.
The American Revolutionary War, जिससे ended साथ the मान्यता of स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, थी the first successful war of independence against a European colonial empire.
The current Constitution was अपनाया on सितंबर 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven amendments have चूंकि been added to the Constitution.
The first ten amendments, collectively नामित the विधेयक of अधिकारों, यहूद ratified in 1791 और गारंटी अनेक आधारभूत सिविल rights and freedoms.
Driven by the doctrine of manifest नियति, the संयुक्त राज्य embarked on a vigorous विस्तार आरपार North America throughout the 19th century.
This involved displacing native tribes, acquiring new territories, और धीरे admitting नई राज्य.
The American Civil War ended legalized गुलामी in the संयुक्त States.
By the end of the nineteenth सदी, the संयुक्त राज्य विस्तारित into the प्रशांत समंदर, और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था थी the संसार 's largest.
The Spanish–American War and पुष्टि the देश 's औकात as a वैश्विक सैन्य शक्ति.
The United States emerged इससे as a वैश्विक महाशक्ति, the पहला देश साथ नाभिकीय हथियार, and a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
The end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the सोवियत संघ बाएँ the संयुक्त राज्य as the sole superpower.
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest national economy, with an अनुमानित 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 खरब 19 % of वैश्विक जीडीपी at purchasing-power parity, as of 2011.
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010, हालांकि अमेरिका 's माल असमानता थी भी क्रमित उच्चतम among oecd देशों by the World Bank.
The economy is fueled by an प्रचुरता of प्राकृतिक संसाधन, a well-developed अवसंरचना, और ऊँची उत्पादकता ; और जबकि its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers.
The country accounts for 39 % of global military spending, and is a leading economic, political, and cultural force in the संसार, as खूब as a नेता in वैज्ञानिक शोध और technological नवीनता.
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each spring in the United States, currently featuring 68 कॉलेज बास्केट टीमों, to determine the नेशनल चैंपियनशिप of the प्रमुख कॉलेज basketball teams.
The tournament, organized by the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक संघ ( ncaa ), थी निर्मित दौरान 1939 by the नेशनल संघ of Basketball Coaches, and was the idea of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen.
Played mostly during कूच, it is ज्ञात informally as कूच दीवानगी or the बिग नृत्य, और रै become एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध सालाना sporting events in the United States.
The NCAA has credited Bob Walsh of the Seattle आयोजन कमेटी लिये starting the कूच दीवानगी जश्न दौरान 1984.
The tournament teams शामिल champions इससे 31 प्रभाग i सम्मेलनों ( जिससे प्राप्त स्वचालित बोलियों ), और 37 टीमों जिससे are awarded at-large berths.
These `` at-large '' टीमों हैं चुनी by an ncaa चयन कमेटी, as detailed below.
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and व्यवस्थित into a सिंगल विलोपन `` कोष्ठक '', जिससे predetermines, जब a टोली wins a game, which team it will face next.
Each team is `` seeded '', or क्रमित, भीतर its region.
After an initial four games between eight lower-ranked टीमों, the टूर्नामेंट occurs दौरान the कोर्स of तीन सप्ताहांत, at pre-selected न्यूट्रल साइट around the संयुक्त States.
Lower-ranked teams हैं लगाई in the कोष्ठक विरूद्ध उच्चतर क्रमित teams.
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams, from a round of 64, to a `` Sweet Sixteen '', and लिये the पिछला वीकेंड of the टूर्नामेंट a फाइनल चार ; the फाइनल चार is प्रायः निभाई दौरान the पहला वीकेंड of अप्रैल.
These four teams, one इससे प्रत्येक प्रदेश, तब compete in एक स्थान लिये the national championship.
The tournament has महरूम at तनिक partially televised चूंकि 1969.
Presently, the खेल हैं reported by सीबीएस, tbs, टीएनटी, and truTV by the trade-name NCAA March Madness.
चूंकि 2011, सब खेल are available for viewing nationwide.
As टेलीविज़न कवरेज रै grown, so too has the tournament 's popularity.
Presently, लाखो of अमेरिकी `` भरण आउट a कोष्ठक '', predicting winners of all 67 games.
साथ 11 नेशनल शीर्षक, ucla रै the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे ncaa मेन 's Division I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles.
The विश्वविद्यालयों of केंटकी is दूसरी, साथ 8 नेशनल शीर्षक, जबकि इंडियाना University and the University of North Carolina are tied for third with 5 national titles.
Duke University बाँधने पांचवां साथ 4 नेशनल शीर्षक.
A नमूना of सिंथेटिक motor oil
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of chemical compounds कि हैं artificially बना ( synthesized ).
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically परिवर्धित पेट्रोलियम components बल्कि than पूरे crude आयल, लकिन can भी be synthesized इससे अन्य कच्चा सामग्री.
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from पेट्रोलियम जब ऑपरेटिंग in extremes of तापमान, क्युकी, in सामान्य, it provides श्रेष्ठ mechanical और रासायनिक गुण than those found in traditional mineral oils.
Aircraft jet engines, लिये उदाहरण, आवश्यकता the उपयोग of सिंथेटिक oils, whereas aircraft piston engines do not.
Jackass is an American reality series, originally shown on MTV from 2000 to 2002, featuring लोगों performing विभिन्न खतरनाक, crude self-injuring स्टंट और pranks.
The show served as a launchpad लिये the टेलीविज़न और एक्टिंग करियर of bam margera, steve-o, और भी जॉनी knoxville, who previously had only a few minor acting roles.
Since 2002, three Jackass films have been produced and released by MTV corporate सहोदर सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें, continuing the मताधिकार बाद इसके चलाएं on टेलीविज़न.
The show sparked several spin-offs including Viva La Bam, wildboyz, homewrecker, dr. steve-o और blastazoid.
the दिखाएँ लगाई # 68 on entertainment Weekly `` New TV Classics '' list.
roseanne cherrie barr ( born नवम्बर 3, 1952 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, comedienne, लेखक, टेलीविज़न निर्माता, निदेशक, and 2012 presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party.
Barr began her career in stand-up comedy at clubs पहले gaining कीर्ति लिये उसके भूमिका in the sitcom roseanne.
The show was a hit and lasted नौ सीज़न, from 1988 to 1997.
She won both an एमी और a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री for her work on the show.
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class घरेलू देवी '' persona in the आठ सालो preceding उसके sitcom और चाही to do a यथार्थवादी दिखाएँ about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism.
The granddaughter of आप्रवासियों इससे यूरोपीय और रूस, barr थी the oldest of चार children in a working-class यहूदी नमक झील नगर family ; she was also active in the LDS Church.
In 1974, she married Bill Pentland, with whom she had तीन children, पहले divorcing in 1990 और marrying हास्य tom अर्नाल्ड लिये four years.
Controversy arose when she sang `` The Star-Spangled ध्वज `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired बेसबॉल खेल, followed by grabbing उसके crotch और spitting.
After her sitcom ended, वो शुभारम्भ उसके अपना बात दिखाएँ, the roseanne दिखाएँ, जिससे aired from 1998 to 2000.
In 2005, वो लौटे to stand-up कॉमेडी with a world tour.
in 2011, वो स्ट्रक्चर in an unscripted tv दिखाएँ, roseanne 's nuts, कि lasted इससे जुलाई to September of that year, about her life on a Hawaiian farm.
In early 2012, Barr announced her उम्मीदवारी लिये the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन of the ग्रीन पार्टी.
barr खोया the नामांकन to Jill Stein.
She then sought the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन of the सलाम और स्वतंत्रता पार्टी, which she won on August 4, 2012.
Barr received 61,971 votes in the सामान्य चुनाव, रखकर छठे overall.
francesco albani 's 17th सदी Baptism of Christ is a typical depiction with the sky opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove.
The बपतिस्मा of यीशु marks the शुरूआत of his public ministry.
This event is recorded in the canonical gospels of मैथ्यू, चिह्नित और ल्यूक.
John 's gospel does not describe यीशु ' बपतिस्मा, लकिन जॉन the बैपटिस्ट करता गवाही of the अन्य things in.
In the New वसीयत, जॉन the बैपटिस्ट preached the बपतिस्मा of तौबा लिये the remission of पापों ( ), और घोषित खुद a forerunner of he that would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ).
In so doing he was preparing the रास्ता लिये यीशु.
Jesus आए to the जॉर्डन नदी जहाँ he was baptized by John.
The baptismal झाँकी शामिल the आकाश खोलने, a dove-like descent of the पावन स्पिरिट, और a आवाज़ इससे स्वर्ग saying, `` This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. ''
Most modern विद्वानों दृश्य the फैक्ट कि यीशु थी baptized by जॉन as an ऐतिहासिक इवेंट to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned.
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most विद्वानों दृश्य it as एक of the दो historically निश्चित तथ्य परिचय उसे, और प्रायः उपयोग it as the starting अंक लिये the study of the historical Jesus.
The baptism is one of the five major milestones in the gospel कथा of the जीवन of यीशु, the अन्य होने the बासीलीक, crucifixion, क़यामत, and Ascension.
Most ईसाई denominations दृश्य the बपतिस्मा of यीशु as an महत्वपूर्ण इवेंट और a basis for the Christian rite of baptism ( see also ).
In पूर्वी christianity, यीशु ' बपतिस्मा is commemorated on 6 जनवरी, the feast of Epiphany.
In the Roman Catholic गिरिजाघर, the anglican नियाज़, the लूथरन चर्च और कुछ अन्य पश्चिमी denominations, it is recalled on a day within the following week, the feast of the baptism of the Lord.
In Roman catholicism, the बपतिस्मा of यीशु is एक of the चमकदार Mysteries sometimes added to the Rosary.
It is a trinitarian feast in the पूर्वी परंपरागत Churches.
Methylcobalamin ( दिखाया ) is a रूप of विटामिन b12.
Physically it resembles the अन्य फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन b12, occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals कि freely रूप cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the दिमाग और बेचैन प्रणाली, और for the formation of blood.
it is एक of the eight B vitamins.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the इंसान देह, विशेषकर affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण और विनियमन, लकिन भी वसीय एसिड synthesis and energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor animals are सक्षम of producing विटामिन b12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its संश्लेषण, हालांकि अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of b12 क्युकी of बैक्टीरियल symbiosis.
The विटामिन is the largest और सबसे structurally जटिल विटामिन और can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ), सब of जिससे have विटामिन कार्यकलाप.
it contains the biochemically विरल element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the मौलिक ढांचा of the विटामिन is संपन्नता तभी by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन परिवर्तन between अलग फ़ॉर्म of the विटामिन can be संपन्नता in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति, लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ and supplements, and as a food additive, because of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the इंसान physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving पीछे the साइनाइड, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in अधिक महंगी pharmacological products and food supplements.
The extra utility of ये is फिलहाल debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal कोशिकाएं of the पेट जिम्मेदार लिये secreting मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर हैं नष्ट.
मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर is निर्णायक लिये the सामान्य अवशोषण of b12, so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर, as देखी in घातक anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of विटामिन b12 कमियां और उनके biochemical प्रभाव have चूंकि महरूम elucidated.
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 युद्ध फिल्मी उत्पादित, निर्देशित और co-written by Stanley Kubrick.
It is an adaptation of Gustav hasford 's 1979 अनोखा the short-timers और सितारों मैथ्यू modine, विंसेंट d'onofrio, R. ली ermey, arliss हावर्ड, और Adam Baldwin.
The film follows a platoon of u.S. marines through उनके प्रशिक्षण और the अनुभवों of two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War.
The film 's शीर्षक refers to the पूरा मेटल जैकेट गोली प्रयुक्त by infantry riflemen.
the फिल्मी प्राप्त critical acclaim.
It received an Academy Award nomination for बेहतरीन adapted पटकथा लिये kubrick, माइकल हेर और गुस्ताव hasford.
In 2001, the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान लगाई पूरा मेटल जैकेट at # 95 in उनके `` एएफआई 's 100 Years... 100 Thrills `` poll.
TMZ is a celebrity news website कि debuted on नवम्बर 8, 2005.
It was a collaboration between AOL and telepictures प्रोडक्शन्स, a प्रभाग of warner भाईs., जबतक समय warner divested AOL in 2009.
However, it remained संबद्ध साथ एओएल न्यूज और रै the एओएल न्यूज लोगो affixed in the upper right corner.
The name TMZ stands for the historic `` studio zone `` or 30-mile मण्डल दायरा इससे the चौराहे of वेस्ट बेवर्ली boulevard और उत्तर la cienega boulevard in लॉस एंजिल्स.
TMZ 's managing editor is Harvey Levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist जो थी previously a विधिक विशेषज्ञ लिये the लॉस Angeles television station KCBS-TV.
The साईट दावा कि it करता नहीं अदा लिये कहानियां or साक्षात्कार ; however, levin has admitted that TMZ does `` sometimes pay sources for leads on stories ''.
Levin रै stated कि `` सबकुछ is शोधकार्य और vetted for accuracy. ''
A companion tv श्रेणी, tmz on tv, debuted on September 10, 2007.
Scream 3 is a 2000 अमरीकी slasher फिल्मी निर्मित by केविन विलियमसन, निर्देशित by वेस craven और लिखा by Ehren Kruger, starring Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette.
It was released on February 4, 2000 as the तीसरा किश्त in the चीख फिल्मी श्रेणी.
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and follows Sidney प्रेस्कॉट ( कैम्पबेल ) जो रै गए into self-imposed अलगाव following the कार्यक्रम of the पिछला दो films लकिन is drawn to हॉलीवुड बाद a नई ghostface begins हत्या the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 ''.
Scream 3 combines the violence of the slasher विधा साथ कॉमेडी और `` whodunit `` रहस्य जबकि satirizing the cliché of film trilogies.
Unlike the previous चीख films, वहीँ थी an increased जोर on comedic तत्व और the हिंसा और हॉरर थी घटाया in जवाब to increased public scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine High School massacre.
The film was the concluding अध्याय of the चीख श्रेणी जबतक it थी revived साथ a sequel, चीख 4, in 2011.
विलियमसन provided a five-page रूपरेखा लिये दो सिक्वेल to चीख जब auctioning उसके असली स्क्रिप्ट, उम्मीद to entice bidders साथ the संभावित of buying a franchise.
Williamson 's commitments to अन्य प्रोजेक्ट meant he थी असमर्थ to develop a पूरा स्क्रिप्ट लिये चीख 3 और लिखने कर्तव्य यहूद undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded much of Williamson 's notes.
Craven and Marco Beltrami लौटे to सीधा और स्कोर the फिल्मी क्रमशः as वे था साथ the पिछला दो series entries.
Production was troubled साथ स्क्रिप्ट rewrites, साथ पृष्ठों sometimes तभी तैयार on the दिन of फिल्मांकन, and scheduling difficulties with the main cast.
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically worse than its preceding films, कमाई over $ 161 लाख और साथ अनेक आलोचकों claiming कि the फिल्मी था become कया चीख originally `` spoofed ``.
Despite negative criticism the film did प्राप्त तारीफ़ साथ reviewers कॉलिंग it the पूर्ण समाप्त to the चीख त्रयी.
As of 2012, the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर अमेरिका, following चीख at क्रमांक 1 और चीख 2 at क्रमांक 2.
The film 's soundtrack was well-received, बिता चौदह सप्ताह on the बिलबोर्ड 200 और reaching a ऊँची of # 32.
Shoulder impingement syndrome, also called painful arc सिंड्रोम, supraspinatus सिंड्रोम, तैराक 's कंधे, और thrower 's कंधे, is a नैदानिक सिंड्रोम जिससे occurs जब the tendons of the rotator कफ मांसपेशियां become irritated और inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space, the passage beneath the acromion.
This can result in pain, weakness और घाटा of गति at the कंधे.
JLA was a monthly comic book published by DC Comics इससे जनवरी 1997 to अप्रैल 2006 featuring the इंसाफ लीग.
The colonial history of the United States covers the history of यूरोपीय settlements इससे the प्रारंभ of colonization of अमेरिका until their incorporation into the United States.
In the late 16th century, England, France, Spain and the नीदरलैंड्स शुभारम्भ प्रमुख colonization कार्यक्रम in पूर्वी North America.
Small early attempts—such as the अंग्रेज़ी खोया उपनिवेश of roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the मौत रेट of the first arrivals was very high.
nevertheless कामयाब colonies यहूद established.
European settlers came from a variety of सोशल और धार्मिक समूह.
No aristocrats settled permanently, लकिन a क्रमांक of adventurers, सैनिको, farmers, and tradesmen arrived.
Diversity was an American characteristic as the डच of नई netherland, the swedes और finns of नई स्वीडन, the अंग्रेज़ी quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया, the अंग्रेज़ी puritans of नई इंग्लैण्ड, the अंग्रेज़ी settlers of Jamestown, and the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia, came to the new continent and built colonies with distinctive social, religious, political and economic styles.
occasionally एक उपनिवेश took कंट्रोल of another ( दौरान युद्धों between उनके European parents ).
Only in Nova Scotia ( अभी भाग of कनाडा ) किया the conquerors निकाल the previous colonists.
Instead they all lived पक्ष by पक्ष in सलाम.
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies, and the दो मुख्य हथियारबंद विद्रोहों ( in वर्जिनिया in 1676 और in नई यॉर्क in 1689–91 ) यहूद short-lived असफलताओं.
Wars between the French और the british—the फ्रेंच और भारतीय युद्धों और पिता rale 's युद्ध —were तूल, और शामिल french-support लिये Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers.
By 1760 फ़्रांस थी पराजित और the अंग्रेजों जब्त इसके colonies.
The four distinct regions यहूद : नई इंग्लैण्ड, the मध्य colonies, the chesapeake खाड़ी colonies ( Upper South ) and the Lower South.
Some इतिहासकारों add a पांचवां प्रदेश, the frontier, जिससे थी never separately organized.
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the majority of the देशी अमेरिकी जीना in the पूर्वी संयुक्त राज्य था महरूम decimated by नई रोगों, introduced to them decades before by explorers and sailors.
See timeline of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका लिये सूची of ऐतिहासिक events.
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born February 20, 1924 ) is an अमरीकी कलाकार, लेखक, अभिनेत्री, heiress, और socialite सबसे विख्यात as an जल्दी डेवलपर of designer blue jeans.
She is a member of the prominent वेंडरबिल्ट परिवार of नई यॉर्क और the माँ of सीएनएन 's एंडरसन Cooper.
Greece ( Romanization of Greek| ), officially the हैलेनिक गणतंत्र ( ' ), is a country in Southeast Europe.
According to the 2011 census, यूनानियों 's जनसांख्यिकी is around 11 million.
Athens is the स्वदेश 's पूंजी और largest नगर, इसके शहरी area also including Piraeus.
Greece is रणनीतिक स्तिथ at the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय, एशिया, the मध्य ईस्ट, और अफ़्रीकी, और रै जमीन सीमायें साथ अल्बानियाई, the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north, and Turkey to the northeast.
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of मेनलैंड यूनानियों, the आयोनियन समुद्र to the वेस्ट, और the भूमध्यसागरीय Sea to the south.
Greece has the 11th longest coastline in the world at in लंबाई, featuring a विशाल क्रमांक of आइलैंड्स ( लगभग 1,400, of जिससे 227 हैं inhabited ), सहित क्रेट, the dodecanese, the cyclades, और the आयोनियन Islands among others.
Eighty percent of Greece consists of kyu, of जिससे माउंट ओलम्पस is the highest at.
Modern Greece traces इसके जड़ें to the सभ्यता of प्राचीन यूनानियों, generally considered the cradle of Western civilization.
As such, it is the birthplace of democracy, Western philosophy, the Olympic Games, Western literature and historiography, राजनैतिक विज्ञान, प्रमुख वैज्ञानिक और गणितीय सिद्धान्त, and Western drama, including both tragedy and comedy.
This legacy is partly reflected in the सत्रह युनेस्को संसार विरासत साइट स्तिथ in यूनानियों, रैंकिंग it 7th in यूरोपीय और 13th in the world.
The modern Greek state थी स्थापित in 1830, following the यूनानी युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता.
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations, has been a member of कया is अभी the यूरोपीय संघ चूंकि 1981 ( और the eurozone चूंकि 2001 ), और रै महरूम a member of NATO since 1952.
यूनानियों is a विकसित देश साथ an उन्नत, high-income अर्थव्यवस्था और बहुत ऊँची मानकों of living, including the world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010.
Greece 's economy is also the largest in the balkans, जहाँ यूनानियों is an महत्वपूर्ण क्षेत्रीय investor.
A prime meridian is a मध्याह्न, i.e. a लकीर of देशांतर, at जिससे देशांतर is पारिभाषित to be 0°.
A प्रधान मध्याह्न और इसके विपरीत in a 360°-system, the 180th meridian ( at 180° longitude ), form a great circle.
This ग्रेट वृत्त divides the गोला, e.g. the Earth, into two hemispheres.
If one uses directions of East and वेस्ट इससे a पारिभाषित प्रधान मध्याह्न, तब वे can be called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere.
gerardus मर्केटर in उसके एटलस cosmographicae ( 1595 ) उपयोग a प्रधान मध्याह्न कही बंद to 25°w, गुजर just to the west of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic.
His 180th meridian runs साथ the जलसन्धि of anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary, नापसंद an equator, जिससे is संकल्पित by the अक्ष of rotation—and विभिन्न प्रथाओं have महरूम used or advocated in different regions and throughout history.
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born minka dumont dufay ; जून 24, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी actress.
वो is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ in चार्ली 's फ़रिश्ते, शुक्रवार रात्रि Lights, and The Roommate.
R.O.B. ( Robotic ऑपरेटिंग दोस्त ), released in जापानी as the, is an accessory for the Nintendo Entertainment System ( NES ).
It was released in July 1985 in जापानी और बाद कि साल in उत्तर अमेरिका.
It had a short उत्पाद जीवनकाल, साथ support लिये तभी दो खेल जिससे comprised the `` Robot Series '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up.
R.O.B. was released with the intention of portraying the निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली as कुछ अनोखा in अनुक्रम to alleviate retail fears following the video game crash of 1983.
R.O.B. was उपलब्धियाँ in the डीलक्स नियत, a विन्यास लिये the कंसोल कि शामिल, among other things, R.O.B. and Gyromite.
Stack-Up थी खरीदा separately और शामिल इसके own physical game pieces.
The Walking Liberty half डालर थी a चांदी 50-cent टुकड़ा or हाफ डालर सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य मिंट इससे 1916 to 1947 ; it थी designed by एडाल्फ A. Weinman.
In 1915, the new Mint Director, Robert W. Woolley, came to believe that he थी नहीं तभी अनुमत लकिन जरूरी by विधि to बदलें सिक्का डिजाइन कि था महरूम in उपयोग लिये 25 सालो.
He therefore began the process of replacing the Barber coinage : dimes, quarters और हाफ डॉलर, सब bearing समान डिजाइन by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber, and first struck in 1892.
Woolley had the Commission of Fine Arts conduct a प्रतियोगिता, as a परिणाम of जिससे weinman थी चयनित to डिज़ाइन the dime और हाफ डालर.
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the सूर्य लिये the हाफ डालर proved मुश्किल to पूर्ण, और राजकोष सचिव विलियम G. mcadoo, जिनकी विभाग included the Mint, considered having Barber create his own design.
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's design into उत्पादन, हालांकि it never struck बहुत खूब, जिससे may have महरूम a फ़ैक्टर in इसके बदलना by the Franklin half dollar beginning in 1948.
Nevertheless, art historian Cornelius vermeule माना the टुकड़ा to be among the सबसे खूबसूरत US coins.
Since 1986, a modification of Weinman 's obverse डिज़ाइन रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी चांदी त्रिभुज.
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size खेल यूटिलिटी गाडी ( एसयूवी ) उत्पादित by the जापानी निर्माता टोयोटा और बेची throughout the world from 1984 to present.
In Japan it was ज्ञात as the टोयोटा hilux लहरे.
The original 4runner थी a कॉम्पैक्ट एसयूवी और छोटी अधिक than a टोयोटा पिकअप ट्रक साथ a fiberglass शेल over the bed, लकिन the मॉडल रै चूंकि undergone significant स्वतंत्र विकास into a cross between a compact and a mid-size SUV.
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's tahara संयंत्र in tahara, aichi, जापानी, or at hino मोटर्स ' hamura, जापानी संयंत्र, and in Brazil.
Its mid-size crossover SUV बंटवारा is the टोयोटा highlander.
इस आलेख सौदे साथ आयुर्विज्ञान as practiced by trained professionals from ancient times to the present.
the प्राचीन उन्होंने था a प्रणाली of आयुर्विज्ञान कि थी बहुत उन्नत लिये इसके time and influenced later medical traditions.
The Egyptians and Babylonians both introduced the अवधारणाओं of निदान, prognosis, और चिकित्सा परिक्षा.
The Greeks went even further, और उन्नत as खूब चिकित्सा ethics.
The Hippocratic Oath, स्टिल लिया by डॉक्टर आज, थी लिखा in यूनानियों in the 5th century BCE.
In the मध्यकालीन era, सर्जिकल practices inherited इससे the प्राचीन मास्टर्स यहूद improved और तब systematized in Rogerius 's The Practice of Surgery.
विश्वविद्यालयों began व्यवस्थित प्रशिक्षण of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy.
दौरान the पुनर्जागरण, समझना of anatomy improved, and the microscope was invented.
The germ theory of disease in the 19th सदी led to cures लिये अनेक संक्रामक रोगों.
Military डॉक्टर उन्नत the विधि of आघात उपचार and surgery.
Public health measures were developed especially in the 19th century as the रैपिड विकास of शहरों जरूरी व्यवस्थित sanitary measures.
उन्नत शोध centers खोली in the जल्दी 20th century, often connected with major hospitals.
The mid-20th सदी थी characterized by नई biological treatments, such as antibiotics.
These advancements, along साथ developments in रसायन, आनुवंशिकी, और lab प्रौद्योगिकी ( such as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine.
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th सदी, और नई करियर opened to women as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ).
The 21st सदी is characterized by बहुत उन्नत शोध involving numerous fields of science.
The Hippocratic Corpus, is a संग्रहण of जल्दी चिकित्सा works इससे प्राचीन यूनानियों strongly संबद्ध साथ the प्राचीन Greek physician Hippocrates and his teachings.
पोटैशियम is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक k ( इससे neo-latin kalium ) and atomic number 19.
elemental पोटैशियम is a नरम silvery-white क्षारीय मेटल कि oxidizes rapidly in एयर और is बहुत प्रतिक्रिया साथ जल, generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.
Because potassium और सोडियम हैं chemically बहुत समान, उनके लवण were not at first differentiated.
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702, और इस थी सिद्ध in 1807 जब पोटैशियम और सोडियम यहूद individually पृथक इससे अलग लवण by electrolysis.
पोटैशियम in प्रकृति occurs only in ionic salts.
As such, it is found dissolved in seawater ( जिससे is 0.04 % पोटैशियम by वज़न ), और is भाग of many minerals.
Most industrial chemical applications of पोटैशियम employ the अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची घुलनशीलता in जल of पोटैशियम यौगिकों, ऐसे as potassium soaps.
Potassium मेटल रै तभी a few खास अनुप्रयोग, होने replaced in most chemical reactions with sodium metal.
Potassium ions are जरुरी लिये the फलन of सब जीना कोशिकाएं.
पोटैशियम आयन diffusion is a कुंजी यांत्रिकी in तंत्रिका हस्तांतरण, और पोटैशियम depletion in पशु, including humans, results in various cardiac dysfunctions.
Potassium accumulates in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं, और यूँ भैस फल और सब्जियां हैं a good dietary source of it.
Conversely, most plants except विशेषज्ञ halophytes हैं असहिष्णु of नमक, और सोडियम is उपस्थित in उन्हें तभी in low concentration.
This resulted in पोटैशियम पहला होने पृथक इससे potash, the ashes of plants, giving the element its name.
For the वही कारण, भारी क्रॉप उत्पादन rapidly depletes soils of पोटैशियम, and agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of global potassium chemical production.
the सिंगापुर डालर or डालर ( चिह्न : $ ; कोड : sgd ) is the official currency of Singapore.
It is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $, or alternatively s $ to फर्क it इससे other dollar -denominated currencies.
It is विभाजित into 100 cents.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board स्टिल maintain the ऐतिहासिक exchangeability of उनके दो मुद्राएँ, the singaporean डालर और the ब्रुनेई डालर, क्रमशः.
The dollar is accepted as `` प्रथागत टेंडर '' in ब्रुनेई according to the करेंसी interchangeability Agreement.
Likewise, the ब्रुनेई डालर is customarily स्वीकृत in सिंगापुर
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12, 1926 – कूच 25, 1995 ) थी an अमरीकी समाजशास्त्री, theorist और अनुभवजन्य शोधकर्ता, based chiefly at the University of Chicago.
He was elected अध्यक्ष of the अमरीकी समाजशास्त्रीय संघ.
Coleman studied the समाजशास्त्र of शिक्षा, पब्लिक नीति, और थी एक of the earliest users of the term `` social capital ``.
His Foundations of सोशल सिद्धान्त बहकावे समाजशास्त्रीय theory.
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( Equality of शैक्षणिक अवसर, 1966 ) यहूद दो of the सबसे heavily cited किताबे in शैक्षणिक समाजशास्त्र.
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational सिद्धान्त, reshape नेशनल शिक्षा नीतियों, और बहकावे पब्लिक और scholarly राय regarding the भूमिका of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the United States.
Superman ( from DC कॉमिक्स ) थी the पहला सुपरहीरो निर्मित, art by Jim Lee.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super hero ) is a type of stock character possessing `` असाधारण or superhuman शक्तियां '' और समर्पित to protecting the public.
Since the debut of the prototypical सुपरहीरो सुपरमैन in 1938, कहानियां of superheroes—ranging इससे ब्रैड episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media.
The शब्द itself तिथियाँ to at तनिक 1917.
A मादा सुपरहीरो is sometimes पुकारा a superheroine ( भी rendered super-heroine or super heroine ).
`` SUPER HEROES '' is a ट्रेडमार्क co-owned by dc कॉमिक्स और आश्चर्य Comics.
By most definitions, characters do not strictly require actual superhuman powers to be deemed superheroes, हालांकि शर्तें ऐसे as costumed अपराधों सेनानी or नकाबपोश vigilantes हैं sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to those ऐसे as बैटमैन और ग्रीन तीर बगैर ऐसे शक्तियां जो share अन्य आम superhero traits.
Such characters were generally referred to as `` रहस्य मेन '' in the so-called सुनहरी आयु of Comic Books to distinguish them from characters with super-powers.
Normally, superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while also combating खतरे विरूद्ध मानवता by supervillains, उनके दण्ड counterparts.
Often, one of these supervillains होगा be the सुपरहीरो 's archenemy.
As well, some longrunning superheroes, such as Superman, Batman, spider-man और आयरन man प्रत्येक रै a rogues gallery of enemies.
As well, superheroes sometimes will combat such irregular खतरे as एलियंस, magical/ काल्पनिक entities, अमरीकी युद्ध दुश्मनों ऐसे as नात्सीवाद or communism, and godlike or demonic creatures.
The following is a historical list of actors और प्राथमिक अक्षर भूमिकाएँ जिससे appear on the अमरीकी साबुन ओपेरा One Life to Live.
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 अमरीकी नाटक फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by फ़्रैंक darabont और अभिनीत टिम रॉबिन्स and Morgan Freeman.
adapted इससे the स्टीफन किंग novella रीता hayworth और shawshank मोचन, the फिल्मी tells the स्टोरी of एंडी dufresne, a बैंकर जो खर्च nearly दो decades in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.
During his समय at the थाना, he befriends a fellow inmate, ellis boyd `` रेड '' Redding, and finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him in his money laundering operation.
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped इसके बजट, the फिल्मी प्राप्त अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, अनेक पुरस्कार nominations, और रै चूंकि enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.
It was शामिल in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's 100 सालो... 100 फिल्मों 10th वर्षगांठ Edition.
IT प्रबन्धन is the अनुशासन whereby सब of the प्रौद्योगिकी संसाधन of a कड़ हैं प्रबंधित in accordance with its needs and priorities.
These resources may include tangible investments like computer hardware, तन्त्र, आंकड़ा, संजाल और आंकड़ा केन्द्र सुविधाएं, as खूब as the staffs जो हैं नियुक्त to maintain उन्हें.
मैनेजिंग इस जिम्मेदारी भीतर a कम्पनी entails अनेक of the मौलिक प्रबन्धन कृत्यों, जैसे budgeting, स्टॉफ, और आयोजन और controlling, साथ साथ अन्य पहलुओं कि हैं अद्वितीय to प्रौद्योगिकी, like change management, software design, network planning, tech support etc.
The Penitentiary of नई मैक्सिको थाना riot, जिससे took प्लेस on फ़रवरी 2 और 3, 1980, in the राज्य 's अधिकतम सुरक्षा थाना दक्षिण of सांता fe, थी एक of the सबसे हिंसक थाना दंगे in the history of the American correctional system : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries.
None of the 12 officers taken बंधक यहूद मारे, लकिन सात यहूद treated लिये चोटों caused by beatings और rapes.
This was the तीसरा प्रमुख riot at the nm राज्य penitentiary, the पहला occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15 June 1953.
Author रोजर मॉरिस suggests the मौत टोल may have महरूम उच्चतर, as a क्रमांक of लाशें यहूद incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem.
`` Red कार्डिनल '' redirects here.
For the plant Erythrina herbacea, देखिए मूँगा सेम.
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North अमरीकी बर्ड in the genus cardinalis ; it is भी ज्ञात colloquially as the redbird or आम कार्डिनल.
It can be found in southern कनाडा, through the पूर्वी संयुक्त राज्य इससे maine to टेक्सास और दक्षिण through Mexico.
It is मिला in वुडलैंड्स, gardens, shrublands, and swamps.
The Northern Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird साथ a देह लंबाई of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ).
It has a distinctive crest on the सिर और a मुखौटा on the फेस जिससे is ब्लैक in the पुरूष और धूसर in the female.
The male is a हर्षोल्लास रेड, जबकि the मादा is a dull red-brown shade.
The Northern कार्डिनल is मुख्यतः granivorous, but also feeds on insects and fruit.
The male behaves territorially, अंकन आउट उसके territory with song.
During प्रेमालाप, the पुरूष feeds seed to the female beak-to-beak.
A clutch of three to four अंडे is रखी, और दो to चार चंगुल हैं उत्पादित each year.
It was once prized as a पालतु, लकिन इसके बिक्री as पिंजरा पक्षियों is अभी बैन in the संयुक्त राज्य by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918.
Surface runoff, also called nonpoint source प्रदूषण, इससे a फार्म फ़ील्ड in आयोवा दौरान a बरसात तूफ़ान.
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and अन्य संभावित प्रदूषक चलाएं बंद unprotected फार्म फ़ील्ड जब भारी rains occur.
Topsoil is the upper, outermost परत of मृदा, प्रायः the शीर्ष to.
It has the highest concentration of सशुल्क पदार्थ और microorganisms और is जहाँ सबसे of the धरती 's biological soil activity occurs.
musical cryptogram : `` aschbeg '' नियत in schoenberg 's sechs kleine Klavierstücke, Op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
Note that the टीप do नहीं आइये in स्पेलिंग अनुक्रम लकिन are all adjacent ( not separated by other notes ).
Sechs kleine klavierstücke, op. 19 ( or छह छोटी पियानो टुकड़े ) is a नियत of टुकड़े लिये सोलो पियानो लिखा by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg, published in 1913.
McAfee, Inc. ( ) is an American global computer सुरक्षा तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered in सांता क्लारा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, and the world 's largest dedicated security technology company.
As of फ़रवरी 28, 2011, मैक्एफ़ी is a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel.
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus industry are Avira, BitDefender, BullGuard, f-secure, frisk, kaspersky, symantec, और ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म to नाम a few.
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita lotti 1381 - may 22, 1457 ) थी an इतालवी augustinian नन, विधवा और संत venerated in the Roman Catholic Church.
Rita was शादीशुदा at an जल्दी आयु.
The marriage lasted for 18 years, दौरान जिससे वो is remembered लिये उसके ईसाई मान as a मॉडल बीवी और mother who made efforts to convert her husband from his abusive behavior.
Upon the murder of her husband by another feuding परिवार, वो sought to dissuade उसके बेटे इससे revenge.
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of धार्मिक बहनों, जहाँ वो थी ज्ञात लिये practicing mortification of the flesh, along with the apparent efficacy of her prayers.
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession, and is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on her माथे, जिससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर दावा to have महरूम a आंशिक stigmata.
The Roman Catholic Church, under the pontificate of पोप leo xiii officially canonized रीता on may 24, 1900, जबकि उसके feast day is celebrated every May 22.
In अनेक परहेज़गारों कैथोलिक देशों, रीता is ज्ञात to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning women.
North अमेरिका is a महाद्वीप wholly भीतर the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और लगभग wholly within the Western Hemisphere.
it is भी माना a उत्तरी उपमहाद्वीप of the Americas.
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean, to the east by the Atlantic समंदर, to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण by the प्रशांत समंदर, और to the southeast by दक्षिण अमेरिका और the Caribbean Sea.
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000 वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( 9,540,000 वर्गाकार मील ), परिचय 4.8 % of the ग्रह 's सतह or परिचय 16.5 % of its land area.
As of July 2008, its population was estimated at nearly 529 लाख लोगों आरपार 23 स्वतंत्र राज्य, representing about 7.5 % of the human population.
North America is the third-largest महाद्वीप in क्षेत्रफल, following एशिया और अफ़्रीकी, और the चौथी in जनसांख्यिकी बाद एशिया, अफ़्रीकी, and Europe.
The first people to live in उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद paleoindians जो began to arrive दौरान the last glacial period by crossing the Bering land bridge.
They differentiated into a number of diverse संस्कृतियों और समुदायों आरपार the महाद्वीप.
The largest and सबसे उन्नत pre-columbian सभ्यताओं in उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद the aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in Central America.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th और 17th सदियां, wiping आउट विशाल संख्याएँ of the देशी populations और beginning an era of European dominance.
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28, 1985 ), better known by उसके स्टेज नाम J. कोल, is an अमरीकी hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार और रिकार्ड निर्माता इससे fayetteville, North Carolina.
In 2009, he became the पहला कलाकार to चिह्न to jay-z 's Roc Nation label.
His long-awaited debut album, entitled Cole World : The Sideline स्टोरी, थी released on सितंबर 27, 2011.
The album debuted at number one on the us बिलबोर्ड 200, शीर्ष r & b एल्बम और शीर्ष रैप एल्बम चार्ट, selling अधिक than 218,000 in its first week.
He प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन नई Artist at the 54th Grammy Awards.
The two main characters of the series, ratchet ( सही ) और clank ( left ).
ratchet & clank is a श्रेणी of मंच video games.
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer entertainment लिये अनेक अलग प्लेस्टेशन consoles, ऐसे as प्लेस्टेशन 2 और प्लेस्टेशन 3 साथ the exclusion of आकार matters और Secret Agent Clank, which were developed by High Impact Games for the PlayStation Portable.
Every game in the series has been released for every कंसोल, as the ip is स्वामित्व by सोनी कंप्यूटर entertainment.
An animated feature film adaptation produced by Rainmaker entertainment और नाकेबंदी entertainment is अनुसूचित लिये a नाट्य रिलीज sometime in 2015.
The games take place in a विज्ञान fiction सेटिंग और follow the adventures of ratchet ( an animalistic human-like अक्षर ज्ञात as a lombax, जो is a मैकेनिक ) and Clank ( a diminutive, sentient robot ) as they travel through the universe, saving it from evil forces on a regular basis.
The series is noted for the समावेश of अनेक exotic और अद्वितीय, over the शीर्ष हथियार और डिवाइस, a concept that Insomniac Games also expanded into their other games.
A will or testament is a legal घोषणा by जिससे a व्यक्ति, the testator, names एक or अधिक व्यक्तियों to मैनेज his/her एस्टेट और provides for the transfer of his property at death.
For the devolution of property not disposed of by होगा, देखिए उत्तराधिकार और intestacy.
In the strictest sense, a `` will '' has historically been limited to real property while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of निजी प्रॉपर्टी ( यूँ giving वृद्धि to the लोकप्रिय शीर्षक of the दस्तावेज़ as `` पिछला होगा और वसीयत '' ), हालांकि इस distinction is seldom observed today.
A will may also create a testamentary विश्वास कि is प्रभावी तभी बाद the मौत of the testator.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, रौशन लाइट और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य, रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान to solving कुछ of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active solar तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors to harness the energy.
Passive सौर तकनीकों शामिल orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible और साफ सौर energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
ये लाभ are global.
Hence the अतिरिक्त लागत of the प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी spent and need to be widely shared ''.
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 14786 जुलाई 1535 ), ज्ञात to रोमन catholics as संत थामस अधिक चूंकि 1935, थी an अंग्रेज़ी वकील, सोशल पारस, author, statesman, and noted Renaissance humanist.
He was an महत्वपूर्ण पार्षद to हेनरी viii of इंग्लैण्ड और थी रब चांसलर from October 1529 to 16 May 1532.
he थी canonized by पोप पायस xi in 1935 as एक of the जल्दी शहीदो of the schism कि अलग the Church of England from Rome in the 16th century.
In 2000, Pope John Paul II घोषित उसे संरक्षक of कैथोलिक कूटनीतिज्ञों and politicians.
More थी an प्रतिद्वन्दी of the प्रोटोस्टेंट reformation, in particular of मार्टिन Luther and William Tyndale.
However, चूंकि 1980, he is भी commemorated by the गिरिजाघर of England as a reformation martyr.
More coined the word `` utopia `` – a नाम he दिया to the आदर्श और काल्पनिक द्वीप स्वदेश, the राजनैतिक प्रणाली of which he described in Utopia, published in 1516.
he opposed the किंग 's विरह इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और refused to accept उसे as परम् Head of the Church of England, a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534.
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath जरूरी by the पहला उत्तराधिकार अधिनियम, क्युकी the अधिनियम disparaged papal प्राधिकार और henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon.
In 1535, he was tried for देशद्रोह, convicted on perjured गवाही, और beheaded.
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to औसत `` शिद्दत trying भी व्यर्थ बाते '', in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation.
Intellectuals and statesmen आरपार यूरोपीय यहूद दंग by अधिक 's execution.
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul was more pure than कोई हिम, जिनकी प्रतिभाशाली थी ऐसे कि इंग्लैण्ड never था और never again होगा have its like ''.
There was a more controversial side to More 's जीवन, क्युकी he advocated the persecution और निष्पादन of Protestants who refused to recant their faith.
However, the निर्णय of इतिहास रै महरूम largely willing to forgive इस in लाइट of the टाइम्स he जिया in और उसके martyrdom in the Roman Catholic cause.
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was `` the व्यक्ति of the महानतम पुण्य इस किंगडम कभी उत्पादित '', a भावना साथ जिससे सैमुएल जॉनसन सहमत.
इतिहासकार ह्यूज trevor-roper कहा in 1977 कि अधिक थी `` the पहला ग्रेट अंग्रेज जिसको we महसूस कि we जान, the सबसे saintly of humanists, the most human of saints, the universal man of our cool northern renaissance. ''
Captain Nemo, also known as Prince Dakkar, is a fictional अक्षर invented by the फ्रेंच विज्ञान fiction लेखक जूल्स वर्न.
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels, Twenty हजार लीग अंतर्गत the समुद्र ( 1870 ) और the रहस्यमय द्वीप ( 1874 ), और makes a कैमियो रूप in वर्न 's खेल यात्रा through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
Nemo, one of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध antiheroes in fiction, is a mysterious figure.
The son of an Indian Raja, he is a scientific प्रतिभाशाली जो roams the गहराइयों of the समुद्र in उसके पनडुब्बी, the Nautilus, which was built on a deserted island.
Nemo tries to project a stern, controlled confidence, but he is चलित by a प्यास लिये प्रतिशोध और a द्वेष of साम्राज्यवाद ( particularly the British Empire ).
He is also wracked by remorse over the मौतों of उसके क्रू सदस्यों और भी by the मौतों of दुश्मन sailors.
Nemo has appeared in various adaptations of वर्न 's novels, सहित films, जहाँ he रै महरूम portrayed by a क्रमांक of different actors.
He has furthermore been adopted by other लेखक लिये समावेश in उनके novels, सबसे notably in एलन मूर 's the लीग of असाधारण सज्जनों और फिलिप José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg.
Listed below are the Major League Baseball teams with the best season won-lost रिकॉर्ड in इतिहास, as संकल्पित by जीतना प्रतिशत (.700 or बेहतर ), न्यूनतम 120 खेल निभाई.
Acoustic coupler मॉडेम
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a यंत्र कि modulates an एनालॉग वाहक सिग्नल to encode डिजिटल सूचना, और भी demodulates ऐसे a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information.
The लक्ष्य is to उपज a सिग्नल कि can be transmitted easily और decoded to reproduce the original digital data.
Modems can be used over कोई अर्थात् of transmitting एनालॉग सिग्नल, इससे लाइट emitting diodes to radio.
The most familiar example is a voice band modem that turns the digital data of a personal computer into modulated विद्युत सिग्नल in the आवाज़ आवृत्ति दायरा of a टेलीफोन channel.
These signals can be transmitted over टेलीफोन लाइनों और demodulated by another मॉडेम at the receiver side to recover the digital data.
Modems are generally classified by the amount of data they can send in a given unit of time, प्रायः expressed in बिट्स प्रति दूसरी ( bit/s, or bps ), or बाइट्स प्रति दूसरी ( B/s ).
Modems can alternatively be वर्गीकृत by उनके प्रतीक rate, measured in baud.
The baud ईकाई denotes प्रतीकों प्रति दूसरी, or the क्रमांक of times per second the modem sends a new signal.
लिये उदाहरण, the itu v.21 मानक प्रयुक्त ऑडियो आवृत्ति शिफ़्ट keying साथ दो संभावित बारंबारता corresponding to two distinct symbols ( or one bit per symbol ), to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud.
By contrast, the original ITU V.22 standard, which was able to transmit and receive four distinct प्रतीकों ( दो बिट्स प्रति प्रतीक ), संभाला 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 प्रतीकों प्रति दूसरी ( 600 baud ) using phase शिफ़्ट keying.
The घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता is a बयान अपनाया by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead वे अभी formed a नई nation—the United States of America.
John एडम्स थी a नेता in pushing लिये स्वतंत्रता, जिससे थी unanimously approved on July 2.
A committee had already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा, to be तैयार when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to चुनें थामस जेफरसन to लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of the document, which congress would edit to produce the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, अधिक than a साल बाद the outbreak of the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी War.
the नेशनल जन्मदिवस, the स्वतंत्रता दिन is मनाये on July 4, although Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4, कॉंग्रेस जारी the घोषणा of Independence in several forms.
It was initially प्रकाशित as the मुद्रित डनलप broadside कि थी widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, is प्रदर्शित at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the घोषणा थी स्वीकृत on जुलाई 4, the तिथि of its signing was August 2.
The original July 4 United States Declaration of स्वतंत्रता पाण्डुलिपि थी खोया जबकि सब अन्य नक़ल have महरूम निकला इससे this original document.
The sources and interpretation of the घोषणा have महरूम the विषय of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii, और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक और विधिक अधिकारों, सहित a सही of क्रान्ति.
Having served its original purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा थी initially उपेक्षित बाद the American Revolution.
Since then, it has come to be considered a major statement on इंसान अधिकारों, विशेषकर इसके दूसरी sentence:
We hold ये सच्चाई to be self-evident, कि सब मेन हैं निर्मित बराबर, कि वे हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable अधिकारों, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been called `` one of the best-known वाक्य in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '', containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential शब्द in अमरीकी इतिहास. ''
The passage came to represent a moral मानक to जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य should strive.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham lincoln, जो माना the घोषणा to be the न्यास of उसके राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र, और argued कि the घोषणा is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of अधिकारहीन लोगों throughout the संसार.
The अर्थव्यवस्था of ग्रीनलैंड can be characterized as छोटी, मिश्रित and vulnerable.
The present economy consists of a big public sector and comprehensive विदेशी व्यापार, जिससे रै resulted in an अर्थव्यवस्था साथ अवधि of दमदार विकास, considerable महंगाई, बेरोजगारी problems and extreme dependence on capital inflow from Denmark and use of outside, mainly Danish, skilled labor.
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the अर्थव्यवस्था is critically निर्भर upon substantial support इससे the डैनिश सरकारी, जिससे आपूर्तियाँ परिचय हाफ the revenues of the घर नियम सरकारी who in turn employ about 8,000 Greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ).
Unemployment nonetheless remains high, with the बाकी of the अर्थव्यवस्था निर्भर upon माँग लिये निर्यात of झींगा और मछली.
Hydrogen is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक h और परमाणु number 1.
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ), हाइड्रोजन is the lightest तत्व और इसके monatomic रूप ( h1 ) is the सबसे abundant रासायनिक पदार्थ, constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass.
Non- remnant stars are मुख्यतः रचित of हाइड्रोजन in इसके प्लाज्मा state.
At standard temperature and pressure, hydrogen is a colorless, गंधहीन, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, अत्यधिक combustible diatomic गैस साथ the आणविक formula H2.
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in अणुओं ऐसे as जल और सशुल्क यौगिकों क्युकी हाइड्रोजन readily forms covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements.
हाइड्रोजन plays a विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in acid-base रसायन साथ अनेक प्रतिक्रियाएँ exchanging protons between soluble molecules.
In ionic compounds, it can take a negative charge ( an anion ज्ञात as a हाइड्राइड और लिखा as h− ), or as a positively charged species H+.
The latter cation is written as though composed of a bare प्रोटॉन, लकिन in वास्तविकता, हाइड्रोजन cations in ionic यौगिकों सदा occur as more complex species.
The most common isotope of hydrogen is protium ( name rarely used, symbol 1h ) साथ a सिंगल प्रोटॉन और no neutrons.
As the simplest atom known, the हाइड्रोजन अणु रै महरूम of सैद्धांतिक उपयोग.
For example, as the तभी न्यूट्रल अणु साथ an analytic समाधान to the श्रोडिंगर समीकरण, the पढ़ाई of the energetics और संबंध of the हाइड्रोजन अणु played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics.
Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced in the जल्दी 16th सदी, via the mixing of धातुओं with acids.
in 1766–81, हेनरी कैवेंडिश थी the पहला to recognize कि हाइड्रोजन गैस थी a अलहदा पदार्थ, और कि it produces जल जब burned, a प्रॉपर्टी which later gave it its name : in Greek, hydrogen means `` water-former ''.
Industrial उत्पादन is मुख्यतः इससे the भाप reforming of प्राकृतिक गैस, और कम प्रायः इससे अधिक energy-intensive हाइड्रोजन उत्पादन methods like the electrolysis of water.
सबसे हाइड्रोजन is employed निकट इसके उत्पादन साईट, साथ the दो largest उपयोग होने चट्टान ईंधन प्रसंस्करण ( e.g., hydrocracking ) and ammonia production, mostly for the fertilizer market.
Hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle अनेक धातुओं, complicating the डिज़ाइन of pipelines और भंडार टैंक.
Unstoppable is a 2010 अमरीकी कार्रवाई थ्रिलर फिल्मी निर्देशित by टोनी स्कॉट, written by Mark Bomback, and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine.
The फिल्मी, loosely आधारित on the real-life csx 8888 घटना, tells the स्टोरी of a runaway भाड़ा train, and the two men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it.
It was Scott 's फाइनल विशेषता फिल्मी पहले उसके death in 2012.
The film was released in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा on नवम्बर 12, 2010, and in the United Kingdom on November 24, 2010.
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a `` Certified Fresh '' rating on सड़े टमाटर आधारित upon समग्र समीक्षाएँ और a दरजा of `` generally अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ '' at metacritic.
The film was मनोनीत लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Sound Editing at the 83rd Academy Awards, but lost to Inception.
in छायाचित्र, bracketing is the सामान्य तकनीक of taking several shots of the same subject using different camera settings.
Bracketing is useful and प्रायः अनुशंसित in परिस्थितियों कि मेक it मुश्किल to obtain a संतोषजनक चित्र साथ a सिंगल शॉट, विशेषकर जब a छोटी विभिन्नता in exposure parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting image.
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a सेटिंग on the कैमरा to लो अनेक bracketed गोलियाँ ( in कंट्रास्ट to the फ़ोटोग्राफ़र altering the settings by hand between each shot ).
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple shots, it is typically, लकिन नहीं सदा, प्रयुक्त लिये स्थिर विषय.
Insulated glazing ( IG ), more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane, और increasingly ट्रिपल glazing/pane ) हैं दोगुना or ट्रिपल कांच खिड़की panes अलग by an एयर or अन्य गैस भर स्पेस to reduce ऊष्मा ट्रांसफ़र across a part of the building envelope.
insulated कांच इकाई हैं manufactured साथ कांच in दायरा of मोटाई from 3 mm to 10 mm or more in special applications.
Laminated or tempered कांच may भी be प्रयुक्त as भाग of the निर्माण.
सबसे इकाई हैं manufactured साथ the वही मोटाई of कांच प्रयुक्त on दोनो panes लकिन खास अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as ध्वनिक क्षीणन or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit.
A sectioned आरेख of a फिक्स्ड insulated चमकीले ईकाई ( igu ), indicating the numbering convention used in this article.
सतह # 1 is facing बाहर, सतह # 2 is the अंदर सतह of the exterior फलक, सतह # 3 is the outside surface of the interior pane, and Surface # 4 is the inside surface of interior pane.
The window frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals हैं दिखाया in रेड ( # 7 ), the आतंरिक खुलासा is on the सही हाथ पक्ष ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed ईकाई ( a प्रमुख कारण of असामयिक विफलता ), निर्माताओं उपयोग a नियम of अंगूठा कि permits a अंतर of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit.
For example, a unit may be ordered साथ a 4 mm फलक on the exterior और a 3 mm फलक on the interior.
These विसंगतियाँ हैं अनुमत लिये architectural और cost reasons.
Other combinations can be निर्दिष्ट और उत्पादित लकिन the निर्माता may आरक्षित the सही to सीमा the पद of the वारंटी or refuse to warranty the unit altogether.
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned ईकाई हैं नामित according to the following सम्मेलन : सतह # 1 ( facing बाहर ), सतह # 2 ( अंदर of बाहर फलक ), सतह # 3 ( बाहर of अंदर फलक ) and Surface # 4 ( inside surface of inside pane ).
Applying the corresponding नामकरण लिये ट्रिपल paned इकाई परिणाम in सतहों # 1 through # 6.
The प्रदर्शन of insulating glazing can be परिवर्धित through the use of the following:
A typical installation of insulated glazing खिड़कियाँ साथ uPVC window frames.
Selenium is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक se और परमाणु number 34.
It is a nonmetal with properties that are इंटरमीडिएट between those of इसके आवधिक तालिका column-adjacent chalcogen तत्व sulfur and tellurium.
It rarely occurs in इसके elemental राज्य in प्रकृति, or as pure ore compounds.
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene अर्थ `` चंद्रमा '' ) थी खोजा in 1817 by jöns याक़ूब berzelius, जो विख्यात the समानता of the नई तत्व to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ).
Selenium is found impurely in metal sulfide ores, जहाँ it partially replaces the गंधक.
Commercially, selenium is उत्पादित as a byproduct in the शोधन of ये ores, सबसे प्रायः दौरान तांबे उत्पादन.
Minerals that are pure selenide or selenate यौगिकों हैं ज्ञात, but are rare.
The chief commercial uses for selenium आज हैं in glassmaking और in pigments.
Selenium is a सेमीकंडक्टर और is प्रयुक्त in photocells.
Uses in electronics, once महत्वपूर्ण, have महरूम ज़्यादातर supplanted by silicon semiconductor devices.
Selenium continues to be प्रयुक्त in a few प्रकार of dc शक्ति surge protectors and one type of fluorescent quantum dot.
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts, लकिन ट्रेस amounts हैं जरुरी लिये सेल्यूलर फलन in अनेक जीवों, सहित all animals.
Selenium is a component of the एंटीऑक्सीडेंट एंजाइमों glutathione peroxidase और thioredoxin reductase ( जिससे indirectly reduce निश्चित oxidized molecules in animals and some plants ).
It is also found in तीन deiodinase एंजाइमों, जिससे बदलें एक थायराइड hormone to another.
Selenium requirements in plants differ by प्रजाति, साथ कुछ पौधे requiring अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts, और अन्य apparently requiring none.
The United राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 2008 थी the 56th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election.
it थी आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 4, 2008.
Democrat Barack Obama, then the junior सीनेटर इससे इलिनोइस, पराजित रिपब्लिकन जॉन मैक्केन, the वरिष्ठ सीनेटर इससे एरिज़ोना.
As the campaign progressed, the War in Iraq and outgoing रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश था become increasingly unpopular, और the major-party उम्मीदवार भागा on a platform of change and reform.
Domestic policy and the economy eventually उभरा as the प्रमुख विषयवस्तु in the पिछला few महीने of the चुनाव अभियान बाद the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s.
Obama होता go on to जीत a निर्णायक विजय over McCain in both the electoral and popular vote.
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history, and won the लोकप्रिय और चुनावी vote by the largest हाशिया in 12 सालो, as खूब as the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय vote लिये a डेमोक्रेट in nearly a half-century.
This was the पहला u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in जिससे an अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी थी निर्वाचित, having भी महरूम the first in which an African American won the nomination of either major party.
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. इतिहास कि दोनो प्रमुख पार्टी उम्मीदवार यहूद बैठे u.s. सीनेटरों, तभी the तीसरा समय ( बाद 1920 और 1960 ) कि कोई बैठे u.s. सीनेटर थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष, और तभी the second time that the winning President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S. Senators.
This was also the first election since 1952 in जिससे neither of the प्रमुख पार्टियों ' नामांकित थी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष or Vice President.
The Sovereign Prince or राजकुमारी of मोनाको is the reigning monarch और सिर of राज्य of the Principality of Monaco.
All princes or princesses have officially लिया the नाम of the हाउस of grimaldi, लकिन have belonged to विभिन्न अन्य घरों ( goyon de matignon, polignac ) in पुरूष line.
The reigning प्रिंस is अल्बर्ट II.
Visualization of fragmentation और तब of defragmentation
In the maintenance of file systems, defragmentation is a प्रक्रम कि reduces the amount of fragmentation.
It does इस by physically आयोजन the सामग्री of the द्रव्यमान भंडार यंत्र प्रयुक्त to स्टोर फाइलें into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ).
It also attempts to create larger regions of free स्पेस using compaction to impede the वापसी of fragmentation.
Some defragmentation utilities try to रखना छोटी फाइलें भीतर a सिंगल निर्देशिका साथ, as वे हैं प्रायः accessed in sequence.
defragmentation is लाभदायक और प्रासंगिक to संचिका प्रणालियों on electromechanical disk drives.
The movement of the hard drive 's read/write heads over अलग क्षेत्रों of the डिस्क जब accessing fragmented फाइलें is धीमा, compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments.
A service-level agreement ( SLA ) is a भाग of a सेवा अनुबंध जहाँ a सेवा is formally पारिभाषित.
In practice, the term SLA is sometimes used to refer to the contracted डिलीवरी समय ( of the सेवा or performance ).
As an example, अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं होगा commonly शामिल सेवा स्तर समझौतों भीतर the शर्तें of उनके contracts with customers to define the level ( s ) of service being sold in plain language terms.
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean time between असफलताओं ( mtbf ), औसत समय to मरम्मत or औसत समय to रिकवरी ( mttr ) ; विभिन्न आंकड़ा दरों ; throughput ; जिटर ; or समान measurable details.
Union Station is a former shopping mall in Union City, जॉर्जिया, in दक्षिणपश्चिम मैट्रो अटलांटा सटा to अंतरराज्यीय 85.
After new ownership and renovations in 2006, the नाम थी बदला इससे शैनन southpark Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall.
A previous नवीकरण थी किया in the लेट 1990s.
the मॉल रै महरूम बंद चूंकि November 2010.
This map shows the contiguous United राज्य और, in insets at the निम्नतर बाएँ, the दो राज्य कि हैं not contiguous.
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the महाद्वीप of उत्तर अमेरिका कि हैं दक्षिण of कनाडा और उत्तर of मैक्सिको, प्लस the ज़िला of कोलंबिया.
The पद excludes the राज्य of अलास्का and Hawaii, and all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions, such as Puerto Rico.
Together, the 48 संलग्न राज्य और d.C. occupy a संयुक्त क्षेत्रफल of, जिससे is 1.58 % of the total surface area of the Earth.
of इस, is जमीन, composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area.
officially, is जल क्षेत्रफल, composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water area.
the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी जनसांख्यिकी थी 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the स्वदेश 's जनसांख्यिकी, and a density of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a whole.
`` Why '' is the शीर्षक of a सोंग अंकित by American country band Rascal Flatts.
It is the तीसरा सिंगल इससे उनके छठे स्टुडियो album, Unstoppable.
It was released to radio stations on September 29, 2009 और debuted at # 44 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड us बिलबोर्ड hot देश गीतों चार्ट लिये the सप्ताह of अक्तूबर 10, 2009.
it थी लिखा by रोब mathes and Allen Shamblin.
Utilization management is the मूल्यांकन of the appropriateness, चिकित्सा need और दक्षता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं प्रक्रियाओं और सुविधाएं according to स्थापित मापदण्ड or दिशानिर्देश और अंतर्गत the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan.
typically it शामिल नई क्रियाएँ or decisions based upon the analysis of a case.
Utilization management describes proactive प्रक्रियाओं, सहित निर्वहन नियोजन, संयुक्त planning, pre-certification and clinical case appeals.
It भी कवर proactive प्रक्रियाओं, ऐसे as संयुक्त नैदानिक समीक्षाएँ और पीर समीक्षाएँ, as well as appeals introduced by the provider, payer or patient.
As pre-certification and संयुक्त पुनर्विलोकन of मामले grew, utilization प्रबन्धन spun आउट of utilization review.
While not synonymous, health परवाह पेशेवर tend to उपयोग the शर्तें as interchangeable.
The difference is utilization management is and intends to मैनेज स्वास्थ्य परवाह मामले efficiently और लागत effectively पहले और दौरान health care administration.
Utilization review is more considering whether स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी appropriately लागू बाद it थी administered.
There are four basic तकनीकों in utilization management:
माँग प्रबन्धन
utilization Review
मामला प्रबन्धन
Disease प्रबन्धन
The outsiders is a coming-of-age अनोखा by S. E. hinton, first published in 1967 by Viking Press.
Hinton was 15 when she started लिखने the अनोखा, लकिन किया सबसे of the कार्य जब वो was sixteen and a junior in high school.
hinton थी 18 जब the किताब was published.
The किताब फ़ॉलो दो प्रतिद्वंद्वी समूह, the greasers और the socs ( सुनाया by the author as, short for Socials ), who are divided by their socioeconomic status.
The book takes place in Tulsa, ओक्लाहोमा, in 1965, लकिन it is never stated in the book.
A film अनुकूलन थी उत्पादित in 1983, और a little-known short-lived टेलीविज़न श्रेणी appeared in 1990, picking up where the movie left off.
The United States House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस ( a bicameral विधानमंडल ).
it is अक्सर referred to as the House.
the अन्य हाउस is the Senate.
The संयोजन और शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं स्थापित in आलेख एक of the United States Constitution.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले बनने विधि ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस और सीनेट re-pass the विधान साथ a two-thirds बहुमत in each chamber ).
The House has several विशेष शक्तियां : the शक्ति to initiate आय बिल्स, to impeach officials, and to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College.
प्रत्येक u.S. राज्य is represented in the हाउस in proportion to इसके जनसांख्यिकी but is entitled to at least one representative.
The most populous state, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, फिलहाल रै 53 प्रतिनिधि.
The total क्रमांक of मतदान प्रतिनिधि is fixed by law at 435.
Each प्रतिनिधि serves लिये a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the हाउस, और is इसलिए traditionally the नेता of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
The हाउस meets in the दक्षिण wing of the United States Capitol.
A supply chain is दरअसल a जटिल और डायनेमिक सप्लाई और demand network.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
A supply chain is a system of संगठन, लोगों, क्रियाएँ, सूचना, और संसाधन शामिल in चलती a product or service from supplier to customer.
Supply chain activities transform प्राकृतिक संसाधन, कच्चा सामग्री, और components into a समाप्त उत्पाद कि is वितरित to the end customer.
In sophisticated सप्लाई कड़ी प्रणालियों, प्रयुक्त उत्पाद may re-enter the supply chain at any point where residual value is recyclable.
सप्लाई जंजीरों कड़ी value chains.
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written and recorded by Jimi Hendrix in 1967, released as the दूसरी सिंगल by the जिमि हेंड्रिक्स अनुभव in दोनो the संयुक्त किंगडम और the संयुक्त States.
It later appeared on the अमरीकी संस्करण of the बैंड 's 1967 album Are You Experienced.
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the `` archetypical साइकेडेलिक ड्रग गीतों of the sixties ''.
`` जामुनी haze 's '' गिटार virtuosic तकनीकों होता be emulated by many metal guitarists.
A close up picture of a गैंडा स्किन.
Skin is the नरम बाहरी covering of vertebrates.
Other animal coverings such as the arthropod exoskeleton have अलग developmental उत्पत्ति, ढांचा और रासायनिक composition.
The adjective cutaneous अर्थात् `` of the स्किन '' ( इससे लैटिन cutis, skin ).
In mammals, the skin is the largest organ of the integumentary system made up of multiple layers of ectodermal tissue, and गार्ड the underlying मांसपेशियां, हड्डियों, ligaments और आतंरिक अंगों.
Skin of a different प्रकृति exists in amphibians, सरीसृपों, और birds.
All mammals have कुछ बाल on उनके स्किन, भी समुद्री स्तनधारियों which appear to be hairless.
The skin interfaces with the पर्यावरण और is the पहला लकीर of defense from external factors.
For उदाहरण, the स्किन plays a कुंजी भूमिका in protecting the देह against pathogens and excessive water loss.
Its other functions are insulation, तापमान विनियमन, सनसनी, और the उत्पादन of vitamin D folates.
Severely damaged skin may चंगा by forming scar ऊतक.
This is sometimes discoloured और depigmented.
the मोटाई of स्किन भी varies इससे स्थान to location on an organism.
In humans for example, the skin located under the आँखें और around the eyelids is the thinnest स्किन in the देह at 0.5 mm मोटा, और is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles.
The skin on the हथेलियां और the सोल्स of the फीट is 4 mm thick and the thickest skin in the body.
फर is घना hair.
Primarily, fur augments the इन्सुलेशन the स्किन provides लकिन can भी serve as a द्वितीयक यौन characteristic or as camouflage.
On some animals, the स्किन is बहुत मुश्किल और मोटा, और can be processed to बनाएँ चमड़े.
Reptiles and मछली have मुश्किल सुरक्षात्मक तराजू on उनके स्किन लिये सुरक्षा, और पक्षियों have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins.
Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier to ड्योढ़ी of रसायन और is प्रायः विषय to परासरण और diffusive forces.
For example, a frog sitting in an anesthetic समाधान होता be sedated जल्दी, as the रासायनिक diffuses through its skin.
थामस स्कॉट
The Rev. Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is principally ज्ञात लिये उसके best-selling कार्य a commentary on the पूरे बाइबल और the फ़ोर्स of सच्चाई, और as एक of the संस्थापकों of the गिरिजाघर मिशनरी समाज.
Daniel radcliffe, जो portrays हैरी कुम्हार, रै महरूम the प्रतीक of the फिल्मी श्रेणी चूंकि the release of the first film in 2001.
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland have voiced or portrayed वर्ण appearing in the हैरी कुम्हार फिल्मी श्रेणी आधारित on the book series by J. K. Rowling.
Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint और एम्मा वाटसन have निभाई हैरी कुम्हार, रॉन Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the films.
When they were cast तभी radcliffe था previously acted in a फिल्मी.
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter, Jim Broadbent, John Cleese, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis, Ralph Fiennes, Michael Gambon, Brendan Gleeson, Richard Griffiths, रिचर्ड हैरिस, जॉन ठेस, जेसन isaacs, miriam margolyes, हेलेन mccrory, गेरी oldman, एलन rickman, फिओना शॉ, मैगी स्मिथ, टिमोथी Spall, Imelda Staunton, David Thewlis, Emma Thompson, and Julie Walters, among others.
तेरह अभिनेताओं have appeared as the वही अक्षर in सब आठ films of the franchise.
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in the श्रेणी, हैं पूछा in jest क्यों वे have नहीं महरूम डाल.
When David Yates was directing the fifth film, विधेयक nighy, जो था previously collaborated साथ येट्स on तीन of उसके टेलीविज़न प्रोजेक्ट, कहा कि he joked साथ येट्स कि संभवतः अभी he होता n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter.
`` लकिन nobody पुकारा '', nighy added.
But in 2009, Yates डाल nighy as मंत्री of जादू rufus scrimgeour in Deathly Hallows.
nighy कहा, `` i am no longer the तभी अंग्रेज़ी कर्ता नहीं to be in Harry Potter and I am very pleased. ''
jude विधि रै quipped, `` Nobody 's asked me.
I was a bit too बूढ़ा लिये हैरी ''.
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace Slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the श्रेणी ' कनेक्शन to `` प्रत्येक notable अंग्रेजों कर्ता, '' जिम broadbent, who plays Slughorn said, `` Well, not every actor gets invited.
i जान कुछ जो हैं still waiting. ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus, each director has had a cameo appearance in his संबंधित फिल्मी : अलफोंसो cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a मोमबत्ती दौरान a झाँकी at the तीन broomsticks in कैदी of azkaban ; माइक newell is सुना briefly as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix.
Producer David Heyman also makes a cameo appearance as a जादूगर प्रदर्शित भीतर a जादुई चलती पोर्ट्रेट in the तीसरा फिल्मी, कैदी of Azkaban.
J. K. रोलिंग दिया a वाक दौरान the संसार प्रीमियर of the फाइनल फिल्मी in the series— हैरी कुम्हार and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London, England.
वो घोषित कि वो could never have dreamt of the talented actors and actresses who have appeared in all the Harry Potter movies.
Rowling also announced that there are सात हैरी कुम्हार फिल्मी श्रेणी डाल सदस्यों, जो वो refers to as `` the बिग सात '', वे हैं Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Tom Felton, Matthew Lewis, Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright.
the सूची नीचे is sorted by फिल्मी और अक्षर, as कुछ वर्ण have महरूम portrayed by multiple actors.
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the actor or actress lent तभी उसके or उसके आवाज़ लिये उसके or उसके फिल्मी character
( y ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री portrayed the भूमिका in a flashback scene or when the character was young.
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did not appear in कोई नई फुटेज लिये the फिल्मी ; फुटेज इससे an पहले फिल्मी or films थी प्रयुक्त.
A light grey cell ( such as the one in the `` Charity Burbage '' पंक्ति in the `` पारस 's स्टोन '' कालम ) indicates the अक्षर थी नहीं in the फिल्मी अनुकूलन.
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual सिद्धान्त, ' आधारित on the स्वीकृत साहित्य ) outlining a कोर्स of कार्रवाई लिये रिकवरी इससे, मजबूरी, or अन्य behavioral problems.
originally प्रस्तावित by alcoholics बेनाम ( aa ) as a विधि of रिकवरी इससे alcoholism, the बारह कदम यहूद पहला प्रकाशित in the किताब alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939.
The method was then adapted and became the न्यास of अन्य twelve-step programs.
As summarized by the अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक संघ, the process involves the following:
admitting कि एक can नहीं कंट्रोल एक 's addiction or compulsion ;
recognizing a उच्चतर शक्ति कि can दे शक्ति ;
examining past errors with the सहायता of a प्रायोजक ( अनुभवी सदस्य ) ;
making amends लिये ये त्रुटियाँ ;
सीखना to सजीव a new life with a new code of behavior ;
helping अन्य जो suffer इससे the वही व्यसनों or compulsions.
Witness impeachment, in the विधि of प्रमाण of the संयुक्त राज्य, is the प्रक्रम of कॉलिंग into सवाल the credibility of an individual who is testifying in a trial.
The Federal Rules of Evidence contain the नियम शासी महाभियोग in संघीय courts.
Party leaders and whips of the United राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि हैं निर्वाचित by उनके संबंधित पार्टियों in a closed-door caucus by रहस्य ballot and are also known as floor leaders.
The u.S. हाउस of प्रतिनिधि करता नहीं officially उपयोग the पद `` अल्पसंख्यक नेता '' although the media frequently do.
The House instead उपयोग the शर्तें `` रिपब्लिकन नेता '' or `` लोकतांत्रिक नेता '' depending on which party holds a minority of seats.
The वर्तमान हाउस बहुमत नेता is रिपब्लिकन eric cantor, जबकि the current House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi.
The current House Majority Whip is Republican केविन मैकार्थी, जबकि the वर्तमान हाउस अल्पसंख्यक Whip is Democrat Steny Hoyer.
following the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i in 1914, the जर्मनी फौज खोली the पश्चिमी सामने by पहला invading Luxembourg and Belgium, then gaining military control of important industrial regions in France.
The tide of the advance was dramatically turned साथ the बैटल of the Marne.
Following the race to the sea, both sides dug in साथ a meandering लकीर of fortified trenches, stretching from the North Sea to the Swiss frontier with France.
This line remained essentially अपरिवर्तित लिये सबसे of the war.
Between 1915 and 1917 वहीँ यहूद अनेक प्रमुख offensives साथ इस सामने.
The attacks employed विशाल तोपखाने bombardments और massed infantry advances.
However, a combination of entrenchments, machine gun nests, barbed तार, और तोपखाने repeatedly inflicted कठोर हताहत on the हमलावर और counterattacking defenders.
As a परिणाम, no significant advances were made.
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ] 700,000 मुर्दे, the बैटल of the somme साथ अधिक than [ an अनुमानित ] लाख हताहत, और the बैटल of passchendaele साथ roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties.
In an effort to ब्रेक the deadlock, इस सामने देखी the परिचय of नई सैन्य technology, including poison gas, aircraft and tanks.
But it was only after the अपनाना of improved tactics कि कुछ उपाधि of गतिशीलता थी लौटी.
The German Spring Offensive of 1918 was made संभावित by the सन्धि of brest-litovsk कि चिह्नित the समाप्त of the विरोध on the Eastern Front.
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics, the German सेना उन्नत nearly to the वेस्ट, जिससे चिह्नित the deepest अग्रिम by either पक्ष चूंकि 1914 और बहुत nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
In spite of the generally stagnant प्रकृति of इस सामने, इस थिएटर होता prove निर्णायक.
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies during the second half of 1918 persuaded the जर्मनी कमांडरों कि शिकस्त थी अपरिहार्य, और the सरकारी थी मजबूर to मुकदमा लिये शर्तें of an armistice.
The terms of peace were सहमत upon साथ the हस्ताक्षर of the सन्धि of versailles in 1919.
The following is a list of पुनरावर्ती और नाबालिग वर्ण in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी the Suite Life of Zack & Cody.
These characters were regularly घुमाया, प्रायः disappearing लिये long अवधि दौरान the series.
The following list of characters has been sorted alphabetically, by first name.
Some of the characters had no last name and most were commonly referred to by उनके पहला नाम so इस appeared to be the सबसे लॉजिकल method.
In the case of Chef पाउलो, जो था no ज्ञात पहला नाम, वे have been listed by title.
the पहला महिला of the संयुक्त राज्य ( flotus ) is the hostess of the White House.
Because इस स्थिति is traditionally भर by the बीवी of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, the शीर्षक is सबसे often applied to the wife of a sitting president.
The current पहला महिला is मिशेल Obama.
After her husband Barack Obama was re-elected on नवम्बर 6, 2012, वो is अनुसूचित to serve जबतक जनवरी 20, 2017.
सेप्टिक शॉक is a चिकित्सा कंडीशन as a परिणाम of कठोर संक्रमण और सेप्सिस, हालांकि the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular site.
It can कारण अनेक अंग dysfunction सिंड्रोम ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) and death.
Its most common victims are children, immunocompromised individuals, और the बुजुर्ग, as उनके प्रतिरक्षा प्रणालियों can नहीं सौदे साथ the संक्रमण as effectively as those of स्वस्थ adults.
Frequently, patients कष्ट इससे सेप्टिक शॉक हैं cared लिये in intensive care units.
The mortality rate from सेप्टिक शॉक is लगभग 25–50 %.
Kevin Brereton ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1972 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम k-os ( ; `` अराजकता '' ), is a कनाडाई rapper, singer, songwriter and record producer.
His दिए नाम may भी be cited as kheaven, a स्पेलिंग he बाद adopted.
The alias `` k-os '', spelled with a lower case `` k '', was intended to be कम आक्रामक than the pseudonyms of अन्य rappers जिनकी names यहूद all upper case, such as KRS-One.
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self, '' although in a later interview he said that it originally stood लिये `` केविन 's असली ध्वनि. '' k-os ' म्यूज़िक incorporates a चौड़ी किस्में of म्यूज़िक जाति, सहित रैप, दुर्गंध, चट्टान, और reggae.
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive संदेश '' जबकि at टाइम्स expressing आलोचना of मुख्यधारा हिप हॉप संस्कृति 's obsession साथ धन, कीर्ति और glorification of violence.
A musician as well as a producer, k-os रै लिखा और उत्पादित nearly प्रत्येक भाग of सब चार of उसके एल्बम.
k-os usually performs साथ a सजीव बैंड, कुछ कि is uncommon in the hip hop genre.
He sometimes plays गिटार और कुंजीपटल दोनो दौरान सजीव प्रदर्शन and in the studio.
k-os received his first musical exposure साथ the सिंगल `` musical essence '', released in 1993.
बाद the रिलीज of उसके दूसरी सिंगल `` वृद्धि जैसे the सूर्य '' in 1996, he withdrew इससे the industry because he was dissatisfied with his musical style.
He reappeared briefly in 1999 और released his debut album Exit in 2002.
The album प्राप्त धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ लकिन बेची अपेक्षाकृत few copies.
He released उसके दूसरी एल्बम आनन्द विद्रोह in 2004, जिससे received platinum status in Canada.
A third album,, was released in 2006 और भी गई प्लेटिनम.
His चौथी एल्बम, यस !
, was released in 2009.
His fifth एल्बम ब्लैक on सुनहरे थी released in 2013.
the आधिकारिक 2007 संस्करण of the UCC.
Even the गोपनीय अशिष्ट मसौदा of the ucc यहूद saved और प्रकाशित as a 10-volume set.
The Uniform वाणिज्यिक कोड ( ucc or the कोड ), पहला प्रकाशित in 1952, is एक of a क्रमांक of वर्दी अधिनियमों कि have महरूम promulgated in संयोजन with efforts to harmonize the law of sales and other commercial transactions in all 50 states within the United States of America.
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of चढ़ाई रूट साथ एक or अधिक stops at a belay station.
Each section of वास्तविक चढ़ाई between stops at the belay stations is called a pitch.
The leader ascends the pitch, placing gear and stopping to लंगर themselves to the belay स्टेशन.
The कारण लिये the stops can be संकल्पित by चुनाव, convention or necessity.
For example:
The रस्सी is too छोटी to do the संपूर्ण रूट in one pitch ( necessity ).
the नेता रै चलाएं आउट of सुरक्षात्मक gear ( necessity ).
There is a सुविधाजनक protectable कगार, or फिक्स्ड bolts लगाई by पिछला चढना, at the location for a belay station ( convention ).
The leader chooses to rest or एक्सचेंज लीड पहले the अगला खण्ड of the climb ( choice ).
The general purpose of ये stops is to allow the दूसरी to ascend to the पाइंट of the सीसे climber जबकि collecting the protective gear from the route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent.
At the belay station, the सुरक्षात्मक गियर is एकत्रित, संभवतः exchanged to a नई नेता, and the leader of the next pitch ascends the route.
A diagram showing an I गठन on ठोकर और a 4-3 गठन on defense
In अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, प्रत्येक टोली रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the field at one time.
The specific role that a player takes on the फ़ील्ड is पुकारा उनके स्थिति.
Under the modern rules of American football, teams हैं अनुमत असीमित subsititutions, कि is टीमों may बदलें any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the विकास of तीन `` platoons '' of खिलाड़ी, the ठोकर ( the टोली साथ the बॉल, जो is trying to स्कोर ), the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on कया the खिलाड़ी 's प्रमुख जॉब is.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक ड्रग गाली रोकथाम and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग और वितरण of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also परोसा as the नेशनल implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on Narcotic Drugs.
the विधान निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration और the खाना और ड्रग प्रशासन, determine जिससे substances हैं added to or removed इससे the विभिन्न schedules, हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a नई जर्सी पारगमन park-and-ride स्टेशन in वेन, नई जर्सी साथ the montclair-boonton लकीर कि provides बस सेवा to नई यॉर्क नगर और विभिन्न अन्य अंक in the area as well as Montclair-Boonton Line train service to New York, Hoboken, and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University.
It is स्तिथ बंद of the southbound गलियों of नई जर्सी रूट 23 on वेस्ट बेल्ट सड़क, निकट the इंटरचेंज जहाँ रूट 23, Interstate 80, and U.S. Route 46 meet, across from the Willowbrook Mall.
the स्टेशन खोली in जनवरी 2008 and has 1,000 parking spaces.
New Jersey Transit intends लिये इस संयुक्त रेल और बस स्टेशन to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन, '' कि होगा सहायता relieve the habitual जमघट at the वेस्ट बेल्ट सड़क Interchange, where the three major highways meet.
In addition, the construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at what was then Route 23 Park & Ride, a bus डिपो on रूट 23 उत्तर कि रै चूंकि महरूम renamed माँ 's पार्क & सवारी, और the willowbrook मॉल पार्क & सवारी ; the now-mother 's साईट था सीमित पार्किंग while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook.
the वेन township बस गैरेज is स्तिथ on the opposite side of Route 23.
There रै महरूम a प्रस्ताव to निर्माण a पार्किंग डेक साथ another thousand spots and develop the land at the station.
In addition to Montclair-Boonton रेल, the पारगमन बीच is परोसा by the following नई जर्सी पारगमन bus lines:
75 to न्यूर्क penn स्टेशन और बटलर
194 to बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल और William Paterson University
324 to Port प्राधिकार और वेन रूट 23
748 to willowbrook मॉल and Paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at symbol, ampersat, apetail or वाणिज्यिक at in english—and कम commonly a चौड़ी दायरा of अन्य शर्तें.
The fact that there is no single word in English for the प्रतीक रै prompted कुछ लेखक to उपयोग the फ्रेंच arobase or स्पेनी और पुर्तगाली arroba—or to सिक्का नई शब्द ऐसे as asperand, ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency.
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 विजेट @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it थी नहीं शामिल on the कुंजीपटल of the earliest commercially कामयाब typewriters, लकिन थी on at तनिक एक 1889 मॉडल और the बहुत कामयाब Underwood models from the `` Underwood No. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
It is now universally शामिल on कंप्यूटर keyboards.
In recent years, its meaning has grown to include the sense of being `` located at, '' `` and, '' or `` directed at '', विशेषकर in ईमेल पता और सोशल मीडिया, विशेषकर ट्विटर.
The mark is एनकोडेड at.
the catcher in the rye is a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger.
Originally प्रकाशित लिये वयस्कों, it रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय साथ adolescent पाठक लिये इसके themes of teenage angst and alienation.
It has been अनूदित into लगभग सब of the संसार 's प्रमुख languages.
Around 250,000 copies are sold each साल साथ कुल बिक्री of अधिक than 65 million books.
The novel 's protagonist and antihero, होल्डन caulfield, रै become an प्रतीक लिये teenage विद्रोह.
The novel was included on टाइम्स 2005 सूची of the 100 बेहतरीन english-language novels लिखा चूंकि 1923, और it थी नामित by आधुनिक पुस्तकालयों और इसके पाठक as एक of the 100 बेहतरीन english-language novels of the 20th century.
It has been अक्सर challenged in the संयुक्त राज्य और अन्य देशों for its liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality.
It also deals with complex मुद्दे of पहचान, belonging, कनेक्शन, और alienation.
skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
इस is a तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the ठेठ इंसान, और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां, मिला on दोनो पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
उदाहरण दायरा इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or ट्रंक, मांसपेशियां of the अपर limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the मानक anatomical स्थिति.
In other स्थितियाँ, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by जोनाथन मरे लिये the Oxygen television station.
The show centers on सात feisty और शरारती महिलाओं साथ अलग पृष्ठभूमि और personalities, who have a number of psychological and behavioral problems.
They are introduced to the show बंद उनके घातक बर्ताव और accomplish विशिष्ट goals.
The cast, deemed `` ख़राब लड़कियों '', आनंद a luxurious जीवनशैली in a ठीक mansion for three months, during which they must obey specified rules.
Their lives inside – और बाहर – of the हाउस हैं chronicled और अंकित by the उत्पादन टोली.
The Bad लड़कियों क्लबों is ब्रॉडकास्ट in पाँच देशों ( संयुक्त राज्य, नीदरलैंड्स, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, हंगेरियाई, और स्वीडन ).
It has प्राप्त ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, जो मानना the show promotes violence by adolescent viewers.
Furthermore, several cast सदस्यों बना विवादास्पद remarks जिससे outraged अनेक viewers.
The स्वरूप of the दिखाएँ रै बदला इससे जल्दी सीज़न.
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a नियम, वो is evicted इससे the दिखाएँ और, if it is जल्दी in the season, replaced by a new `` bad girl ''.
There have been nine complete seasons of the ख़राब लड़कियों क्लबों, साथ the दसवाँ ऋतु फिलहाल airing.
The fourth season had the उच्चतम दरजा in the दिखाएँ 's इतिहास, बनने इसके `` भेदन season ''.
There have been three spin-offs of the ख़राब लड़कियों क्लबों.
One of उन्हें, प्रेम खेल : ख़राब लड़कियों need प्रेम too, जहाँ पास्ट डाल members seek true love, has gained high ratings.
ऑक्सीजन रै भी released a मोबाईल खेल, कॉमिक स्ट्रिप और merchandise to promote the show.
Of the 92 contestants, Kerry harvick ( of ऋतु एक ) थी a कामयाब देश सिंगर before the show.
Tanisha Thomas ( of ऋतु दो ) बाद hosted ऑक्सीजन 's oxygenlive !
and the subsequent सीज़न of प्रेम खेल : Bad Girls Need Love Too.
Thomas, who has been dubbed the `` godmother '' to सब प्रतियोगी, रै उसके अपना टेलीविज़न वृत्तचित्र हकदार tanisha Gets Married.
As of Season 8 she 's महरूम the मेजबान of the पुनर्मिलन specials.
The Iowa Senate is the अपर हाउस of the आयोवा सामान्य सभा.
There are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate, representing 50 single-member जिले आरपार the राज्य साथ populations of लगभग 60,927 प्रति constituency,.
Each Senate district is रचित of दो हाउस जिले.
The सीनेट meets at the आयोवा राज्य कैपिटल in Des Moines.
Unlike the lower house, the Iowa House of Representatives, Senators serve four-year terms, साथ हाफ of the सीनेट लड़खड़ाते लिये re-election प्रत्येक two years.
वहीँ हैं no पद हद लिये the Senate.
mechanical मरम्मत
Maintenance, repair, and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance, repair, और overhaul involves फिक्सिंग कोई sort of mechanical, plumbing or विद्युत यंत्र चाहिए it become आउट of अनुक्रम or broken ( known as repair, unscheduled or casualty maintenance ).
It also includes performing दिनचर्या क्रियाएँ जिससे रखना the यंत्र in working अनुक्रम ( ज्ञात as अनुसूचित maintenance ) or prevent trouble from arising ( preventive maintenance ).
MRO may be defined as, `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or restoring an मद in or to a राज्य in जिससे it can perform इसके जरूरी function.
The actions include the combination of all तकनीकी और सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक, managerial, और पर्यवेक्षण actions. ''
MRO operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer, i.e. a service is being offered, or whether the उत्पाद is खरीदा by the reprocessing संगठन और बेची to कोई ग्राहक wishing to मेक the खरीदें ( Guadette, 2002 ).
In the former case it may be a backshop आपरेशन भीतर a larger संगठन or छोटी आपरेशन.
the पूर्व of ये represents a बंद लूप सप्लाई कड़ी और प्रायः रै the पैमाना of maintenance, repair or of the product.
The latter of the categorisations is an खोलें लूप सप्लाई कड़ी और is typified by refurbishment और remanufacture.
The प्रमुख characteristic of the बंद लूप प्रणाली is कि the माँग लिये a उत्पाद is matched with the supply of a used product.
Neglecting asset write-offs और असाधारण क्रियाएँ the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of the उत्पाद between the ग्राहक और the service provider remains constant.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, और डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और third-eldest पोता of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ ii और प्रिंस Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind उसके पिता, to the तख्तों of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, जमैका, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the संयुक्त किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of st एंड्रयूज.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, बेलीज़, तंजानिया, और कीनिया जहाँ he रै जिया और holidayed अनेक टाइम्स.
Prince विलियम रै भी लिया kiswahili अध्ययन at universities in Kenya and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household प्यादे —serving साथ उसके bhai प्रिंस हैरी —and, दो सालो बाद, अर्जित उसके विंग्स by completing पायलट प्रशिक्षण at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the royal एयर फ़ोर्स, थी प्रचारित to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force.
in 2010, he समाप्त उसके सामान्य और special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर प्रशिक्षण और गई on to raf घाटी on No. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
प्रिंस विलियम शादीशुदा उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड, कैथरीन Middleton, on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to उसके विवाह, प्रिंस विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, Earl of Strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28, 1990 ), better known by उसके स्टेज नाम soulja लड़के बताना 'em, or बस soulja लड़के, is an अमरीकी rapper, रिकार्ड निर्माता, actor, and entrepreneur.
in सितंबर 2007, उसके सिंगल `` Crank That ( Soulja Boy ) `` reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100.
The single was initially self-published on the अंतरजाल, और it बाद became a number-one hit in the संयुक्त राज्य for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007.
On August 17 Way was listed at # 18 on the फोर्ब्स सूची of hip-hop नकदी किंग्स of 2010 कमाई $ 7 लाख for that year.
Way has फिलहाल released तीन स्टुडियो एल्बम और एक स्वतंत्र एल्बम : उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA.
However, उसके अगला दो एल्बम, isouljaboytellem ( 2008 ) और the deandre रास्ता ( 2010 ) किया नहीं मैच the वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू, the latter तभी selling 100,000 नक़ल, despite the success of several singles across both albums, such as `` Kiss Me Thru the Phone `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ).
This was mainly due to negotiation problems with Interscope रिकॉर्ड जिससे meant a सीमित राशि of रिकॉर्ड यहूद बना उपलब्धियाँ to the पब्लिक.
As of 2011, Way रै पुष्टि he is working on उसके चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम, हकदार USA DRE, which will be released in 2013.
The electron हस्तांतरण कड़ी in the सूत्रकणिका is the साईट of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
The NADH and succinate generated in the साइट्रिक एसिड साईकिल हैं oxidized, providing उर्जा to शक्ति एटीपी synthase.
Photosynthetic इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण कड़ी of the thylakoid membrane.
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an electron donor ( such as nadh ) और an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ( ऐसे as o2 ) साथ the ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions ( protons ) आरपार a झिल्ली.
The resulting electrochemical proton gradient is used to generate रासायनिक उर्जा in the रूप of एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ).
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms प्रयुक्त लिये extracting उर्जा इससे धूप in photosynthesis और भी इससे रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ).
In chloroplasts, लाइट ड्राइव the परिवर्तन of जल to ऑक्सीजन और nadP+ to nadph साथ ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes.
In mitochondria, it is the परिवर्तन of ऑक्सीजन to जल, nadh to naD+ और succinate to fumarate that are required to generate the proton gradient.
Electron हस्तांतरण जंजीरों हैं प्रमुख साइट of असामयिक इलेक्ट्रॉन leakage to ऑक्सीजन, generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress.
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip, Ryzolt, ultracet, ultram in the यूएसए, ralivia, zytram xl durella { cr-100/200 mg } in कनाडा or adolonta in स्पेन ) is a centrally एक्टिंग सिंथेटिक analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain.
the ड्रग रै a चौड़ी दायरा of अनुप्रयोग, सहित उपचार of आमवातीय गठिया, restless legs syndrome, motor neurone disease and fibromyalgia.
It was शुभारम्भ और marketed as tramal by the जर्मनी फार्मास्युटिकल company Grünenthal GmbH in 1977.
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist कि भी induces serotonin रिलीज and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
Tramadol is metabolized to o-desmethyltramadol, a significantly अधिक potent μ-opioid agonist.
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are distinguished इससे अन्य अधिक potent opioid agonists by सापेक्ष selectivity लिये μ-opioid receptors.
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff ( ; born April 29, 1938 ) is an अमरीकी पूर्व stockbroker, निवेश सलाहकार, फाइनेंसर, और श्वेत कॉलर दण्ड.
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ stock market, and the admitted operator of a पेन्शन योजना कि is माना to be the largest वित्तीय fraud in U.S. history.
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm बर्नार्ड L. madoff निवेश प्रतिभूति llc in 1960, और थी इसके अध्यक्ष until his arrest on December 11, 2008.
The firm was one of the top market maker businesses on वॉल गली, जिससे bypassed `` विशेषज्ञ '' firms by सीधे निष्पादित आदेश over the काउंटर इससे खुदरा brokers.
He employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior मैनेजिंग निदेशक और मुख्य अनुपालन अधिकारी ; पीटर रै चूंकि महरूम sentenced to 10 years in prison.
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's rules and compliance officer and attorney, and his बेटे एंड्रयू और चिह्नित ( चिह्नित वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by फांसी exactly दो सालो बाद उसके father 's arrest ).
On December 10, 2008, Madoff 's sons told authorities that their father had confessed to them that the एसेट प्रबन्धन ईकाई of उसके कड़ थी a विशाल पेन्शन योजना, और कोटेड उसे as describing it as `` एक बिग झूठ. ''
The following दिन, एफबीआई एजेंटों गिरफ्तार madoff और चार्ज उसे साथ एक count of securities fraud.
The U.S. प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग ( सेक ) था previously conducted investigations into Madoff 's business practices, but did not uncover the massive fraud.
In March 2009, Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies और admitted to turning उसके माल प्रबन्धन कारोबार into a विशाल पेन्शन योजना कि झांसे thousands of investors of billions of dollars.
Madoff said he began the Ponzi योजना in the जल्दी 1990s.
However, संघीय जांचकर्ताओं मानना the धोखाधड़ी began as जल्दी as the 1970s, and those charged with recovering the missing money believe the investment operation may never have been legitimate.
The amount missing इससे क्लाएंट खाते, सहित fabricated gains, थी लगभग $ 65 billion.
The court-appointed ट्रस्टी अनुमानित वास्तविक नुकसान to investors of $ 18 billion.
On June 29, 2009, he was sentenced to 150 सालो in थाना, the अधिकतम अनुमत.
Administrative Professionals Day ( भी ज्ञात as secretaries दिन or एडमिन दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक countries to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In North America, it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last पूरा सप्ताह of अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the तीसरा गुरुवार in अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is मनाये on the पहला शुक्रवार in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board, generally of a public administrative एजेंसी, जिससे रै शक्तियां और प्रक्रियाओं resembling those of a अदालत of विधि or न्यायधीश, और जिससे is obligated to objectively determine तथ्य and draw conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action.
Such actions are able to remedy a situation or impose legal दंड, और may affect the विधिक अधिकारों, कर्तव्य or privileges of विशिष्ट पार्टियों.
Monument of Tycho Brahe और योहानेस कॅप्लर in प्राग
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ), born Tyge Ottesen Brahe, was a Danish nobleman ज्ञात लिये उसके सटीक और व्यापक खगोलीय और ग्रहीय observations.
He was born in Scania, then part of डेनमार्क, अभी भाग of modern-day स्वीडन.
Tycho थी खूब ज्ञात in उसके आजीवन as an astronomer and alchemist.
in उसके de नोवा स्टेला ( on the नई स्टार ) of 1573, he refuted the aristotelian belief in an unchanging celestial realm.
His precise measurements indicated कि `` नई सितारों, '' ( stellae novae, अभी ज्ञात as supernovae ) in particular कि of 1572, lacked the लंबन अपेक्षित in sub-lunar phenomena, और यहूद इसलिए not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed, but were above the atmosphere and moon.
Using similar measurements he दिखाया कि धूमकेतुओं यहूद भी नहीं वायुमंडलीय phenomena, as previously विचार, और जरूर pass through the माना `` immutable '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, Tycho worked to combine what he saw as the geometrical लाभ of the copernican प्रणाली साथ the philosophical लाभ of the ptolemaic प्रणाली into उसके अपना मॉडल of the ब्रह्मांड, the Tychonic system.
Furthermore, he was the पिछला of the प्रमुख नग्न नजर खगोलशास्त्रियों, working बगैर telescopes for his observations.
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the द्वीप of hven और the funding to निर्माण the uraniborg, an जल्दी शोध संस्थान, जहाँ he निर्मित विशाल खगोलीय यंत्र और took अनेक careful माप, and later Stjerneborg, underground, when he discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady.
On the island ( on which he demonstrated निरंकुश अक्षर और बर्ताव toward the निवासियों ) he संस्थापित manufactories ऐसे as paper-making to provide सामग्री लिये मुद्रण his results.
After मतभिन्नता साथ the नई डैनिश किंग ईसाई iv in 1597, he थी आमंत्रित by the bohemian किंग और पावन Roman emperor Rudolph II to Prague, where he became the official imperial astronomer.
He निर्मित the नई वेधशाला at Benátky nad Jizerou.
Here, from 1600 until his death in 1601, he was assisted by योहानेस कॅप्लर जो बाद प्रयुक्त tycho 's खगोलीय आंकड़ा to develop कॅप्लर 's laws of planetary motion.
Guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a district of Seoul, South Korea, जिससे थी अलग इससे yeongdeungpo ज़िला on अप्रैल 1, 1980.
Located in the southwestern part of the city, where besides yangcheon ज़िला और geumcheon ज़िला guro ज़िला रै an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति as a हस्तांतरण कड़ी जिससे contains railroads, जमीन रूट इससे the बाकी of Seoul to the south of the country.
The Gyeongbu and Gyeongin railway lines कनेक्ट सियोल to बुसान और इंचियोन.
In addition, Seoul Metropolitan Subway lines 1, 2, और 7, और प्रमुख राजमार्गों प्रतिच्छेद in Guro District.
The name Guro originates इससे the लेजेंड कि नौ ( ) बूढ़ा मेन ( कोरियाई : ro ) enjoyed आयु in the district.
A digital औद्योगिक जटिल is स्तिथ in guro District.
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex, which played a leading industrial role mainly with textile निर्माण, dressmaking और अन्य labour-intensive उद्योग in 1967, रै महरूम rapidly बदला into an it औद्योगिक complex.
This complex played a pivotal role in the आर्थिक विकास of the दक्षिण कोरियाई 's विकास era, referred to as the `` चमत्कार on the हान नदी ``, और also contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s.
Twenty-one percent of the total area of Guro District is a प्रतिबंधित मण्डल to be प्रयुक्त as a greenbelt साथ the तभी arboretum in Seoul.
The zone is changing into a lively district as विशाल labour-intensive कारखानों हैं चलती इससे the क्षेत्रफल और the परिषद is developing what it terms its four zones.
An `` e-government `` system आधारित on इस hosted the अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9, 2007, साथ the भागीदारी of अधिक than thirty-seven countries.
The forum was launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors सहित आंद्रे santini ( issy-les-moulineaux, फ़्रांस ), केविन foy ( चैपल हिल, us ), apirak kosayothin ( बैंकॉक, थाईलैंड ), uvais मोहम्मद emthiyas ( कोलोन, Sri Lanka ), and world experts such as Dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford, UK ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere, Finland ) participated in the forum.
The Guro Declaration, अपनाया दौरान the फ़ोरम, aims to नियत up a पोर्टल साईट लिये e-government विकास और to स्थापित a कंक्रीट project in order to bridge the digital divide among the world 's cities.
This अभ्यास रै महरूम recognised लिये providing a नई महत्वपूर्ण step in the development of e-democracy.
The e-participation forum was a key factor for Guro to play the leading role in bridging the digital divide among cities, to provide i.t. उद्यमों स्तिथ in guro डिजिटल औद्योगिक जटिल the अवसर to लॉन्च into the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मार्केट, to improve इसके चित्र और become a वैश्विक नेता to कंक्रीट e-democracy.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on February 7–9, 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in ट्रांसक्रिप्शन इससे cantonese ; मंदारिन : húndùn ) is a प्रकार of पकौड़ी commonly मिला in a number of Chinese cuisines.
Many people were शामिल in the आविष्कार of रेडियो as we अभी know it.
Several possible methods of wireless communication were considered, including inductive और capacitive प्रेरण और हस्तांतरण through the मैदान, however the विधि प्रयुक्त लिये रेडियो आज exclusively involves the हस्तांतरण और रिसेप्शन of electromagnetic waves.
After जल्दी अटकलें on the विषय, प्रायोगिक कार्य on the कनेक्शन between विद्युत और चुंबकत्व began around 1820 साथ the work of Hans Christian Ørsted and continued with the work of André-Marie Ampère, Joseph Henry, and Michael Faraday.
These investigations culminated in the पूरा सिद्धान्त of विद्युत्चुम्बकत्व विकसित by जेम्स Clerk Maxwell.
This सिद्धान्त वर्णित the सैद्धांतिक आधार of the propagation of electromagnetic waves.
After मैक्सवेल 's सिद्धान्त थी प्रकाशित अनेक लोगों experimented साथ बेतार communication, some intentionally using Maxwell 's theory some not.
It is considered likely that the first intentional transmission of a signal by अर्थात् of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक लहरें थी performed by दाउद एडवर्ड ह्यूजेस around 1880, हालांकि इस थी माना to be प्रेरण at the time.
The first systematic and unequivocal transmission of EM लहरें थी performed by heinrich रुडॉल्फ हर्ट्ज़ और वर्णित in papers प्रकाशित in 1887 और 1890.
Hertz famously माना ये परिणाम as होने of छोटी practical value.
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components and सिद्धान्त शामिल साथ the हस्तांतरण और रिसेप्शन of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक waves.
Others, notably Guglielmo मार्कोनी, यहूद चिंतित साथ व्यावहारिक सुधार और the वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग of रेडियो to बेतार telegraphy.
बाद on रेगिनाल्ड A. fessenden became the पहला to भेजें an ऑडियो सिग्नल by अर्थात् of electromagnetic waves.
Scurvy is a बीमारी resulting इससे a कमियां of विटामिन c, जिससे is जरूरी for the synthesis of collagen in humans.
The chemical name for vitamin C, ascorbic acid, is derived from the Latin नाम of स्कर्वी, scorbutus, जिससे भी provides the क्रियाशील scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ).
Scurvy often presents itself initially as लक्षण of malaise और lethargy, followed by गठन of धब्बे on the स्किन, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes.
Spots are most abundant on the thighs and legs, and a व्यक्ति साथ the ailment looks पाले, feels उदास, और is partially immobilized.
As scurvy advances, there can be open, suppurating wounds, घाटा of दांत, पीलिया, ज्वर, न्यूरोपैथी और मौत.
Scurvy was at एक समय आम among sailors, pirates और अन्य सवार जहाजों at समुद्र longer than perishable फल और सब्जियां could be भंडारित ( subsisting बजाय तभी on cured and salted meats and dried grains ) and by soldiers similarly deprived of these foods for extended periods.
It was described by हिपोक्रेटिस ( c. 460 bc–c. 380 bc ), और हर्बल cures लिये स्कर्वी have महरूम ज्ञात in many native cultures since prehistory.
Scurvy was one of the limiting factors of समुद्री सफर, प्रायः हत्या विशाल संख्याएँ of the यात्री और क्रू on long-distance voyages.
This became a significant issue in Europe from the beginning of the आधुनिक era in the आयु of डिस्कवरी in the 15th सदी, continuing to play a significant role through World War I in the 20th century.
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional deficiency, until the isolation of विटामिन c और सीधा प्रमाण of इसके कड़ी to स्कर्वी in 1932, numerous theories और उपचार यहूद प्रस्तावित, often on little or no experimental data.
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of vitamin c as a पृथक अवधारणा, an अक्षमता to reliably कड़ी अलग भोजन ( notably उपस्थित in भैस citrus, watercress, and organ meat ) to scurvy.
An additional concept required to understand स्कर्वी थी the degradation of विटामिन c by एक्सपोज़र to एयर और तांबे और अन्य परिवर्तन मेटल लवण ऐसे as those of आयरन, यूँ बदलना the कड़ी of भोजन to स्कर्वी over time.
उपचार by भैस खाना, विशेषकर citrus फल, थी periodically implemented, as it had been since antiquity.
However जबतक the 1930s, उपचार थी असंगत, साथ अनेक अप्रभावी treatments used into the 20th century.
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy, James Lind who first proved it could be treated साथ citrus फल in प्रयोग he वर्णित in उसके 1753 किताब, a treatise of the स्कर्वी, हालांकि उसके सलाह थी नहीं implemented by the royal नेवी लिये अनेक decades.
In infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as barlow 's बीमारी, नामित बाद सर थामस barlow, a अंग्रेजों चिकित्सक जो वर्णित it.
However, Barlow 's disease may भी refer to mitral वाल्व prolapse.
Other eponyms लिये स्कर्वी शामिल moeller 's बीमारी and Cheadle 's disease.
Scurvy does not occur in most animals because वे can synthesize उनके अपना विटामिन C.
However, humans and other higher primates ( the simians - बंदरों और apes - और tarsiers ), गिनी सूअर, सबसे or सब bats, और कुछ प्रजाति of पक्षियों और मछली कमी an एंजाइम ( l-gulonolactone oxidase ) जरुरी लिये such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet.
विटामिन c is फैली in संयंत्र ऊतकों, साथ विशेषकर ऊँची एकाग्रता occurring in citrus fruits ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), tomatoes, potatoes, cabbages, and green peppers.
Iron is a chemical element with the प्रतीक fe ( इससे ) और परमाणु क्रमांक 26.
It is a metal in the पहला परिवर्तन श्रेणी.
It is the most common element ( by mass ) forming the planet Earth as a पूरे, forming much of धरती 's बाहरी और भीतरी कोर.
It is the fourth most common तत्व in the धरती 's क्रस्ट.
Iron 's very common presence in rocky ग्रह जैसे धरती is due to इसके abundant उत्पादन as a परिणाम of संलयन in high-mass सितारों, जहाँ the उत्पादन of nickel-56 ( जिससे decays to the सबसे आम समस्थानिक of आयरन ) is the last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic.
इस कल्याणकारी रेडियोसक्रिय निकल to become the पिछला तत्व to be उत्पादित पहले पतन of a supernova leads to the explosive events that scatter this precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space.
Like other group 8 elements, iron exists in a wide range of ऑक्सीकरण राज्य, −2 to +6, हालांकि +2 और +3 हैं the सबसे आम.
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids और अन्य कम ऑक्सीजन environments, लकिन is reactive to oxygen and water.
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, लकिन oxidize in सामान्य एयर to दे hydrated आयरन आक्साइड, commonly known as rust.
Unlike many other metals which रूप passivating ऑक्साइड परतों, आयरन आक्साइड occupy अधिक आवाज़ than iron metal, and thus iron oxides flake off and expose fresh surfaces for corrosion.
Iron metal रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, हालांकि तांबे alloys, जिससे have lower melting temperatures, were used first in history.
Pure iron is नरम ( softer than एल्युमिनियम ), लकिन is unobtainable by smelting.
The material is significantly hardened और strengthened by impurities इससे the smelting प्रक्रम, such as carbon.
A certain proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % और 2.1 % ) produces स्टील, जिससे may be up to 1000 टाइम्स harder than pure iron.
crude आयरन मेटल is उत्पादित in धमाका furnaces, जहाँ अयस्क is घटाया by कोक to सुअर आयरन, which has a high carbon content.
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon सामग्री to the सही proportion to मेक स्टील.
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by far the सबसे आम धातुओं in औद्योगिक उपयोग, due to उनके ग्रेट दायरा of वांछनीय गुण और the प्रचुरता of आयरन.
Iron chemical compounds, जिससे शामिल अमिश्रित और ferric यौगिकों, have many uses.
आयरन ऑक्साइड मिश्रित साथ एल्युमिनियम powder can be ignited to create a thermite reaction, used in welding and purifying ores.
It forms binary compounds with the हैलोजन्स और the chalcogens.
Among its organometallic यौगिकों is ferrocene, the पहला सैंडविच यौगिक खोजा.
Iron plays an important role in जीवविज्ञान, forming देवालय साथ आणविक ऑक्सीजन in हीमोग्लोबिन और myoglobin ; ये दो यौगिकों हैं आम oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates.
आयरन is भी the मेटल प्रयुक्त at the क्रियाशील साईट of अनेक महत्वपूर्ण रेडॉक्स एंजाइमों dealing साथ cellular respiration and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals.
The Blue Cross Blue Shield संघ ( bcbsa ) is a संघ of 38 पृथक स्वास्थ्य बीमे संगठन and companies in the United States.
Combined, they directly or indirectly provide स्वास्थ्य बीमे to over 99 million Americans.
The history of Blue Cross dates back to 1929, जबकि the इतिहास of ब्लू शील्ड तिथियाँ to 1939.
The Blue Cross संघ तिथियाँ वापस to 1960, जबकि इसके ब्लू शील्ड बंटवारा थी created in 1948.
The two organizations merged in 1982, forming the वर्तमान संघ.
A potato chip ( ज्ञात as a चिप in अमरीकी, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, नई जीलैंड, कनाडाई, singaporean, हांग काँग, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी और jamaican अंग्रेज़ी ; as a कुरकुरे in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी और hiberno-english, and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English ) is a thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy.
Potato chips are commonly परोसा as an क्षुधावर्धक, पक्ष डिश, or स्नैक.
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; अतिरिक्त किस्में हैं manufactured using विभिन्न flavorings और संघटक सहित seasonings, herbs, मसाले, cheeses, और कृत्रिम additives.
`` Crisps '', however, may भी refer to अनेक अलग प्रकार of savory स्नैक उत्पाद बेची in the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड, कुछ बना from potato, but may also be made from maize, tapioca or other cereals.
An example of ये kinds of savory स्नैक्स is दानव Munch.
Potato चिप्स हैं a predominant भाग of the स्नैक खाना मार्केट in english-speaking countries and numerous other Western nations.
The global आलू चिप मार्केट उत्पन्न कुल revenues of US $ 16.4 billion in 2005.
This accounted for 35.5 % of the कुल savory स्नैक्स मार्केट in कि साल ( us $ 46.1 billion ).
Henry Clay, Sr. ( April 12, 1777 – June 29, 1852 ) was a lawyer, politician और skilled orator जो represented केंटकी in दोनो the सीनेट और in the हाउस of Representatives.
He served three different शर्तें as स्पीकर of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और थी भी Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829.
He lost his campaigns for अध्यक्ष in 1824, 1832 और 1844.
Clay was a dominant फिगर in दोनो the पहला और दूसरी पार्टी systems.
As a leading युद्ध हॉक in 1812, he favored युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन और निभाई a significant भूमिका in अग्रणी the nation to war in the War of 1812.
In 1824 he ran for president and lost, but threw his electoral मत to जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स, जो बना उसे सचिव of राज्य as the jacksonians denounced कया वे माना a `` भ्रष्ट सौदेबाजी. ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the प्रत्याशी of the whig पार्टी, जिससे he संस्थापित और प्रायः dominated.
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System, fighting for an बढ़ाएँ in tariffs to फोस्टर उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य, the उपयोग of संघीय funding to निर्माण और maintain अवसंरचना, and a strong national bank.
He opposed the annexation of Texas, fearing it होता इंजेक्ट the गुलामी समस्या into politics.
Clay भी opposed the mexican-american युद्ध और the `` manifest नियति `` policy of Democrats, which cost him votes in the close 1844 election.
Dubbed the `` Great pacificator, '' मिट्टी brokered महत्वपूर्ण compromises दौरान the nullification संकट और on the slavery issue.
As part of the `` Great triumvirate `` or `` अमर तिकड़ी, '' साथ साथ उसके सहयोगियों डेनियल वेबस्टर और जॉन C. calhoun, he थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in formulating the Missouri Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850.
He थी viewed as the प्राथमिक प्रतिनिधि of पश्चिमी रूचि in इस समूह, और थी दिए the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star. ''
A plantation owner, मिट्टी आयोजित स्लेव दौरान उसके आजीवन लकिन freed them in his Will.
Abraham Lincoln, the Whig leader in इलिनोइस, थी a ग्रेट admirer of मिट्टी, saying he was `` my ideal of a great man. ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly समर्थित मिट्टी 's आर्थिक programs.
In 1957, a Senate Committee selected Clay as एक of the पाँच महानतम u.s. सीनेटरों, साथ साथ डेनियल वेबस्टर, जॉन C. calhoun, रॉबर्ट La Follette, and Robert Taft.
BJ 's Wholesale Club, Inc., commonly referred to simply as BJ 's, is a membership-only गोदाम क्लबों कड़ी ऑपरेटिंग on the संयुक्त राज्य ईस्ट coast, as खूब as in the राज्य of ओहियो.
The company is ranked # 232 on सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 2010 लिस्टिंग of अमेरिका 's 500 largest public corporations.
The जादूगर of oz, ज्ञात दौरान उसके शासनकाल as the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली oz, is the epithet of ऑस्कर zoroaster phadrig इसहाक़ नॉर्मन Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, a fictional character in the Land of Oz, created by American author L. Frank Baum.
The character was further popularized by the क्लासिक 1939 फिल्म, wherein उसके पूरा नाम is not mentioned.
Kristinia जेमी debarge ( ; born कूच 8, 1990 ) is an American singer, songwriter, dancer and actress.
She first appeared on national television in 2003 as a प्रतियोगी on the अमरीकी आइडल spin-off, अमरीकी juniors.
In 2009, DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records विभाग sodapop, releasing उसके डेब्यू एल्बम उजागर in जुलाई of the वही year.
The first single, `` अलविदा ``, पहुँचे the शीर्ष 20 in the US and Canada.
The lead single ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) इससे उसके बेनाम sophomore एल्बम थी released on सितंबर 27, 2012.
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of hawaiʻi at mānoa in ncaa प्रभाग I FBS college football.
The टोली is coached by Norm Chow.
It was part of the Western Athletic Conference जबतक जुलाई 2012, जब the टोली joined the Mountain West Conference.
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-AQ टोली to खेल in a bcs कटोरी खेल ; खोने to जॉर्जिया 41–10 in the शुगर कटोरी on जनवरी 1, 2008 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Marvin Gaye ( अप्रैल 2, 1939april 1, 1984 ), born मारविन pentz gay, jr., थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How मीठी it is ( to be loved by तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम कुएं और tammi terrell, बाद कमाई the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक दूर इससे the बागडोर of इसके production company.
Gaye 's बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे अनेक r & b subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul.
Following a काल in यूरोपीय अंतर्गत a कर निर्वासन in the जल्दी 1980s, gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye रै महरूम मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों, सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और the चट्टान and Roll Hall of Fame.
स्थान of chernobyl nuclear power plant
The abandoned नगर of pripyat साथ chernobyl संयंत्र in the distance
abandoned आवास ब्लॉक in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident कि occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ), जिससे थी अंतर्गत the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार of the सेंट्रल अधिकारियों of the Soviet Union.
An explosion और आग released विशाल quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into the माहौल, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the western USSR and Europe.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 मजदूर और लागत an अनुमानित 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 मौतों रै महरूम विवादित, और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers और deformities are still being accounted for.
Mrs. Claus says goodbye to उसके husband as he सेट बंद on उसके यात्रा in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus, the क्रिसमस gift-bringer in उत्तर अमरीकी और European Christmas tradition.
She is ज्ञात लिये बनाना कुकीज़ साथ the elves और तैयारी toys with her husband Santa Claus.
Her first name is a mystery, though she has been referred to as मरियम, जेसिका, layla, annette, हीदी, or Martha.
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is an open source enumerating औजार लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ originally निर्मित by merijn bellekom, और बाद sold to Trend Micro.
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking विधि, बल्कि than relying on a डेटाबेस of ज्ञात spyware.
It scans a user 's कंप्यूटर जल्दी, और प्रदर्शक ब्राउजर hijacking स्थितियाँ, showing what entries are there.
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser hijacking, as uninformed उपयोग of इसके हटाना सुविधाएं can कारण significant तन्त्र damage to a computer.
HijackThis does not हटाएँ or detect स्पाइवेयर ; it सूचियाँ सबसे आम स्थितियाँ जहाँ ब्राउजर hijacking activity can occur.
ब्राउजर hijacking can कारण मैलवेयर to be संस्थापित on a computer.
On फ़रवरी 16, 2012, ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म released the hijackthis सोर्स code as open source and it is now available on the SourceForge site.
Saddle Creek Records is an अमरीकी रिकार्ड लेबल आधारित in ओमाहा, Nebraska.
Started as a college class project on उद्यमिता, the लेबल थी संस्थापित by माइक mogis और जस्टिन oberst in 1993 ( as lumberjack Records ).
Mogis soon turned over उसके भूमिका in the कम्पनी to Robb Nansel.
the लेबल is नामित बाद काठी क्रीक सड़क, a गली कि कटौती through the ईस्ट पक्ष of midtown ओमाहा, और the beginnings of a झाँकी जिनकी सदस्यों शामिल conor oberst ( तब a सोलो कलाकार, फिलहाल of उज्जवल आँखें, conor oberst और the रहस्यवादी Valley Band, Desaparecidos and Monsters of Folk ), Tim Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia, currently of Cursive and The Good Life ), and others.
collectively, वे were known unofficially as the `` Creekers ''.
Saddle Creek first appeared in छपाई on a दिखाएँ flyer, offering to `` खर्च an संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक '' ( बाद to be the शीर्षक of the label 's DVD. )
Saddle Creek became an incorporated entity as a परिणाम of a क्लास प्रोजेक्ट on उद्यमिता.
Distribution is handled by the वैकल्पिक वितरण गठबंधन, जिससे is अंतर्गत the warner म्यूज़िक समूह umbrella.
Saddle क्रीक रिकॉर्ड continues to be the फ्लैगशिप लेबल of a स्टाइल of म्यूज़िक पुकारा `` the ओमाहा ध्वनि ``, characterized by a slight country twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, हालांकि, साथ the वृद्धि of अधिक इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ध्वनि ऐसे as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles.
the eclectic ध्वनि of काठी क्रीक 's disparate सदस्य bands is somewhat समझाया by उनके इतिहास ; a क्रमांक of the original members of the label attended grade school together.
A `` sister label '', of sorts, to काठी क्रीक is टोली प्रेम, प्रारंभ by conor oberst in 2004.
The label opened arms to उनके पहला bands नहीं आधारित in ओमाहा in 2001 साथ रिलीज by Now It 's Overhead and Sorry About Dresden.
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed, including Los Angeles 's rilo kiley, eric bachmann ( formerly नेता of archers of loaf और कुटिल उंगलियाँ इससे उत्तर कैरोलिना ), georgie जेम्स ( वॉशिंगटन D.C. ), Two Gallants ( San Francisco ), and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ).
In 2005, Spend an Evening with Saddle क्रीक, a वृत्तचित्र detailing the पहला टेन सालो of the रिकार्ड लेबल 's इतिहास, थी released.
The dvd सुविधाएँ extensive साक्षात्कार साथ the काठी क्रीक bands, archival footage, and rare live performances.
on जून 8, 2007, the लेबल खोली उनके अपना music venue named Slowdown ( after the group Slowdown Virginia ), located in downtown Omaha, Nebraska.
The following is a list of एपीसोड लिये the टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ पूरा House.
In कुल, वहीँ यहूद 192 एपीसोड फिल्माया लिये the show over the course of its eight seasons, from 1987 to 1995.
Full House is a situation comedy which chronicles a widowed पिता 's struggles of उठाने उसके तीन यंग बेटियां और the जीवनदान कि वे have छुआ.
The patriarch of the family, Danny ( Bob Saget ), invites his brother-in-law Jesse ( John Stamos ) and his best friend Joey ( Dave coulier ), to सहायता उठाएँ उसके children ( candace cameron, jodie sweetin, और मरियम kate/ashley olsen ), बाद उसके बीवी थी मारे दौरान an ऑटोमोबाइल दुर्घटना involving a नशे ड्राइवर.
After episodes 88 और 89, जेसी marries बेकी ( लोरी loughlin ), और they move into the attic.
तब, बाद एपीसोड 104 और 105, बेकी और जेसी have जुड़वा लड़कों नामित Nicky and Alex ( Daniel and Kevin Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ).
The series ends with episode 192, `` मिशेल यात्राएँ again भाग 2 '', जब मिशेल loses उसके मेमोरी and the family tries to restore it.
सूचना of स्टैम्प अधिनियम of 1765 in Newspaper
अमरीकी अखबारों reacted to the स्टैम्प अधिनियम with anger and predictions of the demise of journalism.
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in अमरीकी colonies अधिनियम 1765 ; 5 जार्ज iii, c. 12 ) imposed a सीधा कर by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट specifically on the colonies of अंग्रेजों अमेरिका, और it जरूरी कि अनेक मुद्रित सामग्री in the colonies be produced on stamped paper produced in London, carrying an embossed revenue stamp.
These printed materials यहूद विधिक दस्तावेज़, मैगज़ीन, अखबारों और अनेक अन्य प्रकार of पेपर used throughout the colonies.
Like पिछला कर, the स्टैम्प कर था to be सशुल्क in मान्य अंग्रेजों करेंसी, not in colonial paper money.
The purpose of the tax was to help अदा लिये सैनिकों stationed in उत्तर अमेरिका बाद the अंग्रेजों victory in the Seven Years ' War.
The British government felt that the colonies यहूद the प्राथमिक beneficiaries of इस सैन्य उपस्थिति, और चाहिए pay at least a portion of the expense.
The स्टैम्प अधिनियम मिले ग्रेट प्रतिरोध in the colonies.
The colonies भेजा no प्रतिनिधि to पार्लियामेंट, और इसलिए था no influence over कया कर यहूद उठाया, how they were levied, or how they would be spent.
Many colonists considered it a violation of उनके अधिकारों as अंग्रेजो to be taxed बगैर उनके सहमति —consent that only the colonial legislatures could grant.
Colonial सभाओं भेजा याचिकाएं और विरोध.
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City, reflecting the first significant संयुक्त औपनिवेशिक जवाब to कोई अंग्रेजों माप, also petitioned Parliament and the King.
लोकल विरोध समूह, led by औपनिवेशिक व्यापारियों और landowners, स्थापित connections through correspondence that created a loose coalition that extended from New England to Georgia.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the बेटे of स्वतंत्रता प्रायः turned हिंसक और destructive as the masses became involved.
Very जल्द सब स्टैम्प कर वितरकों यहूद सहमे into resigning their commissions, and the tax was never effectively collected.
Opposition to the Stamp Act थी नहीं सीमित to the colonies.
British merchants and निर्माताओं, जिनकी निर्यात to the colonies यहूद threatened by औपनिवेशिक आर्थिक समस्याएं exacerbated by the tax, also pressured Parliament.
The Act was repealed on March 18, 1766 as a matter of expedience, लकिन पार्लियामेंट affirmed इसके शक्ति to legislate लिये the colonies “in सब मामले whatsoever” by भी गुजर the Declaratory Act.
There followed a श्रेणी of नई कर और regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
The episode played a major role in defining the grievances और enabling the व्यवस्थित औपनिवेशिक प्रतिरोध कि led to the American Revolution in 1775.
PT-105 underway.
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed तेज़ आक्रमण शिल्प प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी in संसार War II to attack larger surface ships.
`` PT '' is the US hull वर्गीकरण प्रतीक लिये `` पैट्रोल torpedo ''.
The pt नाव squadrons यहूद nicknamed `` the मच्छर fleet ''.
The Japanese पुकारा उन्हें `` शैतान नौकाएँ ''.
The असली pre– संसार युद्ध i torpedo नौकाएँ यहूद designed साथ `` displacement '' hulls.
वे विस्थापित up to 300 टन और the top speed was.
The PT boats used in World War II were built using the planing -type हल रूप विकसित लिये रेसिंग boats.
वे यहूद much छोटी ( 30–75 टन ) and faster ( 35–40 knots ).
Both types were designed to strike at larger warships साथ torpedoes, using अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची गति to मिलेंगी बंद, और छोटी आकार to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire.
They were much less महंगी than विशाल warships.
PT boats यहूद much तेज़, छोटी, और सस्ता than conventional ( displacement hull ) vessels.
During World War II, American PT boats सगाई दुश्मन destroyers और numerous अन्य सतह शिल्प, ranging इससे छोटी boats to large supply ships.
PT boats also operated as gunboats विरूद्ध दुश्मन छोटी शिल्प, ऐसे as कराया barges प्रयुक्त by the जापानी शक्तियां for inter-island transport.
Good Friday is a religious holiday observed primarily by ईसाइयों commemorating the crucifixion of यीशु मसीह और उसके मौत at कलवारी.
The holiday is observed during Holy Week as भाग of the paschal triduum on the शुक्रवार preceding ईस्टर संडे, और may coincide साथ the Jewish observance of Passover.
It is also ज्ञात as पावन शुक्रवार, ग्रेट शुक्रवार, ब्लैक शुक्रवार, or ईस्टर शुक्रवार, though the latter properly refers to the Friday in Easter week.
Based on the details of the canonical gospels, the crucifixion of यीशु थी सबसे संभावित to have been on a Friday ( the day before the Sabbath ) ( ).
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33, by two different groups, and originally as AD 34 by इसहाक़ न्यूटन via the मतभेद between the biblical और जूलियन पंचांग और the crescent of the moon.
A third method, using a completely different खगोलीय दृष्टिकोण आधारित on a चंद्र crucifixion अंधेरा और ग्रहण मॉडल ( सतत साथ apostle पीटर 's सन्दर्भ to a `` चंद्रमा of रक्त '' in अधिनियमों 2:20 ), points to Friday, 3 April AD 33.
The Great जलाशय is the largest क्षेत्रफल of endorheic watersheds in North America.
It is noted for both its arid conditions and its Basin and range topography that varies from the North अमरीकी कम पाइंट at badwater जलाशय to the उच्चतम पाइंट of the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य, कम than दूर at the समिट of Mount Whitney.
The region spans अनेक physiographic विभाजन, biomes / ecoregions, and deserts.
रास्टर may refer to:
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स, आलेखीय तकनीकों using arrays of pixel values
Raster ग्राफिक्स एडिटर, a कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम
Raster scan, the pattern of image readout, हस्तांतरण, भंडार, और पुनर्निर्माण in टेलीविज़न और कंप्यूटर images
rasterisation, or rasterization, परिवर्तन of a वेक्टर image to a raster image
रास्टर चित्र प्रोसेसर, or rip, a घटक of a मुद्रण system that performs rasterisation
रास्टर इन्टरनेट, a कंप्यूटर interrupt signal
Raster to vector, an चित्र परिवर्तन प्रक्रम
Raster बार, an प्रभाव प्रयुक्त in कंप्यूटर demos
raster-noton, a रिकार्ड label
rastrum, a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in मध्यकालीन म्यूज़िक manuscripts to draw staff lines
रास्टर दस्तावेज़ ऑब्जेक्ट, a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and later turned king in the एपिक कविता नामित बाद उसे, एक of the oldest surviving टुकड़े of साहित्य in the English language.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of पर्ल हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी विरूद्ध the संयुक्त States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई Time.
The attack was intended as a निवारक कार्रवाई in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The आधार थी attacked by 353 जापानी सेनानी, बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in दो लहरें, शुभारम्भ from six aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. Navy battleships यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त, साथ चार होने sunk.
दो of ये यहूद बाद उठाया, और with the remaining four repaired, six battleships returned to service later in the war.
The जापानी भी sank or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 u.S. वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 अमेरिकी were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन ( भी घर of the प्रज्ञा खण्ड ) यहूद नहीं attacked.
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and पाँच midget submarines खोया, और 65 servicemen मारे or wounded.
One जापानी नाविक थी captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people और led सीधे to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into संसार युद्ध ii in दोनो the प्रशांत और यूरोपीय थिएटर.
The following day ( December 8 ), the संयुक्त राज्य घोषित युद्ध on Japan.
घरेलू support लिये non-interventionism, which had been strong, disappeared.
clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( लिये उदाहरण the neutrality पैट्रोल ) was replaced by active alliance.
Subsequent operations by the u.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on दिसम्बर 11, जिससे थी reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents लिये unannounced सैन्य कार्रवाई by जापानी.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led President फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7, 1941, `` a तिथि जिससे होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
u.S. रूट 85 ( us 85 ) is a north–south संयुक्त राज्य राजमार्ग कि रनों लिये in the पहाड़ - Northern Plains states of the United States.
The southern terminus of the route is at the संयुक्त states-mexico किनारा in el पासो, टेक्सास, connecting साथ Mexican Federal Highway 45.
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada border in Fortuna, North Dakota, जहाँ the रूट continues उत्तर as saskatchewan राजमार्ग 35.
In both the United States and saskatchewan, कनाडा the रूट is ज्ञात as the CanAm Highway.
Sections of us 85 हैं माना भाग of the थियोडोर Roosevelt Expressway.
The United States presidential election of 1968 थी the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, पूर्व vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जीती the चुनाव over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's शहरों, torn by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि had dominated presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson जीती in a ऐतिहासिक भूस्खलन, the चुनाव देखी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. कैनेडी, फैली विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध आरपार विश्वविद्यालयों campuses, और हिंसक confrontations between पुलिस और anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest third party effort चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा राज्यपाल जार्ज वालेस, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end school segregation, he carried the गहन दक्षिण और भागा खूब in जातीय औद्योगिक जिले in the उत्तर.
This was the last चुनाव in जिससे नई यॉर्क था the सबसे मत in the चुनावी कॉलेज ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 जनसांख्यिकी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे चुनावी मत और रै remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest election where a अध्यक्षीय टिकट जीती बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's घर state.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in उपयोक्ता, और प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly, e.g, `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर '', `` विस्तारित कार्य मैनेजर '', `` anvir कार्य मैनेजर '', `` प्रक्रम हैकर '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can भी be प्रयुक्त to नियत प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं, प्रोसेसर अपनापन, forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं, और shut down, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
Windows Task मैनेजर थी introduced साथ Windows NT 4.0.
Previous versions of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग, जिससे था दूर कम features.
The task list was capable of लिस्टिंग फिलहाल कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें, or बनाना a नई प्रक्रम.
In Windows XP only, a Shutdown menu is also present that allows access to standby, hibernate, फेरे बंद, restart, log बंद और स्विच User.
Earlier versions of microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, खिड़कियाँ 95, खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running.
इस संचिका थी चलाया by कार्यशील the taskman.exe संचिका from the C : \Windows directory.
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic चाइनीज वर्ण ( hanzi ) कि हैं प्रयुक्त in the आधुनिक जापानी लिखने प्रणाली साथ साथ hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), Hindu-Arabic numerals, and the occasional use of the Latin alphabet.
The Japanese term kanji ( ) लिये the चाइनीज वर्ण वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` हान वर्ण '' और is लिखा using the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ).
John R विलियम्स ( may 4, 1782 – अक्तूबर 20, 1854 ) थी an अमरीकी सिपाही, व्यापारी, और राजनेता जो is सबसे well known for serving as the first mayor of Detroit, Michigan.
In total, he परोसा as डेट्रॉयट 's महापौर लिये पाँच अन्य शर्तें.
he भी थी a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the संयुक्त राज्य फौज during the Black Hawk War.
A simple शुष्क चुम्बकीय पोर्टेबल कम्पास.
A स्मार्टफोन कि can be प्रयुक्त as a कम्पास क्युकी of the magnetometer inside.
An iPhone that can be used as a geological कम्पास क्युकी of the 3-axis teslameter और 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A सैन्य कम्पास कि थी प्रयुक्त दौरान World War I.
A compass is a navigational instrument that shows दिशानिर्देश in a फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ कि is stationary सापेक्ष to the surface of the earth.
The frame of reference defines the चार कार्डिनल दिशानिर्देश ( or अंक ) – उत्तर, दक्षिण, ईस्ट, और west.
Intermediate दिशानिर्देश हैं भी पारिभाषित.
प्रायः, a आरेख पुकारा a कम्पास रोज़, जिससे shows the दिशानिर्देश ( साथ their names usually abbreviated to initials ), is marked on the compass.
When the compass is in use, the rose is लकीर साथ the रियल दिशानिर्देश in the फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ, so, लिये उदाहरण, the `` n '' चिह्नित on the रोज़ वाकई points to the north.
Frequently, in addition to the रोज़ or sometimes बजाय of it, कोण markings in डिग्री हैं दिखाया on the compass.
North corresponds to zero degrees, and the कोण बढ़ाएँ clockwise, so ईस्ट is 90 डिग्री, दक्षिण is 180, and west is 270.
These numbers allow the compass to show azimuths or बियरिंग, जिससे हैं commonly stated in इस संकेतन.
The magnetic compass was first invented as a device for भविष्यवाणी as जल्दी as the चाइनीज हान राजवंश ( चूंकि परिचय 206 BC ).
The compass was used in Song Dynasty China by the military for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, और थी प्रयुक्त लिये मेरीटाइम नेविगेशन by 1111 to 1117.
The use of a कम्पास is अंकित in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय between 1187 और 1202, और in Persia in 1232.
The dry compass was invented in यूरोपीय around 1300.
This was supplanted in the जल्दी 20th सदी by the liquid-filled चुम्बकीय compass.
The Inca Empire or inka साम्राज्य ( quechua : tawantinsuyu ) थी the largest empire in pre-Columbian America.
The administrative, political and military बीच of the साम्राज्य थी स्तिथ in Cusco in modern-day Peru.
The Inca सभ्यता arose इससे the हाइलैंड्स of पेरू sometime in the जल्दी 13th century.
From 1438 to 1533, the Incas used a variety of methods, from conquest to peaceful assimilation, to incorporate a large portion of western South America, centered on the Andean mountain ranges, including, besides पेरू, विशाल भाग of आधुनिक इक्वाडोर, पश्चिमी और दक्षिण सेंट्रल बोलीविया, उत्तरपश्चिम अर्जेंटीना, उत्तर और सेंट्रल चिली, और दक्षिणी कोलंबिया into a राज्य comparable to the ऐतिहासिक empires of Eurasia.
The official language of the empire was Quechua, हालांकि सैंकड़ों of लोकल भाषाएं और dialects of quechua यहूद spoken.
The Inca referred to their empire as tawantinsuyu जिससे can be अनूदित as the चार regions or the चार संयुक्त Provinces.
There were many local forms of worship, most of them concerning local sacred `` Huacas ``, but the Inca leadership प्रोत्साहित the इबादत of inti —the सूर्य god—and imposed इसके प्रभुता ऊपर अन्य cults ऐसे as कि of pachamama.
The Incas considered their किंग, the sapa इन्का, to be the `` चाइल्ड of the sun. ''
The गुर्दे हैं अंगों कि serve अनेक अनिवार्य नियामक भूमिकाएँ in सबसे पशु, including vertebrates and some invertebrates.
They are essential in the urinary प्रणाली और भी serve homeostatic कृत्यों ऐसे as the विनियमन of इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स, मेंटेनेंस of acid–base संतुलन, and regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance ).
They serve the body as a प्राकृतिक फिल्टर of the रक्त, और हटाएँ wastes जिससे हैं diverted to the urinary bladder.
In producing urine, the kidneys excrete wastes ऐसे as यूरिया और अमोनियम, और वे हैं भी जिम्मेदार लिये the reabsorption of water, glucose, and amino acids.
The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol, erythropoietin, और the एंजाइम renin.
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum, the गुर्दे प्राप्त रक्त इससे the युग्म renal arteries, and drain into the paired renal veins.
Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter, itself a युग्म ढांचा कि empties into the urinary ब्लैडर.
Renal physiology is the study of गुर्दा फलन, जबकि nephrology is the चिकित्सा specialty चिंतित with kidney diseases.
Diseases of the गुर्दा हैं विविध, लकिन individuals with kidney disease frequently display characteristic clinical features.
Common clinical conditions involving the गुर्दा शामिल the nephritic और nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, अधि गुर्दा चोट, chronic kidney disease, urinary tract infection, nephrolithiasis, and urinary tract obstruction.
Various cancers of the गुर्दा मौजूद ; the सबसे आम वयस्क renal cancer is renal cell carcinoma.
Cancers, cysts, और कुछ अन्य renal शर्तें can be प्रबंधित साथ हटाना of the गुर्दा, or nephrectomy.
जब renal फलन, measured by glomerular filtration rate, is persistently poor, dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options.
Although they are not severely नुकसानदेह, गुर्दा पत्थरों can be दुखद और a nuisance.
The removal of kidney stones involves अल्ट्रासाउंड उपचार to ब्रेक up the पत्थरों into छोटी टुकड़े, which are then passed through the urinary tract.
One common symptom of गुर्दा पत्थरों is a शार्प पीड़ा in the medial/lateral खण्ड of the lower back.
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately आयोजित बीमे brokerage कड़, providing बीमे, रिस्क प्रबन्धन and employee benefits solutions.
In जोड to इसके कान्सास नगर, मिसौरी मुख्यालय, lockton operates 60 स्थितियाँ in 17 countries.
Lockton is currently home to अधिक than 4,450 शरीक विश्वव्यापी.
the कम्पनी थी संस्थापित by जोकर lockton in 1966 और रै चूंकि become the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm.
Lockton serves a wide array of industries with services कि शामिल रिस्क प्रबन्धन, casualty, surety, पेशेवर indemnity और अधिक.
For 46 years, Lockton posted असाधारण सशुल्क विकास, साथ वैश्विक revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal 2012.
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s team works closely साथ बीमे वाहक और प्रशासकों to बनाएँ व्यापक और एकीकृत लाभ रणनीति for clients.
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including अनुपालन, कार्यपालिका लाभ, स्वास्थ्य और welfare, स्वास्थ्य रिस्क समाधान, retirement and more.
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity, an affiliate of Lockton Companies, meets the insurance needs of affinity groups, franchises, पेशेवर संगठन, और एसोसिएशन of all sizes.
lockton अपनापन offers a किस्में of बीमे उत्पाद options and programs.
Products include : General Liability, Professional Liability, प्रॉपर्टी, मजदूर मुआवजे, निर्देशकों & अधिकारियों देयता, वाणिज्यिक स्वचालित, specialty कवरेज, excess, स्वास्थ्य योजनाएँ and more.
Lockton International : Lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय operates कार्यालयों in the uk और आयरलैंड, as खूब as कार्यालयों throughout एशिया and Latin America.
In Europe, Lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय is a संगी in eos risq, europe’s अग्रणी बीमे ब्रोकिंग and risk management consultancy.
EOS RISQ is an equity-based European साझेदारी of प्रमुख स्वतंत्र बीमे brokers साथ over 3,500 कर्मचारी आधारित in अधिक than 30 countries in Europe.
Lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय provides specialized समाधान लिये निजी लाइनों, SME’s and major multi-national clients.
White चॉकलेट is a चॉकलेट डेरिवेटिव.
It commonly consists of cocoa मक्खन, शुगर, मिल्क solids और नमक, और is characterized by a pale yellow or ivory appearance.
The melting point of cocoa butter, its प्राथमिक cocoa सेम घटक, is ऊँची पर्याप्त to रखना श्वेत चॉकलेट ठोस at room temperature.
Donald Leon `` डॉन '' blankenship ( born कूच 14, 1950 ) थी अध्यक्ष और सीईओ of massey उर्जा co., the sixth largest coal company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States.
He served in those भूमिकाएँ इससे नवम्बर 30, 2000, जबतक December 31, 2010.
Blankenship is an active वित्तीय backer of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और भागीदार in लोकल और राज्य राजनीती, especially in his home state of West Virginia.
He has frequently spoken out सरेआम परिचय राजनीती, the environment, unions, and coal production.
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings show blankenship थी सशुल्क $ 17.8 लाख in 2009, the उच्चतम in the कोयले industry.
His 2009 pay represents a $ 6.8 million उठाएँ over 2008 और लगभग दोगुना उसके मुआवजे पैकेज in 2007.
Blankenship also प्राप्त a deferred मुआवजे पैकेज valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009.
On December 3, 2010, Blankenship घोषित कि he थी retiring as सीईओ at the समाप्त of the साल, और होता be succeeded by massey अध्यक्ष बैक्सटर F. phillips jr.
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेज़ी to describe a श्वान 's bark.
धनुष wow may भी refer to:
Bow wow ( बैंड ), a जापानी मुश्किल rock/heavy metal band
Bow wow ( rapper ), an अमरीकी rapper and actor
धनुष wow सॉस, a सॉस विकसित in the Cotswolds region of England
Bow Wow Wow, a uk नई वेव बैंड
`` Bow Wow '', a song by the fiery furnaces इससे उनके 2003 एल्बम Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( my मामा दावत me जैसे a श्वान ) '', a सोंग रचित in the 1920s by चट्टान dost & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat. negligentia, इससे neglegere, to उपेक्षा, वस्तुतः `` नहीं to चुनें up कुछ '' ) is a विफलता to कसरत the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances.
The क्षेत्रफल of अपकृत्य विधि ज्ञात as लापरवाही involves harm caused by carelessness, not intentional harm.
According to jay M. feinman of the rutgers विश्वविद्यालयों School of Law ;
`` The core idea of लापरवाही is कि लोगों चाहिए कसरत उचित परवाह जब वे अधिनियम by लेने खाता of the संभावित नुक़सान कि वे might foreseeably cause harm to other people. ''
`` those who go personally or bring property where they know that they or it may come into टक्कर साथ the व्यक्तियों or प्रॉपर्टी of अन्य have by विधि a ड्यूटी डाल upon उन्हें to उपयोग उचित परवाह और कौशल to avoid ऐसे a collision. ''
Fletcher v Rylands ( [ 1866 ] lr 1 ex 265 )
Through civil litigation, if an घायल व्यक्ति proves कि another व्यक्ति acted negligently to कारण उनके चोट, वे can recover damages to compensate for their harm.
Proving a मामला लिये लापरवाही can potentially entitle the घायल अभियोक्ता to मुआवजे लिये harm to their body, property, mental well-being, financial status, or intimate relationships.
However, because negligence cases are very fact-specific, this सामान्य परिभाषा करता नहीं fully बताइये the अवधारणा of जब the विधि होगा आवश्यकता एक व्यक्ति to compensate another for losses caused by accidental injury.
Further, the विधि of लापरवाही at आम विधि is तभी एक पहलू of the law of liability.
Although resulting damages must be सिद्ध in अनुक्रम to रिकवर मुआवजे in a लापरवाही कार्रवाई, the प्रकृति और extent of those क्षतिपूर्ति are not the primary focus of negligence cases.
A melanocytic nevus ( भी ज्ञात as `` nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type of lesion that contains nevus cells ( a type of melanocyte ).
Some sources equate the पद mole साथ `` melanocytic nevus ''.
Other स्त्रोत आरक्षित the पद `` mole '' लिये other purposes.
The majority of moles appear during the first two decades of a person’s जीवन, जबकि परिचय एक in प्रत्येक 100 शिशु is born with moles.
Acquired moles are a रूप of benign फुलाव, जबकि जन्मजात औज़ार, or जन्मजात nevi, हैं माना a नाबालिग malformation or hamartoma and may be at a higher risk for melanoma.
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a pigmented विकास on the स्किन, formed ज़्यादातर of a प्रकार of cell known as a melanocyte.
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting एजेंट, मेलेनिन, is जिम्मेदार लिये उनके अंधेरा रंग.
Moles are a सदस्य of the परिवार of स्किन lesions ज्ञात as nevi.
The comprehensive metabolic panel, or chemical स्क्रीन, ( cmp ; cpt कोड 80053 ) is a फलक of 14 रक्त परीक्षण जिससे serves as an आरंभिक व्यापक चिकित्सा स्क्रीनिंग tool.
The CMP provides a rough check of गुर्दा फलन, जिगर फलन, और electrolyte और fluid balance, but it is far from perfect.
असामान्य मान इससे a cbc may be a परिणाम of गलत positives और यूँ the cbc may need to be दोहराया लिये a patient ( or replaced with a more specific test ).
The CMP is an expanded संस्करण of the मौलिक metabolic फलक ( bmp ), जिससे करता नहीं शामिल जिगर tests.
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of a routine physical examination, or may be प्रयुक्त to मॉनिटर a रोगी साथ a दीर्घकालिक बीमारी, ऐसे as मधुमेह mellitus or hypertension.
Previous names for the panel of tests have been Chem 12, Chemistry panel, रसायन स्क्रीन, sma 12, sma 20 और smac ( sequential अनेक विश्लेषण - कंप्यूटर ).
The tests are performed on मशीने आधारित on the autoanalyzer invented in 1957.
Natural gas निष्कर्षण by देशों in घन मीटर per year.
Natural gas is a naturally occurring हाइड्रोकार्बन गैस मिश्रण consisting primarily of मिथेन, लकिन commonly सहित varying amounts of other hydrocarbons, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and hydrogen sulfide.
Natural गैस is an उर्जा सोर्स प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये हीटिंग, कुकिंग, और electricity generation.
It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as a रासायनिक फर्टिलाइजर in the manufacture of प्लास्टिक और अन्य commercially महत्वपूर्ण organic chemicals.
Natural गैस is मिला in गहन भूमिगत प्राकृतिक चट्टान formations or संबद्ध साथ अन्य हाइड्रोकार्बन टंकी in कोयले beds and as methane clathrates.
Petroleum is भी another संसाधन मिला in निकटता to and with natural gas.
Most natural gas was created over समय by दो mechanisms : biogenic और thermogenic.
Biogenic गैस is निर्मित by methanogenic जीवों in marshes, bogs, landfills, and shallow sediments.
Deeper in the earth, at greater temperature और दबाव, thermogenic गैस is निर्मित इससे दफ्न सशुल्क सामग्री.
पहले प्राकृतिक गैस can be प्रयुक्त as a ईंधन, it जरूर undergo प्रसंस्करण to हटाएँ impurities, सहित water, to meet the specifications of marketable natural gas.
The by-products of प्रसंस्करण शामिल इथेन, प्रोपेन, butanes, pentanes, और उच्चतर आणविक वज़न hydrocarbons, हाइड्रोजन sulfide ( जिससे may be converted into pure sulfur ), carbon dioxide, water vapor, and sometimes helium and nitrogen.
Natural gas is often informally referred to बस as गैस, विशेषकर जब compared to other energy sources such as oil or coal.
This page is about the कल्पना मूवर्स बैंड.
For information about the tv दिखाएँ अभिनीत the बैंड, देखिए कल्पना मूवर्स ( TV series ).
कल्पना मूवर्स is a बैंड formed in नई Orleans, Louisiana, in 2003.
The lineup includes Rich कॉलिन्स, स्कॉट durbin, डेव poche, और स्कॉट `` smitty '' Smith.
Members of the समूह यहूद longtime मित्रों and neighbors.
The group started as a television/music concept जिससे थी pitched to लोकल pbs affiliates in नई Orleans.
WLAE-TV was the first to लो an ब्याज in the समूह और बाद introduced उन्हें to बेथ कोर्टनी, the अध्यक्ष & Chief Executive Officer at Louisiana Public Broadcasting.
Soon after, LPB began airing one-minute वीडियो उत्पादित by the कल्पना मूवर्स themselves.
The Movers built a sizable क्षेत्रीय following by सेटिंग शैक्षणिक गीतों लिये बच्चे to melodies and rhythms that adults appreciate as well.
They sold more than 100,000 नक़ल of उनके self-produced cds and DVDs.
Their three इंडी cds : `` शुभ विचार, '' `` कॉलिंग सब मूवर्स, '' और `` आठ फीट '' साथ साथ उनके ग्रास जड़ें dvd `` Stir It Up '' have, combined, won fourteen national awards, from such groups as the National Association of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice.
In early 2005, डिज़्नी took सूचना, और initiated negotiations to add the मूवर्स to the company 's roster.
These were बाधित in अगस्त जब the बाढ़ सुरक्षा designed और निर्मित by the फौज corps of Engineers to protect New Orleans failed.
The resulting floodwater claimed the band 's दफ्तर, as खूब as the घरों of कॉलिन्स, durbin और poche – लकिन the deal was signed in the spring of 2006.
In 2008, Walt Disney Records introduced the Imagination मूवर्स ' म्यूज़िक to the स्वदेश साथ the रिलीज of the मूवर्स ' पहला nationally-released cd, `` रस बक्सा Heroes. ''
In September 2008, a 30-minute दिखाएँ featuring the समूह began airing on the डिज़्नी चैनल 's प्रीस्कूल प्रोग्रामिंग ब्लाक ज्ञात as playhouse डिज़्नी, and currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement, Disney Junior.
The Movers write and perform सब the गीतों on उनके दिखाएँ.
Moreover, the कल्पना मूवर्स have प्राप्त नाजुक kudos लिये उनके live concert performances.
In October 2009, the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रारंभ the `` सजीव इससे the विचार गोदाम Concert Tour 2009 ''.
Traveling from mid-October to mid-december 2009 उनके सजीव प्रदर्शन शामिल लोट of उनके पसंदीदा गीतों और नाचना, as खूब as वीडियो दिखावे of Warehouse Mouse.
Beginning in early-February 2011 और wrapping up in लेट may 2011, the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रस्तुत उनके `` in a बिग गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट Tour, '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities across North America.
From March to October 2012, the Imagination Movers toured उत्तर अमेरिका on उनके post-disney `` rock-o-matic '' tour.
The show maintained अनेक तत्व of the असली tv अवधारणा, ऐसे as an on-stage `` विचार आपात '' और अनेक सेट इससे उनके पुरानी कैटलॉग ; however, साथ the प्रस्थान of वेन्डी calio back to her native Hawaii, the character `` Nina '', along with her musical numbers, is not present.
The tour promotes the कल्पना मूवर्स ' नई album/dvd रिलीज, `` Rock-O-Matic '', which features all new music from the band.
The album itself is produced independently of डिज़्नी और रै a notably अधिक वयस्क, समकालीन rock-and-roll ध्वनि, हालांकि स्टिल बहुत appropriate for children.
Several प्रदर्शन तिथियाँ यहूद स्थानांतरित to बाद in 2012 to लाभ इससे the increased एक्सपोज़र of the कल्पना मूवर्स tv दिखाएँ अभी playing रोज़ on Disney Junior.
the platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania.
Together with the four species of एकिडना, it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the तभी स्तनधारियों कि lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the एकमात्र जीना प्रतिनिधि of इसके परिवार ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a number of related species have been found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of इस egg-laying, बतख -billed, बीवर -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे पहला encountered it, साथ some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर कि delivers a venom सक्षम of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus मेक it an महत्वपूर्ण विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the एनिमल emblem of the राज्य of नई दक्षिण वेल्स.
Until the early 20th सदी, it थी hunted लिये इसके फर, लकिन it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have था तभी सीमित कामयाबी और the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of प्रदूषण, it is not under any immediate threat.
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras (, from chupar `` to suck '' और cabra `` बकरी '', वस्तुतः `` बकरी चूषक '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas.
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto रीको ( जहाँ ये sightings यहूद पहला reported ), मैक्सिको, और the संयुक्त राज्य, विशेषकर in the latter 's लैटिन American communities.
the नाम आता इससे the एनिमल 's reported आदत of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock, especially goats.
Physical descriptions of the प्राणी vary.
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in प्यूर्टो रीको, और have चूंकि महरूम reported as दूर उत्तर as maine, और as दूर दक्षिण as चिली, और भी होने spotted बाहर the americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines.
It is माना a भारी प्राणी, the आकार of a छोटी भालू, साथ a पंक्ति of spines reaching from the neck to the base of the tail.
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have been disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking प्रमाण, जबकि सबसे रिपोर्ट्स in उत्तरी मैक्सिको और the दक्षिणी संयुक्त राज्य have महरूम सत्यापित as canids afflicted by mange.
Biologists and wildlife प्रबन्धन officials दृश्य the chupacabra as a contemporary legend.
The North American Free Trade Agreement ( nafta ) is an अनुबंध हस्ताक्षरित by कनाडा, मैक्सिको, और the संयुक्त राज्य, बनाना a trilateral व्यापार bloc in North America.
The अनुबंध आए into फ़ोर्स on January 1, 1994.
It superseded the canada–united राज्य फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध between the u.S., कनाडा, और Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American Agreement on Environmental सहयोग ( naaec ) और the उत्तर अमरीकी अनुबंध on मजदूर सहयोग ( naalc ).
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses satisfaction with the थर्मल पर्यावरण और is assessed by subjective मूल्यांकन ( ansi / ASHRAE Standard 55 ).
maintaining इस मानक of थर्मल सुकून लिये occupants of इमारतें or अन्य enclosures is एक of the महत्वपूर्ण लक्ष्य of HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air conditioning ) design engineers.
The Predicted Mean Vote ( PMV ) model stands among the सबसे पहचाना थर्मल सुकून मॉडल.
It was developed using principles of heat balance and प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु कक्ष अंतर्गत स्थिर राज्य शर्तें.
Because the PMV model was derived from data एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु, it is नहीं उपयुक्त लिये अनुप्रयोग in naturally हवादार स्पेसेस जिससे प्रायः have ऊँची स्तर of एयर movement.
This shortcoming motivated the विकास of a परिवार of अनुभवजन्य सांख्यिकीय मॉडल of थर्मल सुकून in naturally हवादार spaces known as adaptive models.
Adaptive models of थर्मल सुकून consider occupants as dynamically interacting साथ उनके पर्यावरण, और controlling their thermal comfort by means of clothing or window-opening and closing.
This is in contrast to thermal comfort in sealed buildings, in जिससे occupants अनुभव the पर्यावरण passively.
Thermal comfort is affected by heat conduction, convection, विकिरण, और evaporative ऊष्मा घाटा.
Thermal comfort is maintained when the heat generated by इंसान चयापचय is अनुमत to dissipate, यूँ maintaining थर्मल संतुलन साथ the surroundings.
it रै महरूम long पहचाना कि the सनसनी of अहसास hot or ठंडा is not just dependent on air temperature alone.
Thermal comfort calculations according to ansi/ashrae मानक 55 can be freely performed साथ the cbe थर्मल Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55.
Durante degli Alighieri, simply referred to as दांते (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), थी a प्रमुख इतालवी कवि of the मध्य Ages.
His Divine Comedy, originally called ' and later called ' by Boccaccio, is widely considered the greatest साहित्यिक कार्य रचित in the इतालवी भाषा और a कलाकृति of संसार literature.
in इटली he is ज्ञात as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet '' ) or just '.
He, petrarch और boccaccio हैं भी ज्ञात as `` the तीन fountains '' or `` the three crowns ''.
दांते is भी पुकारा the `` पिता of the Italian language ''.
मुख्यालय ( कोबे, Japan )
( ) is a टायर और रबर कम्पनी आधारित in Japan.
It is भाग of the sumitomo समूह.
The company traces इसके origins to 1909, जब the sumitomo समूह बना an निवेश in dunlop जापानी, the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the British company Dunlop Rubber.
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a close कारोबार संबंध, और in 1963 the sumitomo समूह acquired कंट्रोल of dunlop जापानी और renamed it sumitomo रबर उद्योग Ltd.
In 1985, when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by BTR plc, the company acquired the ऑटोमोबाइल टायर एसेट of dunlop, सहित the सही to उपयोग the dunlop ब्रांड on ऑटोमोबाइल tires.
The acquisition किया नहीं शामिल the us और ऑस्ट्रेलियाई व्यवसायों, जिससे यहूद separately स्वामित्व, लकिन in 1986 sumitomo भी acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US from its management.
In 1997, sumitomo formed a संयुक्त venture साथ goodyear टायर और रबर कम्पनी, by जिससे goodyear और sumitomo सहमत to manufacture टायर for each other 's markets, including Dunlop branded tires.
As भाग of the अनुबंध, goodyear acquired 75 % रूचि in dunlop टायर, the uk company which Sumitomo had formed, and in Dunlop Tire Corporation.
goodyear और sumitomo भी बना investments in each other.
Today, the company makes a wide range of रबर आधारित उत्पाद, सहित ऑटोमोबाइल tires, golf balls and tennis balls.
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware एकीकृत विकास environments ( आईडीई ) विकसित by microsoft कि हैं lightweight संस्करण of the microsoft विज़ुअल Studio product line.
एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण यहूद conceived शुरूआत with Visual Studio 2005.
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use और easy-to-learn ides लिये उपयोक्ता अन्य than पेशेवर तन्त्र डेवलपर, ऐसे as hobbyists and students.
The Alps हैं एक of the ग्रेट पहाड़ दायरा प्रणालियों of यूरोपीय stretching लगभग आरपार आठ अल्पाइन देशों from Austria and Slovenia in the east, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Germany, France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south.
The mountains यहूद formed over सैंकड़ों of लाखो of सालो as the अफ़्रीकी और यूरेशियाई tectonic plates collided.
Extreme shortening caused by the इवेंट resulted in समुद्री sedimentary रॉक्स उठती by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn.
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian किनारा, और at is the उच्चतम पहाड़ in the ऐल्प्स.
the अल्पाइन प्रदेश क्षेत्रफल contains many peaks higher than, known as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The altitude and size of the range affects the climate in Europe ; in the kyu वर्षण स्तर vary greatly और climatic शर्तें consist of पृथक zones.
Wildlife such as ibex सजीव in the उच्चतर चोटियों to elevations of, और पौधे ऐसे as edelweiss grow in rocky areas in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations.
Evidence of इंसान habitation in the ऐल्प्स goes वापस to the paleolithic era.
A mummified man, determined to be 5,000 years old, was खोजा on a हिमानी at the austrian–italian किनारा in 1991.
By the 6th century BC, the सेल्टिक la tène संस्कृति थी खूब स्थापित.
hannibal may have crossed the ऐल्प्स साथ a herd of elephants, and the Romans had settlements in the region.
In 1800 Napoleon crossed एक of the पहाड़ passes with an army of 40,000.
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an influx of naturalists, लेखक, और कलाकारों, in particular the Romantics, followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks.
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine countries, with the एक्सेप्शन of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein ; एडोल्फ हिटलर रखा a base of operation in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war.
The Alpine प्रदेश रै a दमदार सांस्कृतिक पहचान.
The traditional culture of farming, cheesemaking, and woodworking still exists in अल्पाइन गांवों, हालांकि the पर्यटक उद्योग began to grow जल्दी in the 20th सदी और विस्तारित greatly बाद संसार युद्ध II to become the dominant industry by the end of the century.
The Winter Olympic Games have been hosted in the स्विस, फ्रेंच, इतालवी, आस्ट्रिया and German Alps.
At present the region is घर to 14 लाख लोगों और रै 120 लाख annual visitors.
Lois patrice griffin ( née pewterschmidt ) is a अक्षर इससे the एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न series Family Guy.
She is voiced by लेखक एलेक्स borstein और पहला appeared on टेलीविज़न, साथ साथ the बाकी of the परिवार in the 15-minute short on December 20, 1998.
Lois थी निर्मित और designed by श्रेणी creator Seth MacFarlane.
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry और स्टीव, a छोटी बना by macfarlane जिससे प्रदर्शित a middle-aged अक्षर नामित लैरी और an बौद्धिक dog, Steve.
बाद the पायलट थी दिए the ग्रीन लाइट, the griffin family appeared on the episode `` Death Has a Shadow ``.
Lois is the माँ of the griffin family.
With her husband Peter, she has had तीन children : मेग, क्रिस, और stewie.
लोइस is प्रायः portrayed as a stereotypical टेलीविज़न माँ, despite her admitting to being a drug user, a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac.
लोइस रै भी था अनेक अफेयर्स, एक of जिससे allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg.
She has appeared in other media relating to Family guy—including a वीडियो खेल, commercials और books—and प्रेरित an संपूर्ण लकीर of merchandise.
Lois 's distinctive New York accent originated from a character in a stage show that Alex Borstein had performed in, जिससे थी largely प्रेरित by a सापेक्ष जो grew up on long द्वीप, New York.
Family हस्तांतरण of बास्क भाषा ( बास्क as initial language )
Percentage of students पंजीकृत in बास्क भाषा स्कूलों ( 2000–2005 ).
Location of the basque-language प्रांतों भीतर स्पेन and France
Basque ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral भाषा of the बास्क लोगों, जो inhabit the बास्क देश, a प्रदेश spanning an क्षेत्रफल in northeastern Spain and southwestern France.
It is spoken by 27 % of Basques in सब territories ( 714,136 आउट of 2,648,998 ).
Of these, 663,035 live in the स्पेनी भाग of the बास्क देश और the बाकी 51,100 live in the French part.
In academic discussions of the distribution of Basque in स्पेन और फ़्रांस, it is प्रथागत to refer to तीन प्राचीन प्रांतों in फ़्रांस और चार Spanish provinces.
Native speakers are concentrated in a contiguous area including parts of the Spanish autonomous समुदायों of the बास्क देश और नावारा और in the पश्चिमी हाफ of the फ्रेंच département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic बास्क देश incorporating the परंपरागत स्पेनी प्रांतों of biscay, gipuzkoa, और álava, जिससे retain उनके existence as politico-administrative divisions.
These provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily populated by ethnic Basques, but Basque was, at least until the 1990s, नहीं बोला as a देशी भाषा in सबसे of álava, पश्चिमी भाग of biscay और सेंट्रल और दक्षिणी क्षेत्रों of नावारा, either क्युकी it था महरूम replaced by स्पेनी साथ the सदियां, in कुछ क्षेत्रों, or क्युकी it had never been spoken there, in other areas.
In southwestern France, the प्राचीन basque-populated प्रांतों यहूद labourd, निम्नतर नावारा, and Soule.
They and other regions were consolidated into a single département in 1790 अंतर्गत the नाम basses-pyrénées, a नाम जिससे persisted जबतक 1970.
A standardized form of the बास्क भाषा, पुकारा euskara batua, थी विकसित by the बास्क Language Academy in the late 1960s.
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language could be used—and easily समझा by सब बास्क speakers—in औपचारिक परिस्थितियों ( शिक्षा, द्रव्यमान मीडिया, साहित्य ), और इस is इसके प्रमुख use today.
The role of this standard Basque language depends on the भाषाई शैक्षणिक मॉडल of प्रत्येक region and each school.
In most areas of the Spanish Basque Country, the शैक्षणिक मॉडल d, जहाँ सब विषय हैं सिखाया in बास्क, मगर `` स्पेनी भाषा और साहित्य '' ( जिससे is सिखाया in स्पेनी ) is now the predominant model.
In फ़्रांस, the बास्क भाषा स्कूल seaska और the संघ लिये a दुभाषिया ( बास्क और फ्रेंच ) schooling ikasbi मिलें a wide range of Basque language educational needs up to the Sixth Form, while often struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints.
Apart from this standardized संस्करण, वहीँ हैं पाँच प्रमुख बास्क dialects : bizkaian, gipuzkoan, और अपर navarrese in Spain, and Navarrese–Lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in France ).
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces, the dialect सीमाएँ हैं नहीं congruent साथ प्रांत सीमाएँ.
The President, Directors and Company, of the बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य, commonly ज्ञात as the पहला बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य, थी a सेंट्रल बैंको, चार्टर्ड लिये a पद of बीस सालो, by the United States Congress on February 25, 1791.
स्थापना of the बैंको थी शामिल in a three-part विस्तार of संघीय फिस्कल और मौद्रिक शक्ति ( साथ साथ a federal mint and excise taxes ) championed by Alexander Hamilton, first Secretary of the Treasury.
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to stabilize and improve the nation 's क्रेडिट, और to improve हैंडलिंग of the वित्तीय कारोबार of the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी अंतर्गत the newly enacted Constitution.
Officially proposed to the first session of the First कॉंग्रेस in 1790, हैमिल्टन 's बैंको faced फैली प्रतिरोध इससे opponents of increased federal power.
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and James Madison led the opposition, which claimed that the बैंको थी असंवैधानिक, और कि it benefited व्यापारियों और निवेशकों at the व्यय of the बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी.
The First Bank building is now a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क स्तिथ in फिलाडेल्फिया, पेन्सिलवेनिया भीतर स्वतंत्रता National Historical Park.
James Wesley marsters ( born अगस्त 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता and musician.
Marsters first came to the attention of the general public playing the popular character स्पाइक, a platinum-blond yobbish अंग्रेज़ी पिशाच in the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी buffy the पिशाच slayer और इसके spin-off series, Angel, from 1997 to 2004.
Since then, he has gone on to play other science fiction roles, such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired श्रेणी smallville, the omnisexual समय मुसाफ़िर कप्तान जॉन हार्ट in अंग्रेजों science-fiction दिखाएँ torchwood और आतंकवादी Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica.
marsters appeared in a supporting role in the 2007 movie P.S.
I Love You and as the main विपक्षी, piccolo, in the 2009 काल्पनिक एडवेंचर फिल्मी dragonball Evolution.
He appeared as a पुनरावर्ती अक्षर in the पहला ऋतु of the revival of Hawaii 5-0.
in आणविक जीवविज्ञान, इंसान chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the fertilized egg after conception.
Later during गर्भावस्था it is बना by the विकासशील placenta, और बाद by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors उपज इस हार्मोन ; इसलिए, elevated स्तर measured जब the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether इस उत्पादन is a contributing कारण or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary ग्रंथि of males और महिलाओं of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' and over the काउंटर hcg आहार उत्पाद और घोषित उन्हें बेईमान और illegal.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, known by her stage name बेयोंस ( ; born सितंबर 4, 1981 ), is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, नर्तकी, and actress.
Born and raised in Houston, Texas, वो performed in गायन और नाचना प्रतियोगिताओं as a चाइल्ड पहले forming in 1990 a समूह साथ Kelly Rowland and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child.
एकबार हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड, the लड़कियों subsequently became एक of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time.
The group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil और नॉलेस suffered इससे अवसाद कि lasted लिये a क्रमांक of सालो.
दौरान the समूह 's अंतराल, नॉलेस released उसके डेब्यू सोलो एल्बम dangerously in प्रेम ( 2003 ), जिससे अर्जित her five Grammy Awards and has sold a total of 4.9 million copies in the US alone.
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` क्रेजी in प्रेम, '' माना by vh1 to be the `` महानतम सोंग of the 00 's, '' and `` Baby Boy. ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005, Knowles 's second solo album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the शीर्ष पाँच singles `` déjà vu ``, `` अपूरणीय ``, और `` खूबसूरत झूठा ``.
Her प्रदर्शन in dreamgirls ( 2006 ) अर्जित उसके दो सुनहरी ग्लोब nominations.
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in that फिल्मी प्रेरित उसके subsequent एल्बम i Am...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) जिससे शाखित हिट्स `` if i यहूद a लड़के ``, `` सिंगल महिलाओं ( put a रिंग on it ) ``, `` हेलो ``, और `` Sweet Dreams ``.
The album also helped Knowles earn six grammys in 2010, तोड़कर the रिकार्ड लिये सबसे ग्रैमी पुरस्कार जीती by a मादा कलाकार in one night.
Her fourth album 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards परंपरागत r & b और became उसके चौथी लगातार क्रमांक एक एल्बम on the Billboard 200.
In January 2012, नॉलेस दिया जनम to बेटी ब्लू आइवी कार्टर, her first child with husband Jay-Z.
Knowles has sold over 13 लाख एल्बम in the us और 118 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी ( as खूब as a further 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड with Destiny 's Child ), and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
The Recording उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) पहचाना नॉलेस as the शीर्ष certified Artist of the 2000s.
In 2009, Billboard named her the Top Radio गीतों कलाकार of the दशक और क्रमित उसके the Top Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade.
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award इतिहास, receiving 17 पुरस्कार ; अन्य accolades शामिल 12 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, 7 बिलबोर्ड पुरस्कार सहित a मिलेनियम पुरस्कार, और a स्टार on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child.
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a सोंग लिखा by ब्रूस robison और पहला अंकित on उसके 1998 एल्बम Wrapped.
it थी बाद covered by टिम mcgraw with guest vocalist Faith Hill.
released in जुलाई 2001, mcgraw 's संस्करण थी the दूसरी single from McGraw 's Set This Circus Down album.
The song पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot देश singles & ट्रैक्स ( now Hot Country Songs ) charts.
Dear John is a 2010 American romantic नाटक - युद्ध फिल्मी अभिनीत अमांडा seyfried and Channing Tatum.
It was released theatrically in उत्तर अमेरिका on फ़रवरी 5, 2010.
the फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by lasse hallström, और it is an अनुकूलन of Nicholas Sparks 's novel of the same name.
It follows the जीवन of a सिपाही ( चेनिंग टैटम ) बाद he जलप्रपात in love with a young woman ( Amanda Seyfried ).
They decide to एक्सचेंज अक्षर to प्रत्येक other after he is deployed to the war.
The movie थी फिल्माया in 2009 in चार्ल्सटन, South Carolina.
Despite receiving negative reviews, the film made a strong box office performance, knocking बंद अवतार बाद सात सप्ताहांत in पहला प्लेस और grossing a कुल of $ 114,977,104 worldwide.
The film was released on May 25, 2010 on dvd और blu-ray.
These are lists of the busiest एयरपोर्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Hartsfield–Jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the व्यस्ततम सिंगल airport in the United States.
However, all of the New यॉर्क नगर महानगर क्षेत्रफल 's एयरपोर्ट combine to बनाएँ the largest विमानक्षेत्र प्रणाली in the संयुक्त राज्य, दूसरी in the world in terms of passenger traffic, and first in the world in terms of total flight operations.
Dora the Explorer is an American एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by क्रिस gifford, वैलेरी Walsh, and Eric Weiner.
Dora the एक्सप्लोरर became a regular series in 2000.
the दिखाएँ is carried on the निकलोडियन केबल टेलीविज़न संजाल, सहित the associated Nick Jr. channel.
It aired on सीबीएस जबतक सितंबर 2006.
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as भाग of a उपनाम en español ब्लाक on एनबीसी सार्वभौमिक -owned telemundo through सितंबर 2006 ; चूंकि अप्रैल 2008, इस संस्करण of the program has been carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U block.
Santa Fe ( ; ( Tewa : ogha po'oge, ) ) is the पूंजी of the u.S. राज्य of नई मैक्सिको.
It is the fourth-largest नगर in the राज्य and is the seat of.
सांता fe ( अर्थ “holy faith” in स्पेनी ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 67,947 in the 2010 census.
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses सब of सांता fe काउंटी और is भाग of the larger albuquerque-santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area.
the city’s पूरा नाम जब संस्थापित थी la विला रियल de la Santa Fé de San Francisco de Asís ( “The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ).
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in uppercase as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय कि is उत्पादित और manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it थी renamed as pepsi-cola on अगस्त 28, 1898, तब to पेप्सी in 1961.
1765 broadside
The Sons of Liberty was a समूह consisting of अमरीकी देशप्रेमी कि originated in the pre-independence उत्तर अमरीकी British colonies.
The group was formed to protect the rights of the colonists और to लो to the गलियों विरूद्ध the कर by the British government.
They are best known for undertaking the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी in 1773, जिससे led to the असहनीय अधिनियमों ( an तीव्र crackdown by the अंग्रेजों सरकारी ), and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots.
ओसाका किला
is a नगर in the कन्साई प्रदेश of जापानी 's प्रमुख द्वीप of होन्शू, a designated नगर अंतर्गत the लोकल स्वायत्तता विधि, the पूंजी नगर of ओसाका प्रीफ़ेक्चर और भी the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis, which comprises three major cities of Japan, Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe.
स्तिथ at the मुँह of the yodo नदी on ओसाका खाड़ी, ओसाका is जापानी 's तीसरा largest city by population after Tokyo ( special wards ) and Yokohama.
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one of the largest metropolitan areas highly ranked in the संसार, साथ nearly 19 लाख लोगों, और by जीडीपी the दूसरी largest क्षेत्रफल in जापानी और the सातवाँ largest क्षेत्रफल in the world.
Historically the वाणिज्यिक बीच of जापानी, ओसाका कृत्यों as एक of the कमांड centers for the Japanese economy.
The ratio between daytime and night time population is 141 %, the उच्चतम in जापानी, highlighting इसके औकात as an आर्थिक बीच.
Its nighttime population is 2.6 लाख, the तीसरा in the देश, लकिन in दिन the जनसांख्यिकी surges to 3.7 लाख, दूसरी तभी बाद टोकियो ( combining the खास wards of टोकियो, जिससे is नहीं a single incorporated city, for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ).
Osaka used to be referred to as the in feudal Edo period क्युकी it थी the केन्द्र of व्यापार लिये राइस, बनाना the पहला modern futures exchange market in the world.
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film produced by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी विशेषता एनिमेशन और वितरित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Pictures.
आधारित on the डैनिश परी टेल by hans ईसाई andersen, the छोटी Mermaid tells the story of a beautiful mermaid who dreams of becoming human.
Written, directed, and उत्पादित by रॉन क्लेमेंट्स और जॉन musker, साथ म्यूज़िक by एलन menken और हावर्ड ashman, the फिल्मी सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें jodi Benson, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Pat Carroll, Samuel E. Wright, Jason Marin, Kenneth Mars, Buddy Hacket, and Rene Auberjonois.
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated क्लासिक श्रेणी, the छोटी मरमेड थी released to थिएटर on नवम्बर 14, 1989 to largely धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ, garnering $ 84 million at the box office during its initial release, and $ 211 million in total lifetime gross.
After the success of the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who Framed Roger Rabbit, The Little Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the आर्ट of डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता films बाद a स्ट्रिंग of नाजुक or वाणिज्यिक असफलताओं उत्पादित by डिज़्नी कि दिनाँक back to the early 1970s.
It also चिह्नित the प्रारंभ of the era ज्ञात as the डिज़्नी Renaissance.
A stage adaptation of the film with a किताब by डग राइट और अतिरिक्त गीतों by एलन menken और नई गीतों ग्लेन स्लेटर खोली in डेनवर in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10, 2008.
alt=close-up फ़ोटो of a मेटल चमचा भर with a viscous, clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for a recreational ड्रग लोकप्रिय in the हिप हॉप जातियाँ in the दक्षिणी संयुक्त राज्य, originating in Houston, Texas.
Its main संघटक is नुस्खा -strength खांसी सिरप containing codeine and promethazine.
Cough syrup is typically मिश्रित साथ संघटक ऐसे as sprite नरम पेय or Mountain Dew and pieces of Jolly Rancher candy.
The purplish hue of जामुनी पिया आता इससे dyes in the खांसी syrup.
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank, सहित sizzurp, झुकना, सिरप, पिया, barre, जामुनी जेली, टेक्सास चाय, और Tsikuni.
first/given, मध्य, और last/family/surname diagram with J. S. Bach as example.
J. S. Bach shared his दिए नाम साथ छह तात्कालिक परिवार सदस्यों और अनेक विस्तारित family members.
He साझा उसके परिवार नाम साथ most family members.
A given name, in Western contexts often referred to as a first name, is a personal name that specifies and differentiates between सदस्यों of a समूह of individuals, विशेषकर in a परिवार, सब of जिनकी सदस्यों प्रायः share the वही परिवार नाम ( उपनाम ).
A given name is purposefully given, प्रायः by a चाइल्ड 's अभिभावक at or निकट जनम, in कंट्रास्ट to an inherited one such as a family name.
A दिए नाम is sometimes legally changed through a name change.
Given names are often used in a परिचित और दोस्ताना manner in informal situations.
In more formal situations the उपनाम is प्रयुक्त बजाय, जबतक it is जरुरी to फर्क between लोगों साथ the same surname.
The idiom `` on a first-name आधार '' ( or `` on first-name शर्तें '' ) alludes to the अपनेपन of संबोधित another by a given name.
The western style of having दोनो a परिवार नाम ( उपनाम ) और a दिए नाम is far from universal.
In many देशों it is आम लिये ordinary लोगों to have तभी one name ( a mononym ).
Hydrochloric acid is a clear, colourless solution of हाइड्रोजन chloride ( h cl ) in जल.
It is a highly क्षयकारी, दमदार खनिज एसिड साथ अनेक औद्योगिक uses.
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड is मिला naturally in gastric acid.
Historically called muriatic एसिड, और आत्माओं of नमक, हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड थी उत्पादित इससे vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt.
It first appeared दौरान the पुनर्जागरण, और तब it थी प्रयुक्त by chemists ऐसे as glauber, प्रीस्टलि and Davy in their scientific research.
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution, hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical industry as a रासायनिक अभिकर्मक in the large-scale उत्पादन of विनाइल chloride लिये पीवीसी प्लास्टिक, और mdi / tdi लिये polyurethane.
It has numerous smaller-scale अनुप्रयोग, सहित household सफ़ाई, उत्पादन of जिलेटिन और अन्य खाना एडिटिव, descaling, and leather processing.
परिचय 20 लाख टन of हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid are produced annually.
Wheat ( triticum spp. ) is a खाद्यान्न अनाज, originally इससे the levant प्रदेश of the निकट ईस्ट and Ethiopian Highlands, but now cultivated worldwide.
In 2010, world production of wheat was 651 लाख टन, बनाना it the तीसरा most-produced खाद्यान्न बाद मक्का ( 844 million tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons ).
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; world production in कि साल थी 682 लाख टन, बाद मक्का ( 817 लाख टन ), और साथ राइस as a बंद तीसरा ( 679 million tons ).
This grain is grown on अधिक जमीन क्षेत्रफल than कोई अन्य वाणिज्यिक food.
World व्यापार in गेहूं is वृहद than लिये सब other crops combined.
Globally, wheat is the leading source of vegetable protein in human food, having a higher protein content than soybeans or the अन्य प्रमुख cereals, मक्का ( मकई ) or राइस.
In terms of total production tonnages प्रयुक्त लिये खाना, it is फिलहाल दूसरी to राइस as the प्रमुख इंसान खाना क्रॉप और ahead of मक्का, बाद allowing for maize 's more extensive use in animal feeds.
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the प्रारंभ of सभ्यता क्युकी it थी एक of the पहला फसलों कि could be easily cultivated on a विशाल स्केल, और had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food.
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the fertile crescent, सहित the Babylonian and Assyrian empires.
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make flour for leavened, flat and steamed breads, biscuits, कुकीज़, cakes, नाश्ता खाद्यान्न, पास्ता, नूडल्स, couscous और लिये fermentation to मेक बियर, अन्य alcoholic पेय, or biofuel.
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage क्रॉप लिये पशुधन, और इसके स्ट्रॉ can be प्रयुक्त as a construction material for roofing thatch.
the पूरे अनाज can be milled to छोड़ बस the भ्रूणपोष for white flour.
The by-products of इस हैं चोकर and germ.
The पूरे अनाज is a concentrated सोर्स of विटामिन, खनिज, और प्रोटीन, जबकि the refined grain is mostly starch.
मुद्रण
to प्रकाशित is to मेक सामग्री उपलब्धियाँ to the general public.
While विशिष्ट उपयोग of the पद may vary among देशों, it is प्रायः लागू to टेक्स्ट, बिंब, or अन्य audio-visual सामग्री on कोई परंपरागत मीडियम, सहित पेपर ( अखबारों, मैगज़ीन, कैटलॉग, etc. ).
The word प्रकाशन अर्थात् the अधिनियम of प्रकाशन, और also refers to any printed copies.
Melissa & Joey is an ABC परिवार असली टेलीविज़न श्रेणी अभिनीत मेलिसा जोन हार्ट और जॉय Lawrence.
It first aired on ABC परिवार on अगस्त 17, 2010.
The series follows local राजनेता mel बुर्के ( मेलिसा जोन हार्ट ) और जो longo ( जॉय लॉरेंस ), जिसको mel hires to dekh बाद उसके भांजी and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke.
The series was renewed by ABC Family for a दूसरी ऋतु of पंद्रह एपीसोड, जिससे began airing on may 30, 2012 और ended on August 29, 2012.
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock आरपार निशाना ऑडियंस 18–34, 18–49 और 12–34 जनसांख्यिकी.
On August 17, 2012, एबीसी परिवार नवीनीकृत मेलिसा & जॉय लिये a तीसरा ऋतु, नियत to premiere in spring 2013.
the धर्मं व्हील, प्रायः प्रयुक्त to represent the Noble Eightfold Path
The Noble eightfold पाथ (, ) is एक of the प्रिंसिपल शिक्षाओं of the बुद्ध, जो वर्णित it as the रास्ता अग्रणी to the cessation of कष्ट ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening.
It is used to develop insight into the true प्रकृति of phenomena ( or वास्तविकता ) और to eradicate लोभ, द्वेष, and delusion.
The Noble Eightfold Path is the चौथी of the बुद्ध 's चार प्रतिष्ठित सच्चाई ; the पहला तत्व of the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ is, in turn, an understanding of the Four Noble Truths.
It is also known as the Middle पाथ or मध्य रास्ता.
All eight elements of the Path begin with the word `` right '', which translates the शब्द samyañc ( in संस्कृत ) or sammā ( in Pāli ).
These denote completion, एकजुटता, और coherence, और can भी सुझाएँ the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal ''.
'Samma ' is also translated as `` wholesome '', `` हिकमत '' और `` skillful ''.
In बौद्ध प्रतीकवाद, the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ is प्रायः represented by अर्थात् of the धर्मं व्हील ( dharmachakra ), जिनकी आठ तीलियां represent the eight elements of the path.
The Grammy Award for Song of the Year is an honor प्रस्तुत at the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, a रस्म कि थी स्थापित in 1958 और originally पुकारा the Gramophone Awards.
पुरस्कार in अनेक श्रेणी हैं वितरित annually by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences of the संयुक्त राज्य to `` सम्मान कलाकारी उपलब्धि, तकनीकी proficiency और overall excellence in the recording industry, without regard to album sales or chart position. ''
Economics is the सोशल विज्ञान कि analyzes the उत्पादन, वितरण, and consumption of goods and services.
The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek ( ', `` management of a household, प्रशासन '' ) इससे ( ', `` हाउस '' ) + ( ', `` custom '' or `` law '' ), hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) ''.
Political economy was the earlier name for the subject, but economists in the लेट 19th सदी सुझाया `` अर्थशास्त्र '' as a shorter पद लिये `` आर्थिक विज्ञान '' कि भी avoided a सीमित political-interest connotation and as similar in form to `` mathematics ``, `` ethics '', and so forth.
A focus of the विषय is कैसा आर्थिक एजेंटों व्यवहार or interact और कैसा economies work.
Consistent with this, a primary textbook भेद is between microeconomics और macroeconomics.
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic तत्व in the अर्थव्यवस्था, सहित व्यक्तिगत एजेंटों ( ऐसे as households और firms or as खरीदार and sellers ) and markets, and their interactions.
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy और मुद्दे affecting it, सहित बेरोजगारी, महंगाई, आर्थिक growth, and monetary and fiscal policy.
Other broad distinctions include those between धनात्मक अर्थशास्त्र ( describing `` कया is '' ) और normative अर्थशास्त्र ( वकालत `` कया ought to be '' ) ; between आर्थिक सिद्धान्त और लागू अर्थशास्त्र ; between तर्कसंगत और behavioral अर्थशास्त्र ; और between मुख्यधारा economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ).
Economic analysis may be applied throughout society, as in business, finance, स्वास्थ्य परवाह, और सरकारी, लकिन भी to ऐसे विविध विषय as अपराधों, शिक्षा, the परिवार, विधि, राजनीती, religion, social institutions, war, and science.
At the फेरे of the 21st सदी, the expanding डोमेन of अर्थशास्त्र in the सोशल sciences has been described as economic imperialism.
An increasing क्रमांक of अर्थशास्त्रियों have पुकारा लिये increased जोर on पर्यावरणीय sustainability ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics.
This is a सूची of अनुसूची iv दवाएँ अंतर्गत the नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम लिये the United States.
जरूरी निष्कर्षों लिये दवाएँ to be placed in this schedule:
the ड्रग or अन्य पदार्थ रै a कम संभावित लिये गाली सापेक्ष to the drugs or other substances in schedule III.
The drug or other substance has a फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा उपयोग in उपचार in the United States.
Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or मनोवैज्ञानिक dependence सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in schedule III.
The complete list of अनुसूची iv दवाएँ हैं as फ़ॉलो.
The प्रशासनिक नियंत्रित substances कोड क्रमांक for each drug is included.
US county household मध्य आय 2009.
Median US household आय, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी और निजी institutions.
प्रत्येक household is measured by the आय of every resident over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability payments, child support payments received, नियमित rental रसीदें, as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार, निवेश, or अन्य kinds of आय received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing लगभग प्रत्येक साल इससे 1945 to 1999, it रै चूंकि महरूम चपटा और भी decreased recently.
U.S. median household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले सरकारी लाभ, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011, सहित 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household लिये उनके आय to be माना part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a समान आर्थिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट, the उपयोग of household income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी, और may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
The lapse rate is defined as the rate of decrease with ऊँचाई लिये an वायुमंडलीय परिवर्तनीय.
The variable शामिल is तापमान जबतक निर्दिष्ट वरना.
The शब्दावली arises इससे the शब्द बीतने in the भाव of a decrease or decline.
While most often applied to Earth 's माहौल the अवधारणा can be विस्तारित to कोई gravitationally समर्थित बॉल of gas.
Blue पहाड़ राज्य is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी श्रेणी कि premiered on Spike on January 11, 2010.
The series producers include Chris Romano and Eric falconer, और it is उत्पादित by lionsgate टेलीविज़न.
The series is about a fictional विश्वविद्यालयों, ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य, और इसके फ़ुटबॉल टोली, `` the पहाड़ Goats. ''
It portrays निश्चित पहलुओं of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों जीवन, सहित फ़ुटबॉल, sex, binge drinking, drugs, wild partying, and hazing.
In February 2012, it was reported that Blue Mountain राज्य होता नहीं be नवीनीकृत लिये a चौथी ऋतु.
In March 2013, ed marinaro stated कि he is working on a ब्लू पहाड़ State film.
Apple Inc., formerly Apple Computer, Inc., is an American बहुराष्ट्रीय निगम headquartered in cupertino, कैलिफ़ोर्निया कि डिजाइन, develops, और बिकता उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, कंप्यूटर तन्त्र और निजी कंप्यूटर.
Its best-known हार्डवेयर उत्पाद हैं the मैक लकीर of कंप्यूटर, the ipod म्यूज़िक खिलाड़ी, the iphone स्मार्टफोन, and the iPad tablet computer.
Its software includes the OS X and iOS ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों, the itunes मीडिया ब्राउजर, the safari वेब ब्राउजर, और the ilife और iwork रचनात्मकता and production suites.
The company was founded on April 1, 1976, और incorporated as ठहराना कंप्यूटर, inc. on जनवरी 3, 1977.
The word `` Computer '' थी removed इससे इसके नाम on जनवरी 9, 2007, reflecting इसके shifted फ़ोकस towards उपभोक्ता electronics after the introduction of the iPhone.
Apple is the world 's second-largest सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी कम्पनी by आय बाद samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, और the संसार 's third-largest मोबाईल phone maker after Samsung and Nokia.
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008, और in the संसार इससे 2008 to 2012.
However, the company has received आलोचना लिये इसके ठेकेदारों ' मजदूर practices, और लिये ठहराना 's अपना पर्यावरणीय and business practices.
, ठहराना maintains 394 खुदरा स्टोर्स in चौदह देशों as खूब as the online Apple Store and iTunes Store.
it is the second-largest सरेआम traded निगम in the संसार by मार्केट capitalization, with an estimated value of US $ 414 billion as of January 2013.
, the company had 72,800 स्थाई full-time कर्मचारी और 3,300 अस्थाई full-time employees worldwide.
Its worldwide annual आय in 2012 totalled $ 156 अरब.
खण्ड 8 आवास in the South Bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ), often simply known as खण्ड 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the भुगतान of rental आवास सहायता to private landlords on behalf of approximately 3.1 million low-income households.
It operates through अनेक कार्यक्रम, the largest of जिससे, the आवास चुनाव वाउचर कार्यक्रम, pays a large portion of the rents and utilities of about 2.1 million households.
The US Department of Housing and शहरी विकास manages the खण्ड 8 programs.
The Housing Choice Voucher Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental सहायता, so a किरायेदार can मूव इससे एक unit of at least minimum housing quality to another.
It भी allows individuals to लागू उनके मासिक वाउचर towards the खरीदें of a home, with over $ 17 billion going towards such purchases each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ).
The अधिकतम अनुमत वाउचर is $ 2200 a month.
खण्ड 8 भी authorizes a किस्में of `` project-based '' rental सहायता कार्यक्रम, अंतर्गत जिससे the मालिक reserves कुछ or सब of the इकाई in a भवन लिये low-income किरायेदारों, in वापसी for a Federal government guarantee to make up the difference between the tenant 's contribution and the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government.
A tenant who leaves a subsidized प्रोजेक्ट होगा खोना अभिगम to the project-based रियायत.
The United States Department of आवास और शहरी विकास और संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of दिग्गजों अफेयर्स have a खास खण्ड 8 कार्यक्रम पुकारा vash ( दिग्गजों अफेयर्स supportive आवास ), or HUD-VASH, which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans.
रेस्तरां categorized by प्रकार और सूचना about these different types.
U.S. Federal आरक्षित टीप in the mid-1990s
The history of the United राज्य डालर कवर अधिक than 200 years.
