A partly submerged glacier cave on perito Moreno Glacier.
The ice facade is approximately 60 m high
बर्फ formations in the Titlis glacier गुफा
A glacier cave is a गुफा formed भीतर the ice of a glacier.
Glacier caves are often पुकारा ice caves, लकिन this term is properly used to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice.
In physics, गोलाकार motion is a movement of an object along the परिधि of a circle or rotation along a circular path.
It can be वर्दी, with निरंतर angular rate of rotation ( and constant speed ), or non-uniform साथ a changing rate of rotation.
The रोटेशन around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its parts.
The equations of गति describe the गति of the center of mass of a देह.
उदाहरण of circular motion include : an artificial उपग्रह orbiting the Earth at constant height, a stone जिससे is tied to a rope और is being swung in circles, a car turning through a curve in a race track, an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field, and a gear turning inside a mechanism.
Since the ऑब्जेक्ट 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction, the चलती object is undergoing त्वरण by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation.
Without this acceleration, the ऑब्जेक्ट होता move in a straight line, according to Newton 's कानून of motion.
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the Undisputed हेवीवेट Champion of the संसार.
He was played by Carl weathers.
Creed had multiple nicknames, सहित The Master of Disaster, the किंग of स्टिंग, The Dancing Destroyer, The Prince of Punch, The One and तभी और The Count of Monte fisto.
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's नाम is a wordplay on the Apostles ' पंथ, a statement of belief used in Christian churches.
All of अपोलो 's चैंपियनशिप झगड़े were scheduled for the 15 round अलहदा.
Championship fights did नहीं convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987.
रॉकी Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red, white, and blue trunks ; Creed was the पहला man to पहनें them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th किश्तों and आखिरकार by Tommy `` the Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) हालांकि सामान्यतः he wore red and white, as देखी in Rocky II.
Balboa 's signature रंगों were black और gold—colors he used in the latest movie.
In the United States, the शीर्षक of federal न्यायधीश प्रायः means a न्यायधीश appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States सीनेट pursuant to the Appointments Clause in आलेख II of the United States Constitution.
In जोड to the Supreme अदालत of the United राज्य, whose existence and some aspects of जिनकी jurisdiction are beyond the संवैधानिक शक्ति of Congress to alter, acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United राज्य, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a संघीय judge ; such positions शामिल the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the परम् अदालत, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, and district judges of the संयुक्त States district न्यायालयों.
All of these न्यायाधीशों described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` आलेख III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal सरकारी by Article III of the u.S. Constitution.
In जोड, न्यायाधीशों of the Court of अंतरराष्ट्रीय Trade exercise न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal न्यायालयों, including magistrate judges and दिवालियापन judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, they हैं neither appointed by the President nor पुष्टि by the Senate, and their शक्ति derives from Article I instead.
देखिए Article i and आलेख III tribunals.
The Beretta 21A बॉबकैट is a छोटी pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by Beretta in Italy.
उत्पादन began in late 1984, solely in the Beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek, Maryland.
It is a further development of the Beretta Model 20, whose production ended in 1985.
Variable Universal जीवन Insurance ( प्रायः shortened to VUL ) is a type of life insurance that builds a नकदी मान.
In a VUL, the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate accounts, similar to mutual funds, and the choice of which of the available separate accounts to उपयोग is entirely up to the contract owner.
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose values vary—they vary because they are invested in भण्डार and/or बंध markets.
The 'universal ' component in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments.
The premiums can vary इससे nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code for life insurance.
इस लचीलापन is in contrast to whole life बीमे that रै fixed premium payments कि typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an स्वचालित Premium Loan feature, or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ).
Variable universal life is a प्रकार of स्थाई life insurance, because the मौत लाभ will be paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash मान to pay the costs of insurance in the policy.
With most if not all VULs, नापसंद whole life, there is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount, which for पूरे life is typically 100 ).
This is yet another key advantage of VUL over Whole जीवन.
With a typical whole life policy, the death benefit is limited to the face amount निर्दिष्ट in the policy, और at endowment age, the face amount is all that is paid out.
Thus with either death or endowment, the insurance कम्पनी keeps any cash value built up over the years.
However, some participating whole life policies offer राइडर्स which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up परिवर्धन '' to the नीति which increase both the cash value और the death benefit over समय.
If investments made in the पृथक accounts out-perform the general account of the insurance company, a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life.
The combination over the years of no endowment आयु, continually increasing death benefit, and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate खाते of a VUL नीति, इस could result in higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life नीति साथ the same amounts of money paid in as premiums.
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic लकडी stove adapted लिये set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to आंतरिक buildings.
A mound of Girl Scout कुकीज़.
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies हैं cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of its प्रमुख fundraisers लिये local Scout units.
सदस्यों of the gsusa have महरूम selling cookies since 1917 to raise funds.
लड़कियों who participate can earn prizes for their efforts.
वहीँ are भी unit प्रोत्साहन if the ईकाई as a whole does well.
As of 2007, sales were estimated at about 200 million बाक्स per साल.
University Hall
Purdue विश्वविद्यालयों, स्तिथ in वेस्ट Lafayette, इंडियाना, is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University प्रणाली.
Purdue was founded on may 6, 1869, as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly, taking advantage of the Morrill अधिनियम, accepted a donation of land और money इससे Lafayette बिजनेसमैन John Purdue to स्थापित a college of विज्ञान, technology, and agriculture in उसके name.
The first classes were held on September 16, 1874, with six instructors and 39 students.
आज, Purdue is a सदस्य of the Big Ten Conference, and is a well known world-class research institution.
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any विश्वविद्यालयों in Indiana as खूब as the fourth largest international छात्र population of any university in the United States.
purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 211 major areas of study, और is well ज्ञात for इसके competitive अभियान्त्रिकी curricula.
The विश्वविद्यालयों has भी been highly influential in अमेरिका 's history of विमानन, having established the first college credit offered in flight training, the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation, and the first विश्वविद्यालयों airport ( purdue University Airport ).
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains one of the most competitive aviation-specific programs in the world.
in the mid-20th century, Purdue 's aviation कार्यक्रम expanded to encompass उन्नत spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving rise to purdue 's nickname, पालना of Astronauts.
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts, including Gus Grissom ( one of the original पारा Seven astronauts ), Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ), and Eugene cernan ( the most हाल person to चलना on the moon ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( भी known as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates from बाल follicles, by परिभाषा, neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst.
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, white, semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is not sebum, but keratin.
Furthermore, अंतर्गत the microscope neither entity contains sebaceous glands.
in practice, however, the terms are often used interchangeably.
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and हैं known as steatocystomas or, if अनेक, as steatocystoma multiplex.
Modern pointe shoes.
The edge of the toe pad, जिससे is inserted between the foot and toe box for cushioning, can be seen on the right पैर.
A pointe जूता is a प्रकार of shoe worn by बैले dancers when performing pointe work.
Pointe shoes developed इससे the ख्वाहिश लिये dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of समय.
वे हैं normally worn by मादा dancers, though male dancers may पहनें them लिये अपरंपरागत roles such as the ugly stepsisters in सिंडरेला, Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream, or men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero और Grandiva.
वे are manufactured in a किस्में of colors, most commonly in shades of light pink.
This tablespoon has a capacity of परिचय 15 mL.
Measuring spoons
In the US and parts of Canada, a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a कटोरी.
In the UK, Europe and most Commonwealth countries, a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used लिये serving.
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon, the nearest समतुल्य to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the capacity of one tablespoon, is commonly प्रयुक्त as a measure of आवाज़ in cooking.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is विषय to considerable variation.
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges इससे 7 mL to 14 ml.
In Australia one tablespoon ( measurement ईकाई ) is 20 mL.
Harry Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling.
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard, Harry Potter, and his मित्रों Ronald वीज़्ली and Hermione Granger, all of whom are students at Hogwarts स्कूल of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The main story arc concerns हैरी 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard रब Voldemort, whose aims are to become immortal, conquer the wizarding संसार, subjugate non-magical लोगों, and destroy all those who स्टैंड in his way, विशेषकर हैरी कुम्हार.
Since the रिलीज of the first अनोखा Harry कुम्हार और the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 जून 1997, the किताबे have gained immense popularity, critical acclaim और commercial success worldwide.
the series रै also था some share of criticism, including चिंता for the increasingly dark tone.
, the book series has sold about 450 million नक़ल, making it the best-selling किताब series in इतिहास, and has been translated into 67 languages.
The last चार books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in history.
A series of many genres, including fantasy and coming of आयु ( with elements of रहस्य, thriller, adventure, and romance ), it has many cultural meanings and references.
According to Rowling, the main theme is death.
There are also many other विषयवस्तु in the series, such as पूर्वाग्रह and corruption.
The initial प्रमुख प्रकाशक of the किताबे were Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and scholastic Press in the United States.
the books have since been published by अनेक publishers worldwide.
The books, with the seventh book split into दो parts, have been made into an eight-part film series by warner भाईs. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of सब समय.
the series also originated much tie-in merchandise, making the Harry कुम्हार brand worth in excess of $ 15 अरब.
Also due to the success of the किताबे and films, Harry कुम्हार has been प्रयुक्त for a theme park, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in सार्वभौमिक Parks & Resorts 's Islands of एडवेंचर.
RS-68 being tested at नासा 's Stennis Space Center.
The nearly पारदर्शी exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants, hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C rocket इंजन
A rocket engine, or simply `` rocket '', is a jet engine that uses only stored propellant द्रव्यमान लिये forming its high speed propulsive jet.
Rocket इंजन हैं reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's तीसरा law.
Since they need no बाह्य सामग्री to रूप उनके जेट, rocket engines can be used for spacecraft propulsion as खूब as terrestrial uses, ऐसे as missiles.
Most rocket इंजन हैं आतंरिक combustion engines, although non-combusting forms also exist.
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities, are by दूर the lightest, लकिन are the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines.
``... baby One More समय '' is a सोंग by American recording artist britney Spears.
it served as स्पीयर्स 's debut single and शीर्षक track from her debut स्टुडियो album,... baby One More समय ( 1999 ).
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami, ``... Baby One More Time '' was released on September 30, 1998, by jive Records.
After recording and sending a demo टेप with an unused song from Toni Braxton, Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive.
``... Baby One More समय '' is a teen pop and dance-pop song कि refers to a लड़की who regrets तोड़कर up with her boyfriend.
The song प्राप्त generally favorable reviews from critics, जो praised its composition.
``... Baby One More Time '' attained global success, reaching क्रमांक one in प्रत्येक देश it charted.
It also प्राप्त numerous certifications around the world, and is one of the best-selling singles of all time, with over 10 million copies बेची.
An accompanying music video, directed by Nigel Dick, portrays Spears as a छात्र from a Catholic high school, जो starts to daydream that वो is गायन and dancing around the school, while watching her love interest from अफ़ार.
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ), जहाँ Spears 's fictional बेटी is dressed with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing गुलाबी ribbons in her hair.
In 2010, the music video for ``... Baby One More Time '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music, in a poll held by Jam !.
स्पीयर्स has performed ``... Baby One अधिक Time '' in a number of live appearances and in all of उसके कॉन्सर्ट टुर.
It थी the encore of the... Baby One अधिक Time दौरे ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears also performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops !...
I Did It again World दौरे ( 2000 ), The गोमेद Hotel Tour ( 2004 ), The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ), The Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ), and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ).
``... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, and has been included in lists by Blender, Rolling Stone and VH1.
It has been noted for redefining the sound of late 1990s music.
स्पीयर्स रै नामित ``... Baby एक More समय '' as एक of her पसंदीदा गीतों from her career.
It was also the final song to be played on the BBC 's music कार्यक्रम Top of the Pops.
हैजा is an infection in the small आंत caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
The main symptoms हैं watery diarrhea and vomiting.
Transmission occurs primarily by पीने water or eating food that has महरूम contaminated by the मल ( waste product ) of an infected person, including one साथ no apparent लक्षण.
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte असंतुलन, और death in some cases.
The primary treatment is oral पुनर्जलीकरण therapy, typically with मौखिक rehydration solution, to replace water and electrolytes.
If this is not tolerated or does not provide improvement fast enough, intravenous fluids can also be used.
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with severe disease to shorten its duration and severity.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 million people and causes 100,000–130,000 मौतों a साल.
हैजा was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological methods.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde, appearing as the lead story in lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890, printed as the जुलाई 1890 issue of this पत्रिका.
The magazine 's सम्पादक feared the story was indecent as submitted, so they censored roughly 500 words, without Wilde 's knowledge, before publication.
But even with कि, the story was स्टिल greeted साथ outrage by अंग्रेजों reviewers, some of whom suggested that Wilde चाहिए be prosecuted on moral grounds, leading Wilde to बचाव the novel aggressively in letters to the British press.
Wilde later revised the story for book प्रकाशन, making substantial alterations, deleting विवादास्पद passages, adding new chapters and सहित an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own सही.
The amended संस्करण was published by वार्ड, Lock and Company in अप्रैल 1891.
Some scholars believe that वाइल्ड would today have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a यंग man named Dorian Gray, the subject of a पेंटिंग by कलाकार Basil Hallward.
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with उसे, believing his beauty is responsible for a new mode in उसके art.
Dorian meets Lord हेनरी Wotton, a friend of Basil 's, and becomes enthralled by Lord हेनरी 's world view.
Espousing a new hedonism, Lord Henry suggests the only things worth pursuing in जीवन are beauty and fulfilment of the senses.
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade, डोरियन ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell his soul to ensure the पोर्ट्रेट Basil has painted would age rather than he.
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery, the portrait serves as a reminder of the प्रभाव each act has upon his आत्मा, with each sin displayed as a disfigurement of his form, or through a चिह्न of aging.
The Picture of डोरियन Gray is considered a work of classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme.
Sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ), known as ज़ा Zsa Gabor ( ), is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in फिल्मों, on Broadway, and occasionally on television.
गैबर was also a socialite.
वो began her stage career in वियना at age 15, and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936.
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress with `` European फ्लेयर and style '', with a व्यक्तित्व that `` exuded आकर्षण और grace ''.
Her first movie role was as supporting actress in Lovely to dekh At.
She बाद acted in We 're नहीं Married !
और played one of her few leading roles in moulin Rouge ( 1952 ), निर्देशित by John Huston, who described her as a `` creditable '' अभिनेत्री.
Besides उसके film और television appearances, वो is best known लिये having nine husbands, including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders.
She once stated, `` मेन have always liked me और i have always liked men.
But I जैसे a mannish man, a man who knows how to talk to and treat a स्त्री – not just a man with muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial artist, actor, martial arts प्रशिक्षक, philosopher, and फिल्मकार.
The founder of Jeet Kune Do, Lee was the son of cantonese ओपेरा star ली Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely considered by commentators, आलोचकों, media और other martial कलाकारों to be one of the most influential martial artists of all time, and a pop culture प्रतीक of the 20th century.
He is often credited with helping to change the way Asians were presented in अमरीकी films.
Lee was born in Chinatown, सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 नवम्बर 1940 to अभिभावक from हांग Kong और was उठाया in कोलून साथ his family until his late teens.
he थी introduced to the film industry by his पिता और appeared in अनेक films as a child actor.
Lee moved to the संयुक्त राज्य at the age of 18 to receive his higher education, and it was during this time कि he began teaching martial arts.
His हांग Kong और Hollywood -उपजd films elevated the traditional हांग Kong martial arts film to a new level of popularity and acclaim, sparking a surge of ब्याज in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The direction and tone of उसके films changed and influenced martial arts और martial arts films in Hong Kong and the rest of the world.
he is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) और Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ), directed और लिखा by Lee ; Warner भाइयो ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of मौत ( 1978 ), both directed by Robert Clouse.
Lee became an iconic फिगर ज्ञात throughout the world, विशेषकर among the Chinese, as he portrayed Chinese राष्ट्रवाद in उसके films.
he initially trained in Wing chun, लकिन later अस्वीकृत well-defined martial art styles, favouring instead the use of तकनीकों from विभिन्न sources, in the spirit of उसके personal martial arts philosophy, which he dubbed Jeet Kune do ( The Way of the intercepting Fist ).
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong Kong and the United States.
he died in कोलून Tong on 20 July 1973 at आयु 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ), chronic obstructive airway disease ( coad ), chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) और chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ), is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema, a जोड़ी of commonly co-existing रोगों of the lungs in which the एयरवेज़ narrow over time.
This limits airflow to and इससे the lungs, causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ).
In clinical practice, COPD is पारिभाषित by its characteristically low airflow on lung function tests.
In contrast to दमा, इस limitation is poorly reversible और usually gets progressively worse over time.
copd is caused by noxious particles or gas, सबसे commonly from tobacco धूम्रपान, which triggers an abnormal जलन जवाब in the फेफड़ों.
The निदान of COPD requires lung function tests.
Important management रणनीति are smoking cessation, vaccinations, rehabilitation, and ड्रग therapy ( often using inhalers ).
कुछ patients go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or फेफड़ों transplantation.
विश्वव्यापी, COPD ranked as the sixth leading cause of death in 1990.
It is प्रक्षिप्त to become the fourth leading कारण of death worldwide by 2030, due to an increase in smoking दरों और demographic changes in अनेक countries.
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S., and the आर्थिक burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs और lost productivity.
annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank (, ?, ; 12 जून 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the most discussed यहूदी victims of the Holocaust.
उसके diary has महरूम the basis for अनेक plays and films.
Born in the city of फ्रैंकफर्ट am Main in Weimar Germany, वो lived most of उसके life in or near Amsterdam, in the नीदरलैंड्स.
Born a German national, फ़्रैंक lost उसके citizenship in 1941.
She gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published.
It documents her अनुभवों hiding दौरान the German occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स in World War II.
The Frank family moved from Germany to एम्सटर्डम in 1933, the year the Nazis gained control over Germany.
By the beginning of 1940, वे were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands.
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942, the परिवार went into hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father, Otto Frank 's, office building.
After दो years, the group was betrayed और transported to concentration camps.
Anne फ़्रैंक and her सिस्टर, Margot, were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen विशेषज्ञता camp, जहाँ they died of सन्निपात in March 1945.
Otto Frank, the only उत्तरजीवी of the परिवार, returned to Amsterdam after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved, and his efforts led to its publication in 1947.
It was translated इससे its original Dutch and first published in English in 1952 as the डायरी of a Young लड़की.
It has since been translated into many languages.
The diary, which थी given to ऐनी on उसके 13th birthday, chronicles her life इससे 12 June 1942 जबतक 1 अगस्त 1944.
Kurt 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( फ़रवरी 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) was an American musician and artist, best known as the lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle म्यूज़िक scene, having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record लेबल Sub पॉप in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found breakthrough success साथ `` खुश्बू Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of Nevermind, Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, थी often uncomfortable और frustrated, believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, साथ his personal issues प्रायः subject to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio album In utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of उसके life, Cobain struggled with हेरोइन addiction, illness और अवसाद.
He also had परेशानी coping with his fame and public चित्र, and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his बीवी, संगीतकार Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle, the victim of कया was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The circumstances of his मौत at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
चूंकि their debut, Nirvana, with Cobain as a songwriter, has sold over 25 million एल्बम in the u.S., और over 50 million worldwide.
Radial engine समय and cam mechanism.
Click for full resolution animation.
Radial engine of a बाईप्लेन
Master rod ( upright ), slaves और balances इससे a two-row, fourteen-cylinder pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating प्रकार internal combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a सेंट्रल crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel.
It resembles a stylized star when viewed from the front, and is called a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some भाषाएं.
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft इंजन before turbine engines became predominant.
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom, निर्मित by सुसान हैरिस, that originally aired on NBC from September 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
अभिनीत bea Arthur, Betty White, Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty, the show centers on four पुरानी women sharing a घर in Miami, फ्लोरिडा.
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions, in association with Touchstone Television, and Paul Junger witt, Tony Thomas, and Harris served as the original executive producers.
The सुनहरी Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its चलाएं and won several पुरस्कार, सहित the प्राइमटाइम एमी Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice.
It also won three Golden Globe पुरस्कार for Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy.
All चार stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the श्रेणी ' run and had multiple nominations.
The series also ranked among the top टेन highest-rated programs for six out of इसके seven seasons.
Deepwater drilling is the प्रक्रम of oil and gas exploration and उत्पादन in depths of more than 500 feet.
By this definition, there हैं approximately 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
It has been economically infeasible for many years, but with rising oil prices, more companies are investing in this क्षेत्रफल.
Major companies working in this sector include Diamond Offshore, TransOcean, and Baker Hughes.
वहीँ are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships.
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform.
Recent उद्योग analysis रै estimated that the total expenditure in the वैश्विक deepwater infrastructure market होगा reach $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not all आयल is accessible on land or in उथले water.
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.”... Using sonic equipment, आयल companies determine the drilling sites most likely to उपज आयल.
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig the initial well.
Some units are converted into production rigs, meaning they switch from खुदाई for oil to capturing oil once it 's found.
Most of the time, the आयल कम्पनी will replace the MODU with a more स्थाई oil production rig to capture oil.”... the MODU 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits.
The भाग of the drill कि extends below the deck and through the water is called the riser.
The riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the floor और the rig.
Engineers lower a drill string -- a श्रेणी of pipes designed to drill bas to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 मजदूर and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico जबकि a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the भूमध्यसागरीय और off the coast of ईस्ट Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such drilling, analyst say, is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the आयल so it is almost necessary to फेस the high risks that come with deepwater drilling in order लिये Americans to continue to carry on their रोज जीवनदान.
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 स्तर of 1.3 million barrels a day, स्टिल nearly a quarter of total घरेलू production, to 2 लाख barrels a day by 2020.”
deepwater खुदाई affects the environment in दोनो negative and positive ways.
Although Deepwater drilling rarely कल्याणकारी oil spills it is still a hazardous possible outcome.
Oil spills परिणाम in oil sinking to the नीचे of the ocean smothering plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to जीवित.
On the other hand deepwater drilling effects the environment in a positive तरीके too.
in time once the deepwater oil well is not in use anymore पौधे will grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal लिये पशु to thrive in.
Deepwater खुदाई also lets us see the depths of the समंदर floor कि are hardly कभी seen.
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of rare fish that हैं in there प्राकृतिक habitat, giving वैज्ञानिक a dekh at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron निगम ). ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी woman साथ whom United States President Bill क्लिंटन admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its repercussions ( which शामिल Clinton 's महाभियोग ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
फ्रांसिस अल्बर्ट `` Frank '' Sinatra,, ( December 12, 1915 – May 14, 1998 ) was an American singer and फिल्मी actor.
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry जेम्स और टॉमी Dorsey, Sinatra found unprecedented कामयाबी as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943.
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released उसके first एल्बम, The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946.
His पेशेवर करियर had stalled by the 1950s, but it was पुनर्जन्म in 1953 after he जीती the Academy Award for बेहतरीन Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to शाश्वत.
He signed with Capitol रिकॉर्ड in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours, Songs for swingin ' प्रेमियों !, Come Fly साथ Me, Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ).
सिनात्रा left Capitol to मिला his own record label, Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding कामयाबी with albums ऐसे as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !, Sinatra at the sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & अंतोनियो Carlos Jobim ), toured internationally, was a founding member of the Rat पैक और fraternized साथ celebrities and statesmen, including John F. Kennedy.
सिनात्रा turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective September of my Years, starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : a Man and His Music, and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way ``.
साथ बिक्री of उसके music dwindling and बाद appearing in several poorly received films, Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971.
दो सालो later, however, he came आउट of retirement and in 1973 recorded several albums, scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York, New यॉर्क `` in 1980.
using his Las Vegas shows as a home base, he toured दोनो भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और internationally, until a short time before his death in 1998.
Sinatra भी forged a highly कामयाब career as a film actor.
After winning Best Supporting कर्ता in 1953, he also garnered a nomination for Best Actor for The man with the Golden भुजा, and critical acclaim for his performance in The Manchurian Candidate.
He भी starred in such musicals as High Society, pal Joey, Guys and Dolls and On the Town.
Sinatra was honored at the कैनेडी Center Honors in 1983 और was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997.
He was the recipient of ग्यारह Grammy Awards, including the Grammy Trustees Award, Grammy Legend पुरस्कार and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling artists of सब time, having sold more than 150 million copies worldwide.
Typical cornhole board
Cornhole, भी known as bean bag toss, corn टॉस, baggo or bags, is a लॉन खेल in which players लो turns throwing मकई छेद bags at a raised platform साथ a hole in the far end.
A bag in the hole scores 3 points, while एक on the platform स्कोर 1 point.
Play continues until a team or खिलाड़ी reaches the score of 21.
The अमरीकी Gold Eagle is an official gold bullion सिक्का of the United States.
Authorized अंतर्गत the सुनहरा Bullion Coin Act of 1985, it was first released by the संयुक्त राज्य Mint in 1986.
बिक्रम Yoga is a प्रणाली of yoga that बिक्रम Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s.
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 minutes and consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises.
Bikram योग is ideally practiced in a room heated to 105°f ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 %,.
क्रिस्टोफर माइकल Massey ( born 26 जनवरी 1990 ) is an American actor, comedian and rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in निकलोडियन television series Zoey 101.
Massey has received many awards and nomination including a Young Artist Award और एमी Awards nominations.
He is also known for appearing in several commercials in the जल्दी 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon made of बेदाग steel.
A teaspoon is an मद of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument, as well as a unit of measurement of volume in कुछ countries and customs.
A फर्न is कोई one or more of a समूह of about 12,000 प्रजाति of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, वे have xylem and phloem ( making them vascular पौधे ).
They have stems, leaves, और roots like other vascular plants.
Ferns reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers.
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, लकिन ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, और ophioglossoid ferns.
the term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( see classification section below ).
ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 लाख years ago in the early Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ).
ferns are not of major economic importance, लकिन some are grown or gathered लिये food, as ornamental plants, for remediating contaminated soils, और have been the subject of research for उनके ability to remove कुछ chemical pollutants from the एयर.
Some हैं significant weeds.
They also play a भूमिका in mythology, medicine, and आर्ट.
Flat roofs in Israel
Flat roof in Los Angeles
a flat roof is a type of covering for a building.
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof, a चपटा roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : roofs जिससे are nearly flat हैं ज्ञात as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases, so the pitch is कहा to बढ़ाएँ ).
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually known as a membrane और the प्राथमिक purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water from some flat roofs ऐसे as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely बंद the edge of a roof, though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry.
Gutters on smaller roofs प्रायः lead water directly onto the ground, or बेहतर, into a specially made soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs प्रायः सीसे जल into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area.
occasionally चपटा roofs though are designed to collect जल in a pool, usually for aesthetic उद्देश्य, or for rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs exist सब over the world and each area has its अपना परंपरा or preference for materials used.
In warmer climes where rainfall is कम and freezing is असंभावित to occur, many चपटा roofs हैं simply built of masonry or कंक्रीट and this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build जहाँ timber is नहीं readily available.
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak, or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) ये roofs are not suitable.
traditionally most चपटा roofs in the western world make use of तारकोल or more usually tar paper applied over roof अलंकार to keep a building watertight.
The तारकोल or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat, UV किरणें and मौसम off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering and degradation.
Roof अलंकार is usually of plywood, chipboard or osb boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board, also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness.
the tar कोटिंग is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid, heated in a तारकोल kettle, or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by hot tar - once it रै cooled, the gravel is spread evenly over it.
A main reason for विफलता of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of मेंटेनेंस where people or events cause the gravel to be स्थानांतरित or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing, thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in.
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar.
as बजरी can नहीं protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet दीवारें or upstands, tarpaper variants are उत्पादित with ठीक gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture ऐसे that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection.
Tarpapers vary in विशेषता as करता the workmanship and training of those applying it to उपज अधिक or less successful results.
In some micro climates or shaded क्षेत्रों these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them, however the लागत of modern membranes ऐसे as EPDM रै come down over recent years to make them more और more affordable.
There are now अधिक firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing जागरूकता of their performance और availability.
if a लीक does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the decking और कोई insulation and/or structure beneath it.
This can lead to expensive damage from the rot which प्रायः develops and if left can weaken the roof structure.
There हैं also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould बीजाणुओं : the गंभीरता of इस health risk remains a debated point.
One problem with maintaining चपटा roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a आधुनिक झिल्ली ) it can सफर a long रास्ता before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be देखी.
Thus it is नहीं आसान to see where it is leaking in अनुक्रम to repair it.
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in कि area and the problem worsens.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact डिस्क which contains data.
The नाम is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory ``.
Computers can read CD-ROMs, but can not write on उन्हें.
cd-roms are popularly used to distribute computer software, including video games and multimedia अनुप्रयोग, though any data can be stored ( up to the क्षमता सीमा of a disc ).
कुछ CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold दोनो computer data और audio साथ the latter सक्षम of होने played on a CD player, while data ( ऐसे as software or digital video ) is only usable on a कंप्यूटर ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the स्वरूप of CD-ROMs.
One of a नियत of color-bound किताबे that contain the technical विशेषताएँ for सब cd formats, the Yellow किताब, created by Sony and Philips, was the first extension of Compact डिस्क Digital Audio.
It adapted the format to hold any form of data.
Joanne `` Jo '' रोलिंग ( ), ( born 31 July 1965 ), pen नाम J. K. Rowling, is a British novelist, best known as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series.
The कुम्हार किताबे have gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान, जीती multiple awards, and बेची more than 400 लाख copies.
They have become the best-selling किताब series in इतिहास, and been the basis for a series of films जिससे रै become the highest-grossing film series in history.
Rowling had overall स्वीकृति on the scripts as well as maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment.
Born in Yate, ग्लॉस्टरशायर, रोलिंग was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the विचार for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990.
the seven-year period that followed entailed the मौत of her mother, divorce from उसके पहला husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the last, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to the series.
In 2012, Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the रूप of a tragicomedy novel aimed at वयस्क readership, entitled The Casual Vacancy.
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed लिये वयस्कों, the other for children younger than the Harry Potter audience, and she expects the latter to be published first.
Rowling has led a `` rags to अमीरी `` life story, in which she progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status भीतर five years.
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling लेखक since records began, साथ बिक्री in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at £560 million ( $ 798 लाख ), ranking her as the बारहवीं richest woman in the United Kingdom.
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth सबसे powerful हस्ती of 2007, and समय magazine named उसके as a runner-up लिये its 2007 Person of the Year, noting the social, moral, और राजनैतिक inspiration she has given her प्रशंसक.
In October 2010, Rowling थी named the `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine editors.
She रै become a notable philanthropist, supporting such charities as Comic Relief, एक Parent Families, Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level समूह ).
Auburndale is a city in Polk County, Florida, United States.
the population was 11,032 at the 2000 census.
according to the U.S Census estimates of 2005, the city had a population of 12,381.
It is part of the lakeland – Winter Haven महानगर Statistical Area.
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit दौरान Expedition 7 of the International Space Station.
The eye, eyewall, and surrounding rainbands, characteristics of tropical cyclones, हैं clearly visible in इस view from space.
A तीव्र cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure बीच surrounded by a spiral व्यवस्था of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy बरसात.
Tropical cyclones strengthen जब जल evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises, resulting in condensation of water वाष्प contained in the moist air.
They are fueled by a different ऊष्मा mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters, यूरोपीय windstorms, and polar चढ़ाव.
The characteristic कि separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at कोई height in the atmosphere, the center of a tropical cyclone होगा be warmer than its surroundings ; a घटना called `` गरम core `` storm systems.
the term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical उत्पत्ति of these systems, which usually form in tropical regions of the globe, and to their formation in मेरीटाइम तीव्र एयर masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature, साथ counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere.
The opposite दिशा of the wind flow is a result of the Coriolis force.
Depending on its location and strength, a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane (, ), तूफ़ान ( ), tropical storm, cyclonic storm, तीव्र अवसाद, और simply cyclone.
While tropical cyclones can उपज अत्यधिक powerful winds and torrential rain, they are also समर्थ to produce high लहरें, damaging तूफ़ान surge, and tornadoes.
वे develop over large लाशें of warm जल, and lose their strength if they move over land due to increased surface friction and loss of the गरम ocean as an energy source.
This is क्यों तटीय regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone, while inland regions are अपेक्षाकृत सुरक्षित from receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can produce significant बाढ़ अंतर्देशीय, और storm surges can उपज extensive coastal flooding up to इससे the coastline.
हालांकि उनके effects on इंसान populations can be devastating, tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions.
वे also carry heat energy away from the tropics और transport it toward temperate latitudes, which makes उन्हें an important part of the global वायुमंडलीय circulation mechanism.
As a result, tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the Earth 's troposphere, और to maintain a अपेक्षाकृत stable and warm temperature worldwide.
Many tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are अनुकूल.
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation, El Niño-Southern Oscillation, and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation.
अन्य form when other types of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics.
तीव्र systems are then moved by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable, the tropical disturbance intensifies, and can even develop an नजर.
On the other end of the spectrum, if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall, the system weakens और आखिरकार dissipates.
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems with वर्तमान technology.
Kirk डगलस ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; December 9, 1916 ) is an American स्टेज and film actor, film producer and author.
His लोकप्रिय films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ), Champion ( 1949 ), Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ), The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ), 20,000 लीग Under the Sea ( 1954 ), Lust लिये Life ( 1956 ), Paths of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the O.K. Corral ( 1957 ), The Vikings ( 1958 ), Spartacus ( 1960 ), निर्जन Are the Brave ( 1962 ), Seven Days in May ( 1964 ), The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ).
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the महानतम male American screen legends of all time, making him the highest-ranked living person on the list.
In 1996, he प्राप्त the अकादमी Honorary Award `` for 50 सालो as a creative and moral फ़ोर्स in the motion picture community. ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from हॉलीवुड 's `` golden age ''.
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6, 1945 ) is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist, he performed and recorded as Bob Seger and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s.
By the early 1970s, he had dropped the `` System '' from उसके recordings and जारी to strive for broader success with other various bands.
In 1973, he put together The Silver Bullet बैंड, a group of Detroit-area musicians, साथ whom he became सबसे successful on the नेशनल level with the album सजीव Bullet, recorded live साथ the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo हॉल in Detroit, Michigan.
In 1976, he achieved a national breakout with the studio एल्बम Night चालें.
On his स्टुडियो albums, he also worked extensively with the Alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section, जिससे appeared on अनेक of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
a roots rocker साथ a classic raspy, चिल्लाना voice, Seger wrote and recorded songs that dealt with love, women, blue-collar विषयवस्तु and was an exemplar of heartland rock.
Seger has recorded अनेक hits, including `` रात्रि Moves, '' `` फेरे the Page, '' `` We 've मिला Tonight, '' `` विरूद्ध the Wind, '' and Shakedown that was लिखा for Beverly Hills Cop ii और `` Like a Rock, '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
His iconic recording of `` Old समय Rock and Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001.
साथ a करियर spanning five decades, seger continues to perform and record today.
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 और the Songwriters हॉल of Fame in 2012.
Richard milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th अध्यक्ष of the United States, serving from 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to इस्तीफा the office.
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in Yorba Linda, California.
He graduated इससे whittier College in 1934 और Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to California to अभ्यास law.
He and his wife, Pat Nixon, स्थानांतरित to Washington to work for the federal government in 1942.
He subsequently served in the संयुक्त States नेवी during World युद्ध II.
निक्सन was elected in California to the House of Representatives in 1946 and to the सीनेट in 1950.
His pursuit of the alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, and elevated him to national prominence.
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Republican पार्टी presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
निक्सन served for eight years as vice अध्यक्ष.
he waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय campaign in 1960, narrowly खोने to John F. Kennedy, and खोया a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again for the presidency and was elected.
हालांकि Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam युद्ध, he subsequently ended U.S. भागीदारी in 1973.
निक्सन 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations, and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states.
among other things, he launched initiatives to fight cancer और illegal दवाएँ, imposed wage and price controls, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, और स्थापित the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning साथ Apollo 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
he was re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
Nixon 's second पद देखी an Arab oil embargo, the इस्तीफा of his वाइस president, Spiro agnew, and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate कांड and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of उसके political support, और on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office.
After his resignation, he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
in retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his public चित्र.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, and died four days later at the age of 81.
{ { Infobox सीनेटर
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused bitter contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner.
Brady 1869 ] ]
sen. Sumner, opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would सीसे to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti, became convinced that भ्रष्टाचार lay behind the treaty, and that men बंद to the president shared in the corruption.
as अध्यक्ष of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had महरूम leaked information from सहायक Secretary of राज्य, Bancroft Davis, that u.s. Naval ships were being प्रयुक्त to protect President Báez.
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted विरूद्ध annexation and at Sen. Sumner’s सुझाव और quite possibly to save the party from an ugly लड़ो or the अध्यक्ष from embarrassment, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind बंद doors in कार्यपालिका session.
President Grant persisted और sent messages to Congress in एहसान of annexation on March 14, 1870, और May 31, 1870.
In closed session, Sen. Sumner spoke out विरूद्ध the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals, noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island, and the risk that the independence of हैती, पहचाना by the United States in 1862, होता be lost.
Sumner stated that ग्रान्ट 's use of the u.S. Navy as a protectorate was a violation of International law और unconstitutional.
Finally, on June 30, 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate और failed to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage.
the following day, President Grant, feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley, Ambassador to Britain.
By autumn, Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge, and he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned, बल्कि than let Grant have उसके रास्ता.
the two men, friends until तब, cooled into bitter enemies.
in December, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow, Sumner gave a fiercely नाजुक वाक accusing the president of usurpation and babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, President ग्रान्ट, supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, had initiated a अभियान to depose sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate विदेशी Relations Committee.
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '', in addition to having रोका Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt, Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act, अवरोधित Grant 's nomination of Alexander स्टीवर्ट to U.S. Secretary of Treasury, और been a constant harassing force pushing पुनर्निर्माण नीतियों faster than Grant had been willing to go.
Grant resented Sumner 's superiority of manner, as well.
Told once that Sumner did नहीं believe in the Bible, the president is supposed to have कहा that he was नहीं surprised : `` he किया n't write it. ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased, Sumner’s health began to decline.
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4, 1871, Senators affiliated with President Grant, known as ‘’New Radicals’’ voted to oust sen. sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship.
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems कि arise in a business environment.
it applies to all aspects of business conduct and is प्रासंगिक to the conduct of individuals and entire संगठन.
Business ethics has both normative and descriptive आयाम.
As a कॉरपोरेट practice और a career specialization, the field is primarily normative.
Academics attempting to understand business behavior employ descriptive methods.
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the बातचीत of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s और 1990s, both within major corporations and within academia.
For उदाहरण, आज most प्रमुख corporations promote उनके commitment to non-economic values under headings ऐसे as आचार codes and सोशल responsibility charters.
Adam Smith कहा, `` People of the same trade seldom मिलें together, भी for merriment and diversion, लकिन the वार्तालाप ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in कुछ contrivance to उठाएँ prices. ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in कया they perceive to be beneficial directions.
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control.
The emergence of large corporations साथ limited संबंध और sensitivity to the communities in जिससे they operate accelerated the विकास of formal ethics regimes.
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat, electricity, रसायन, friction, or radiation.
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( ज्ञात as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ).
Rarely सब layers of the skin or deeper tissues, such as muscle or अस्थि can be injured in which मामला the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree.
The treatment required depends on the गंभीरता of the burn.
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple पीड़ा killers while major burns may आवश्यकता prolonged treatment in specialized बर्न centers.
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may result in कम body temperature.
Partial मोटाई burns may require cleaning साथ soap और water followed by dressings.
Blisters चाहिए typically be left unbroken.
Full thickness burns usually आवश्यकता surgical उपचार such as skin grafting and extensive burns प्रायः require large amount of intravenous fluids.
the most common complications of burns हैं related to infection.
While large burns can be fatal, आधुनिक treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes, विशेषकर in children and young वयस्कों.
Globally about 11 million people seek medical treatment and 300,000 people die from burns.
In the United States, of those admitted to a burn बीच, लगभग 4 % die from their injuries.
The long पद निष्कर्ष is primarily related to the size of burn and the age of the person effected.
The Atlantic समंदर, not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
इस video was taken by the crew of Expedition 29 on board the ISS.
The pass starts from just north-east of the Island of Newfoundland over the उत्तर Atlantic Ocean to central Africa, over South Sudan.
the Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic divisions.
With a total area of about, it covers लगभग 20 प्रतिशत of the धरती 's surface and परिचय 29 percent of its water सतह area.
the पहला part of इसके name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology, making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas ''.
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( hdt. 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ).
The term Ethiopic Ocean, derived from Ethiopia, was applied to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century.
Before Europeans खोजा other oceans, the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous साथ the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that we now know as the अटलांटिक.
the early Greeks believed this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world.
the अटलांटिक Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped जलाशय extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east, and the americas to the west.
As one component of the interconnected global ocean, it is कनेक्ट in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a समुद्र of the Atlantic ), to the Pacific Ocean in the दक्षिणपश्चिम, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to अंटार्कटिक. )
the equator subdivides it into the उत्तर Atlantic समंदर and दक्षिण अटलांटिक Ocean.
Due to their long-term persistence, and the need for a अद्वितीय identifier in issuing forecasts and warnings, तीव्र cyclones and subtropical cyclones are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ).
The following are lists from which these tropical and उपोष्ण cyclone names are निकला.
श्वेत light is dispersed by a प्रिज़्म into the colors of the optical spectrum.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye.
इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation in this range of wavelengths is पुकारा दृश्य light or simply light.
A typical human eye होगा respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm.
In शर्तें of frequency, this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
A light-adapted eye generally रै its अधिकतम sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ), in the ग्रीन region of the optical spectrum ( see : दीप्ति function ).
the वर्णक्रम करता not, however, contain all the colors that the human eyes और दिमाग can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors such as pink, or purple variations ऐसे as magenta, are absent, for example, because they can be बना तभी by a मिक्सर of multiple wavelengths.
Colors containing only one wavelength are also called pure रंगों.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical खिड़की ``, the region of the electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's माहौल.
an example of this phenomenon is that clean air scatters blue light more than red wavelengths, and so the midday sky appears blue.
The optical window is also पुकारा the visible window क्युकी it overlaps the human visible जवाब spectrum.
The निकट infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the इंसान vision, as well as the मीडियम Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) खिड़की and the long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them.
अनेक species can देखिए लाइट with frequencies outside the `` visible spectrum, '' which is defined in terms of इंसान vision.
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet light, which helps them find nectar in flowers.
Plant species कि depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light, rather than how colorful वे appear to humans.
पक्षियों, too, can see into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ), and some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range.
Many animals कि can see into the पराबैंगनी range, however, can not see red light or कोई other reddish wavelengths.
Bees ' visible वर्णक्रम ends at about 590nm, just before the orange wavelengths प्रारंभ.
Birds, however, can see some red wavelengths, but not as many as humans.
Zebras ( or ) are अनेक species of अफ़्रीकी equids ( घोड़ा family ) संयुक्त by their distinctive black and श्वेत stripes.
Their stripes come in different patterns, unique to प्रत्येक individual.
वे are generally social animals that सजीव in small harems to विशाल herds.
Unlike their closest relatives, horses and asses, zebras have never been truly domesticated.
There are three species of zebras : the मैदान zebra, the Grévy 's zebra and the पहाड़ zebra.
the मैदान zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus hippotigris, लकिन grévy 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an ass, to which it is closely related, while the former दो are more horse-like.
सब three belong to the genus Equus, along with other living equids.
The अद्वितीय stripes of zebras make उन्हें one of the animals most familiar to people.
They occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, woodlands, thorny scrublands, mountains, and coastal hills.
However, various anthropogenic factors have had a severe प्रभाव on zebra populations, in particular hunting लिये skins और habitat destruction.
Grévy 's zebra और the पहाड़ zebra are endangered.
While plains zebras are much more plentiful, एक subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the late 19th century – though there is currently a plan, called the Quagga Project, that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a प्रक्रम called प्रजनन back.
Barry श्वेत, born Barry Eugene Carter ( – ), was an American composer and singer-songwriter.
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive बास आवाज़ and romantic image, White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo सिंगर and with the Love असीमित ऑर्केस्ट्रा, crafting many enduring soul, funk, and डिस्को गीतों such as his two biggest हिट्स, `` तुम 're the First, the Last, My Everything `` and `` ca n't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe. ''
Along with Isaac Hayes, White is considered by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s.
दौरान the course of his करियर in the music business, White achieved 106 सुनहरा albums विश्वव्यापी, 41 of which also attained platinum status.
White had 20 सुनहरा and 10 platinum singles, साथ worldwide sales in excess of 100 million, according to critics ed Hogan and वेड Kergan.
His influences included Rev. James क्लीवलैंड, रे Charles, Aretha Franklin प्लस motown artists The Supremes, The Four Tops and मारविन gaye.
Angelina Jolie (, born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4, 1975 ) is an American actress, film director, and screenwriter.
She has received an Academy Award, दो Screen Actors गिल्ड Awards, and three सुनहरी Globe Awards, और was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011.
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes, and is noted for her work with refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United राष्ट्र High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ).
She has प्रायः महरूम cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman, a title for which she has प्राप्त substantial मीडिया attention.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside उसके father Jon Voight in lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ), लकिन उसके film career began in सच्चाई a decade बाद with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
उसके first leading role in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ).
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films जार्ज Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ), and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama लड़की, बाधित ( 1999 ).
जोली achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb रेडर ( 2001 ), and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ).
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated commercial successes to date—and received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and changeling ( 2008 ), जिससे earned her a नामांकन लिये an Academy पुरस्कार for Best Actress.
Jolie made her directorial debut with the wartime drama In the जमीन of Blood और Honey ( 2011 ).
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton, Jolie अभी lives with actor Brad Pitt, in a relationship notable for fervent मीडिया attention.
Jolie and pitt have three biological children and three adopted children.
A natural arch produced by the erosion of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz, Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock हैं removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes such as हवा or जल प्रवाह, and then transported और deposited in other locations.
जबकि erosion is a natural प्रक्रम, human activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally.
excessive erosion causes problems such as मरुस्थलीकरण, decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation, sedimentation of waterways, and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers.
Water और हवा erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined, they are responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive erosion one of the most significant global पर्यावरणीय problems.
Industrial agriculture, वनों, roads, anthropogenic climate change and शहरी sprawl हैं amongst the most significant human क्रियाएँ in regard to their effect on stimulating अपरदन.
However, there are अनेक available alternative land use practices that can curtail or सीमा erosion, such as terrace -building, no-till agriculture, and revegetation of denuded soils.
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which भागा on MTV from December 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the United States.
The series follows the lives of eight housemates बिता their गर्मियाँ at the जर्सी Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the ठंडा northeast शीत to Miami बीच, with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
the fourth ऋतु, filmed in इटली, premiered on August 4, 2011.
The show लौटे लिये a पांचवां season, at Seaside हाइट्स on January 5, 2012.
The fifth ऋतु finale aired on कूच 15, 2012.
on March 19, 2012, MTV पुष्टि that the series would वापसी for their sixth season.
On August 30, 2012, MTV announced that the series होगा end after the sixth season, which premiered on October 4.
The series finale aired on December 20, 2012.
the show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette, '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes, और scrutiny from locals because the cast members were not निवासियों of the area.
The श्रेणी garnered record ratings for MTV, making it the संजाल 's most viewed series telecast ever.
The series ' cast have also been credited साथ introducing unique lexicon और वाक्यांश into American popular culture.
The University of Chicago और the University of Oklahoma are among the शैक्षणिक संस्थानों कि have had classes or conferences about the show.
In 2010, the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara Walters ' 10 सबसे Fascinating People list, and the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide.
There are several remakes of the show in other देशों, with two set in the संयुक्त Kingdom ; the well known Geordie shore, set in Newcastle upon Tyne, England.
The अन्य is the घाटियों, the Welsh equivalent, जिससे is फिल्माया and set in Cardiff.
The तभी other official remake of the show is Gandía Shore, set in Gandía, Spain.
right
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the संघीय सरकारी of the United States, including all waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all U.S. Naval vessels.
The संयुक्त States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring, exploiting, conserving, और मैनेजिंग its territory.
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to, और under the dominion of, the United राज्य federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance इससे the देश ) लिये administrative and other उद्देश्य.
The United राज्य कुल territory includes a उपसमुच्चय of political divisions.
The U.S. सरकारी is a government साथ प्रतिनिधित्व शक्तियां under the United States Constitution.
`` the powers not delegated to the संयुक्त राज्य by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, हैं reserved to the States respectively, or to the people '' by the दसवाँ Amendment.
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction कार्रवाई फिल्मी directed by Jonathan mostow and अभिनीत Arnold Schwarzenegger, उपनाम Stahl, Claire Danes and kristanna Loken.
It is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to kill सारा Connor before her बेटे is born और to kill John himself as a child, it sends back another Terminator, the t-x, in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as संभावित.
This includes John 's भविष्य wife, but not जॉन खुद as उसके whereabouts are unknown to Skynet.
John 's जीवन is placed in danger when the T-X accidentally finds उसे.
A cord of wood
The cord is a unit of माप of dry volume used in Canada and the United States to measure ईधन and pulpwood.
A cord is the राशि of wood कि, when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces हैं aligned, parallel, touching and compact ), occupies a आवाज़ of.
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high, long, and deep ; or any other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume.
The name cord probably comes from the use of a cord or string to measure it.
The, is an 8-bit handheld वीडियो खेल device developed and manufactured by Nintendo.
It थी released in Japan on, in North अमेरिका in, and in Europe on.
It is the first हैंडहेल्ड console in the Game Boy लकीर, and was created by Gunpei Yokoi और Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games लिये the Nintendo Entertainment System.
redesigned संस्करण were released in 1996 and 1998, in the form of Game Boy Pocket, and Game Boy लाइट ( जापानी तभी ), respectively.
The खेल Boy is निन्टेंडो 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch श्रेणी introduced in, and it combined features इससे both the Nintendo Entertainment प्रणाली and Game & Watch.
It was originally bundled with the puzzle game टेट्रिस.
As part of the fourth generation of gaming, the खेल Boy competed with the Sega Game गियर, Atari Lynx, and the TurboExpress.
Despite ये other technologically श्रेष्ठ handheld consoles, the Game Boy was a tremendous कामयाबी.
The Game Boy and its successor, the Game Boy Color, have both combined बेची 118.69 million units worldwide.
upon its release in the United States, it sold its entire shipment of one million units within weeks.
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings under construction in निम्नतर मैनहटन, New York City, संयुक्त States, replacing an earlier जटिल of seven buildings with the वही name on the same site.
The original World Trade बीच featured landmark जुड़वा towers, which खोली on April 4, 1973 और यहूद destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001, along with 7 संसार Trade Center.
The other buildings in the complex were damaged in the attacks, and their ruins were eventually demolished.
the site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a मेमोरियल to those killed in the attacks.
, only one skyscraper has been समाप्त ; the अन्य four are अपेक्षित to be समाप्त before 2020.
One World Trade बीच will be the lead building for the new complex, reaching more than 100 कहानियां at its completion.
It became the tallest भवन in नई York City on April 30, 2012, and is expected to be finished by 2013.
a sixth tower is awaiting confirmation.
At the time of their completion, the original 1 संसार Trade बीच ( the North मीनार ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ), known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '', were the tallest buildings in the world.
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott संसार Trade बीच ), 4 WTC, 5 WTC, 6 wtc, and 7 WTC.
All of these इमारतें were built between 1975 and 1985.
The cost for the निर्माण was $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ).
the complex was located in the heart of New York City 's downtown financial district and contained 13.4 million वर्गाकार feet ( 1.24 लाख m2 ) of office space.
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 and a डकैती on, 1998.
in 1998, the Port Authority decided to privatize the World व्यापार Center, leasing the buildings to a private company to manage, और awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
On the morning of सितंबर 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers उड़ाया दो बोइंग 767 jets into the complex, one into each tower, in a समन्वित terrorist आक्रमण.
After burning लिये 56 minutes, the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour बाद by the North Tower ( 1 ), with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths.
गिरना मलबा from the towers, combined with फ़ायर that the debris initiated in several surrounding इमारतें, led to the partial or complete collapse of सब the other इमारतें in the जटिल and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area.
the प्रक्रम of क्लीनअप और recovery at the World व्यापार Center site took eight months.
Over the following years, योजनाएँ लिये a rebuilt World Trade Center took form.
The first new building at the साईट थी 7 World Trade Center, which opened in.
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ), स्थापित in to oversee the rebuilding process, व्यवस्थित competitions to चुनें a site plan and memorial design.
Memory Foundations, designed by Daniel Libeskind, थी selected as the master plan, but this went through substantial changes in डिज़ाइन.
the new World Trade Center complex will शामिल एक World Trade Center, तीन other high-rise office towers, and the नेशनल September 11 Memorial & Museum.
सैन Gabriel Mountains
San Bernardino kyu, साथ Mt. San gorgonio in the अग्रभूमि and Big Bear Lake in the background.
The अनुप्रस्थ Ranges are a group of mountain सीमाएँ of southern California, in the प्रशांत Coast Ranges physiographic region in North America.
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Coast Ranges और lie between Santa Barbara और San Diego counties.
They derive the name अनुप्रस्थ Ranges due to their East-West orientation, making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains.
आवधिक table with इलेक्ट्रॉन shells
An electron शेल may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an अणु 's nucleus.
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( भी called `` k shell '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L शेल '' ), then the `` 3 शेल '' ( or `` M शेल '' ), and so on farther and farther from the nucleus.
The shell letters k, L, m,..., used in the X-ray notation, are alphabetical.
Each shell can contain only a फिक्स्ड number of electrons : The 1st शेल can थाम up to two electrons, the 2nd shell can थाम up to आठ electrons, the 3rd शेल can hold up to 18, और 4th शेल can hold up to 32 and so on.
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the केंद्रक, an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner शेल have already been completely filled by other electrons.
However, इस is not a सख्त requirement : Atoms may have two or even three incomplete outer शेल.
( See Madelung rule for more विवरण. )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these shells see electron विन्यास.
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the chemical गुण of the atom ; it is called the valence shell.
Each shell consists of one or more subshells, and each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals.
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( née Hogan ; November 28, 1967 – February 8, 2007 ), known by her moniker Anna निकोल Smith, was an American model, अभिनेत्री, and television personality.
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy, becoming the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
She modeled for clothing कंपनियाँ, including Guess जीन्स and Lane Bryant.
Smith dropped out of high स्कूल and was married in 1985.
Her अत्यधिक publicized second marriage to oil business mogul, J. Howard Marshall, 62 years उसके senior, resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for उसके money, which she अस्वीकृत.
Following Marshall 's death, Smith began a lengthy विधिक battle over a share of his एस्टेट.
Her मामला, मार्शल v. Marshall, reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a सवाल of federal jurisdiction, and again on a question of bankruptcy court प्राधिकार ( अभी called Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a Hollywood, Florida hotel रूम as a result of an overdose of नुस्खा दवाएँ.
Within the final छह months of her life, Smith was the focus of a नवीनीकृत press coverage surrounding the मौत of her son, Daniel, and the paternity and कस्टडी battle over her newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
The is one denomination of Japanese yen.
The वर्तमान design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese वर्ण known as the `` new स्क्रिप्ट ``, and were also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters.
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when, due to the much higher value of the येन, वे यहूद minted in सुनहरा ).
the front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing आउट of the जल, with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' and the year of issue, भी in kanji, separated by sprouts of a पेड़.
The three graphic तत्व of the सिक्का represent agriculture और fisheries, the कुंजी elements of the Japanese first-sector economy.
Around a hole, there is a gear that represents उद्योग.
It is the only Japanese coin in परिसंचरण to कमी Arabic numerals on either फेस.
tlc is an अमरीकी girl group whose रंगमंडल spanned r & B, hip hop, soul, funk, and new jack झूले.
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins, rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer rozonda `` chilli '' Thomas, the समूह मिला unprecedented success in the 1990s while भी enduring a series of spats with the law, each अन्य, and the group 's record label.
Initially, TLC achieved commercial success following the release of their debut album ooooooohhh...
On the TLC Tip, which sold 6 million copies विश्वव्यापी.
However, it was their दूसरी album, crazysexycool, that catapulted the group to superstar status.
CrazySexyCool गई on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female group, और eventually sold 23 million नक़ल worldwide.
Five years later, the group released their third एल्बम FanMail, which became the group 's first एल्बम to debut at number one और बेची more than 11 million नक़ल worldwide.
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the highest grossing tour of all time by a female बैंड.
In 2002, Lisa `` बाएँ Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras.
सात months later, T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D, which sold 2 million copies worldwide, it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye.
बिलबोर्ड magazine ranked tlc as one of the greatest musical trios.
Between 1992 and 2003, the band accumulated ten top ten singles, four number one singles, four multi-platinum एल्बम, and four Grammy Awards.
At the end of 1999, TLC थी क्रमित as the seventh most कामयाब act of the 1990s by Billboard.
In 2008, the group थी inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine, at 56th place.
That साल it was also सूचीबद्ध as the # 25 R & b/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years.
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and वे are ranked as the second बेहतरीन selling मादा group of all time, and the best selling female R & B group of all time.
In 2012, TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest महिलाओं in Music, being ranked the number एक all girl group on that list.
Tarzan is a 1999 अमरीकी animated adventure film उत्पादित by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
the 37th फिल्मी in the Walt Disney Animated Classics, it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs, and is the only प्रमुख गति picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated.
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by tab मर्फी, Bob tzudiker, और Noni White, टार्ज़न features the voices of टोनी Goldwyn, Minnie Driver, ग्लेन Close, and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed, Lance Henriksen, Wayne Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It was the last bona fide hit पहले the Disney slump of the जल्दी 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically और $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing its पूर्ववर्तियों Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the time of its release, इसके production budget of $ 130 million made it the सबसे expensive एनिमेटेड film ever made, until topped by डिज़्नी 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002.
It was also the first Disney animated विशेषता to open at # 1 चूंकि pocahontas.
This थी the पिछला major बक्सा office success of the डिज़्नी Renaissance.
Oil Platform P-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible platform.
Oil मंच mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform, ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill wells, to निकालें and प्रक्रम आयल और natural gas, and to temporarily स्टोर उत्पाद until it can be brought to shore लिये refining and marketing.
In many मामले, the platform contains facilities to house the workforce as well.
Depending on the circumstances, the platform may be फिक्स्ड to the ocean floor, may consist of an artificial island, or may float.
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by प्रवाह lines and by umbilical connections.
These subsea solutions may consist of एक or more subsea wells, or of one or more manifold centres for multiple कुएं.
Slaughter is the killing of animals, usually that of domestic livestock लिये food.
the animals most commonly slaughtered for food हैं cattle, जल भैंस ( for beef and veal ), sheep, बकरियों ( for मेमने and mutton ), pigs ( for पोर्क ), horses ( for horse मांस ), और fowl, largely chickens, turkeys, and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish खेती ).
the White House, the president 's official निवास and center of the administration
Under the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, the President of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole, the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and मान्यता.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
the president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives चाहिए the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of मत to any person ).
Since the अनुसमर्थन of the Twenty-second Amendment to the संयुक्त States Constitution in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be elected President more than twice, and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, इस्तीफा, or removal इससे office of an लाज़िम President, the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the office.
The अध्यक्ष must be at least 35 years of age and a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those व्यक्तियों who were sworn into दफ्तर as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
For American leaders before इस ratification, see President of the Continental Congress.
The list does not शामिल any Acting Presidents under the twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States संविधान.
There have महरूम 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover क्लीवलैंड परोसा two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, चार died in office of natural causes ( William Henry हैरिसन, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding, and Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. गारफ़ील्ड, William McKinley, और जॉन F. Kennedy ) and एक resigned ( रिचर्ड Nixon ).
George Washington, the पहला president, was inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest समय in office with 32 दिनों in 1841, and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years, but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two terms, और a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting presidents after Harry Truman, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be elected by मेन of all वर्ग in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first elected after महिलाओं gained मतदान rights in 1920.
History रिकॉर्ड चार presidents – John Q एडम्स, Rutherford B. हेज़, Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost the लोकप्रिय vote but assumed दफ्तर.
जॉन F. Kennedy रै been the तभी president of Roman Catholic faith, and the current president, बराक ओबामा, is the first president of African descent.
Several firearms with detachable suppressors, इससे top to bottom : An Uzi, An AR-15, a Heckler & koch USP Tactical, A Beretta 92FS, and a SIG Mosquito.
Bolt action rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with attached suppressor.
A suppressor, ध्वनि suppressor, or sound moderator, is a device संलग्न to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the राशि of रव, and usually the amount of muzzle flash, generated by firing the weapon.
A suppressor can be used both with a firearm and with compressed air गन.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, this पद is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the ध्वनि of a projectile, especially one moving faster than the speed of sound, through the air can not be eliminated.
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e. greater than 300 meters ) can lessen, or retard, the report at the पल of impact, and create the impression of silence near the निशाना.
the noise सुना near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel, though subdued, is not silent at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the गति of the bullet.
Early suppressors यहूद created around the beginning of the 20th century by several inventors.
अमरीकी inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens कहावत, Hiram पर्सी 's father, and the inventor of the Maxim Machine गन ), is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially कामयाब models circa 1902 ( patented 30 कूच 1909 ).
Maxim gave his device the trademarked name Maxim Silencer.
The मफलर लिये internal combustion engines was developed in parallel साथ the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century, using many of the वही techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries ऑटोमोबाइल mufflers हैं still called silencers ).
The शब्द silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread उपयोग, although it has since गिरे out of favor with some, especially among the firearms उद्योग, being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor, because a `` sound suppressor '' does नहीं `` silence '' any weapon, rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the सोनिक pressure of a firearm discharging.
Common usage and U.S. विधान भाषा favor the historically earlier term, silencer.
In U.S. law, the terms `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous.
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United राज्य दफ्तर of Strategic Services, who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM.22 Long Rifle pistol during World War ii.
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the श्वेत House.
According to oss research chief Stanley Lovell, Donovan ( an old और trusted friend of the अध्यक्ष ) was waved into the Oval Office, जहाँ Roosevelt was dictating a letter.
While Roosevelt finished उसके message, Donovan turned his back और fired ten shots into a sandbag he had brought with उसे, announced what he had किया and handed the smoking गन to the astonished president.
The British SOE ( Special Operations कार्यपालिका ) welrod assassination पिस्टल with an integral suppressor was भी used by the American oss on clandestine परिचालन in नाजी occupied Europe दौरान the Second संसार War.
beatrice `` Bea '' आर्थर ( May 13, 1922 – April 25, 2009 ) थी an American actress, comedienne, and singer whose career spanned seven decades.
Arthur achieved fame as the अक्षर Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family और Maude, and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The सुनहरी लड़कियों, winning Emmy Awards लिये both roles.
A stage actress both before and बाद her television success, she won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for उसके performance as वीरा चार्ल्स in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the tekken video game series, produced by Digital frontier and distributed by Asmik इक्का entertainment in association with बंदाई Entertainment.
The film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on July 26, 2011, and in Australia on July 27, 2011 in a खास exclusive one-off screening.
it थी released on September 3, 2011 in Japan.
The फिल्मी was released on Blu-ray Disc on नवम्बर 22, 2011 for यूएसए, and December 1, 2011 for जापानी.
This film was also released on DVD on November 22, 2011 ( 2D Version only ).
the film was additionally included with the PlayStation 3 game, Tekken Hybrid, और the निन्टेंडो 3DS title, tekken 3d : Prime Edition.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups, see neighborhood association.
In the United States, a homeowner association is a निगम formed by a रियल estate developer for the purpose of विपणन, managing, and selling of घरों and lots in a residential subdivision.
it अनुदान the developer privileged मतदान अधिकारों in governing the संघ, while allowing the developer to निकास financial and legal responsibility of the organization, typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the association to the homeowners बाद selling off a predetermined number of lots.
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it.
सबसे homeowner एसोसिएशन are incorporated, and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations.
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal, and mainly takes the form of laws जिससे are inconsistent from state to state.
Some states, ऐसे as फ्लोरिडा and California, have a large body of homeowner association law, and some states, such as Massachusetts, have virtually no homeowner association law.
The fastest growing रूप of housing in the United राज्य today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ), a category that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes, condominiums, and cooperative apartments.
Since 1964, homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the USA.
The Community Associations Institute trade association estimated that HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes और 62 million residents in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
वहीँ are अनेक breeds of Guinea pig which have महरूम विकसित since इसके domestication ca. 5000 BC.
Breeds vary widely in रूप and purpose, ranging from show breeds with long, बहती hair to those in use as model organisms by science.
इससे ca. 1200 ad to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532, चयनात्मक प्रजनन by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of घरेलू Guinea pigs, which form the basis for some of the आधुनिक domestic breeds.
Early andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food, and efforts at improving the Guinea सुअर as a food source continue to the modern era.
With the export of गिनी pigs to Europe in the 15th century, the लक्ष्य in breeding shifted to focus on the विकास of appealing pets.
To this समाप्त, various competitive breeding organizations were संस्थापित by fanciers.
The American Cavy Breeders Association, an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders Association, is the governing body in the United States and Canada.
The British Cavy Council governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( Australian नेशनल Cavy Council ) और नई Zealand ( New Zealand cavy Club ).
Each club publishes its own Standard of पूर्णता और determines which breeds are योग्य for showing.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
Though there are many breeds of गिनी सुअर, only a few breeds are commonly found on the show table as pets.
सबसे Guinea pigs found as pets यहूद either found undesirable by breeders or यहूद bred to be pleasant पालतु regardless of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection.
the short hair, Abyssinian, Peruvian और Sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds हैं those सबसे frequently seen as pets, and the former three are the कोर breeds in the history of the competitive showing of गिनी pigs.
In जोड to their standard form, nearly all breeds come in a Satin variant.
Satins, due to their hollow hair shafts, possess coats of a special gloss और shine.
However, there is growing evidence कि the genes responsible for the Satin coat also can cause severe bone problems, including Osteodystrophy and पेजेट 's disease.
Showing साटन variations is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' एसोसिएशन because of एनिमल welfare reasons.
सब cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the head profile should be rounded, साथ large eyes and large, smooth कानों.
The देह should be strong and of compact निर्माण.
Coat colour चाहिए in all variations be clearly defined and thorough from root to tip.
These मानकों are best met by long established, commonly bred breeds, as their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively नस्ल लिये these qualities.
The coat रंग आदर्श of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the चिकना coated breeds, जिससे have had खूब established, separate breeding lines for अलग colours.
राज्य schools ( also known as public स्कूलों or government schools ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for, in whole or in part, by taxation.
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary education funded, in whole or in part, और overseen by government.
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose अनुक्रम is controlled by the अनुक्रम of messenger RNA molecules.
इस is required by all living कोशिकाएं और associated वाइरस.
the राइबोसोम ( from ribonucleic acid and the Greek soma, meaning `` देह '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the प्राथमिक साईट of biological प्रोटीन synthesis ( अनुवाद ).
Ribosomes link amino acids साथ in the order specified by messenger rna ( mRNA ) अणुओं.
ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA, जबकि the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide कड़ी.
Each subunit is composed of एक or more ribosomal RNA ( rrna ) molecules and a variety of proteins.
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many टाइम्स into messenger RNA ( mRNA ) chains of a similar sequence.
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and उपयोग it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein.
Amino acids are चयनित, collected and carried to the ribosome by ट्रांसफ़र RNA ( tRNA molecules ), which डालें एक भाग of the राइबोसोम and bind to the मेसेंजर RNA chain.
The attached अमीनो acids are then linked together by another part of the ribosome.
Once the protein is produced, it can तब 'fold ' to produce a specific functional three-dimensional ढांचा.
A ribosome is made इससे complexes of RNAs and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein.
Each ribosome is विभाजित into two subunits : the छोटी subunit binds to the mRNA pattern, while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA और the amino acids.
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule, these दो subunits split apart.
Ribosomes हैं ribozymes, because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links amino acids साथ is performed by the ribosomal rna.
Ribosomes from bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes ( the तीन domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size, sequence, structure, और the ratio of protein to rna.
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to मार जीवाणु by inhibiting their ribosomes, while leaving human ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria and archaea, more than एक राइबोसोम may move साथ a single mRNA chain at one time, each `` reading '' its sequence और producing a corresponding protein molecule.
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many सुविधाएँ of those in bacteria, reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria.
Albert Claude, Christian de duve, and George Emil Palade यहूद jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or आयुर्विज्ञान, in 1974, for the discovery of the ribosomes.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to venkatraman रामकृष्णन, थामस A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the विस्तृत structure and mechanism of the ribosome.
The simplified internal structure of a chloroplast
अवलोकन of the Calvin cycle and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are रासायनिक reactions that convert carbon dioxide और अन्य compounds into glucose.
These प्रतिक्रियाएँ occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast बाहर of the thylakoid झिल्लियों.
ये reactions take the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical processes on उन्हें.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the calvin cycle : कार्बन fixation, कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ, और ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this process occurs only when light is available.
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by रात्रि.
वे, instead, release sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves.
This प्रक्रम happens when लाइट is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, C4 carbon fixation, and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM पौधे store malic acid in their vacuoles प्रत्येक night and रिलीज it by day in order to make this process work.
In गणित, a square क्रमांक or perfect square is an integer कि is the square of an integer ; in other words, it is the product of कुछ integer with itself.
For example, 9 is a square number, since it can be written as.
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number is not the product, but the समतुल्य exponentiation, usually pronounced as `` squared ''.
The नाम square number comes from the name of the shape ; देखिए below.
वर्गाकार numbers are non-negative.
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) number is a square number, is that its square जड़ें are again integers.
लिये example, = ±3, so 9 is a square number.
A positive integer that रै no perfect square divisors मगर 1 is पुकारा square-free.
For a non-negative integer, the th square number is, साथ being the zeroth square.
the अवधारणा of square can be extended to some other क्रमांक systems.
If rational numbers are included, then a square is the अनुपात of two square integers, and, conversely, the अनुपात of two square integers is a वर्गाकार ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
starting साथ 1, वहीँ are square numbers up to और सहित, where the अभिव्यक्ति represents the मंजिल of the number.
The era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United States that reflected a sense of नेशनल purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the napoleonic Wars.
the era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party और an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System.
President जेम्स Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations, with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics.
The period is so closely संबद्ध with Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) and his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American राजनीती with the end of the Federalist Party as America began to develop after the युद्ध of 1812.
While अमेरिका was experiencing growth और prosperity बाद the war with Britain, this era also marks the first instance of economic परेशानियों in the growing United States.
Mirroring the American System प्रस्तावित by हेनरी Clay, protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second बैंको of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis.
While the पद “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with irony because of the political turmoil, economic factors caused animosity between the North and दक्षिण.
the नामांकन of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the history of the era was one in जिससे the राजनैतिक माहौल was strained and divisive, especially among factions भीतर the Monroe administration and the Republican Party.
The phrase “Era of शुभ Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell, in the Boston Federalist newspaper, Columbian centinel, on जुलाई 12, 1817, following Monroe 's visit to Boston, Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America.
Mariel मार्गरेट `` मिया '' hamm ( born कूच 17, 1972 ) is a retired American professional सॉकर player.
Hamm played अनेक years as a forward for the United States women 's national सॉकर team और was a founding member of the Washington Freedom.
Hamm scored 158 international goals, more than any other player, male or female, in the इतिहास of soccer and is the तीसरा most capped मादा player in soccer history behind kristine लिली and Christie Rampone, appearing in 275 international मिलान.
Hamm was नामित the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first दो टाइम्स that award थी given ( in 2001 and 2002 ), and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best जीना players ( as chosen by Pelé ).
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and टेक्सास Sports Hall of Fame.
She is the author of go For the Goal : A चैंपियन 's Guide to Winning in सॉकर and Life and appeared in the HBO वृत्तचित्र Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team.
Washington Post columnist माइकल wilbon called Hamm, `` Perhaps the most महत्वपूर्ण athlete of the last 15 years. ''
hamm takes a corner kick.
The New York Red Bulls is an अमरीकी professional soccer team based in Harrison, New Jersey, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The टोली competes in the Eastern सम्मेलन of Major League Soccer ( MLS ).
it is एक of the टेन charter clubs of MLS, having competed in the league since its inception.
The team was a founding सदस्य of MLS ( 1996 ), but has gone through several name changes.
The team was originally ज्ञात as the New York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997.
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season, the team was known as the MetroStars.
on कूच 9, 2006, the टोली was sold to रेड Bull GmbH, leading to the team 's current name.
वे are the only original mls franchise not to have won any significant ट्रॉफी ( including नियमित season, playoffs, and नॉकआउट competition ) चूंकि inception.
the team 's best result in the mls was the MLS Cup final in 2008.
In the US खोलें Cup, the MetroStars पहुँचे three semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), before reaching their पहला final in 2003, losing 1–0 to the शिकागो Fire.
On August 26, 2000, the Metros ' Clint Mathis नियत an mls रिकार्ड by scoring five goals in a खेल against the Dallas Burn.
Some well-known खिलाड़ी that have played for the team include Giovanni savarese, Tim Howard, Tony Meola, Tab Ramos, Alexi Lalas, Clint Mathis, Jozy altidore, माइकल Bradley, Claudio Reyna, Eddie Pope, Roberto donadoni, Lothar Matthäus, Adolfo Valencia, youri Djorkaeff, amado Guevara, Juan Pablo Ángel, Thierry Henry, Juninho pernambucano, Jan Gunnar solli, Rafael Márquez, and Tim Cahill.
The team has also had well-known coaches, including Carlos Queiroz, Carlos Alberto Parreira, बोरा milutinović, Bob Bradley, Mo Johnston, ब्रूस एरिना and Hans Backe.
confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism are one, a पेंटिंग in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a नदी stream, 12th century, Song Dynasty.
estimating the क्रमांक of Buddhists in the संसार, or in अनेक countries, is मुश्किल due to definitional issues as खूब as व्यावहारिक problems of enumeration.
To begin with, the धार्मिक beliefs, practices, and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the संसार 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism, the Chinese folk religion, daoism, Shinto, और Korean shamanism.
सबसे followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations, or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge, making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners.
An additional challenge is the hostility of अनेक national governments ( often Communist ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically.
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence, resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries.
Estimate of the विश्वव्यापी Buddhist population range from 350 million to over one अरब, but cluster nearer to the first figure.
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million.
By major branches, the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism, including ईस्ट Asian Buddhism, with no fewer than 185 लाख adherents, and संभवतः several टाइम्स that many ( again, depending on definitional issues ).
इस is the predominant रूप of Buddhism practiced in China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, and Vietnam.
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism, with no fewer than 125 million adherents.
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in कंबोडिया, Thailand, Laos, Sri Lanka, and Burma.
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism, with लगभग 20 million adherents.
This रूप predominates in the वृहद Tibetan and Mongolian regions, as well as in the Himalayas.
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia और Bhutan, and various territories within what is अभी western China, Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g. Kalmykia, बुर्यातिया ), India ( e.g. Ladakh, Sikkim ), and Nepal ( e.g. Khumbu ).
Vajrayana, also known as Tibetan buddhism, is often conflated with तांत्रिक Buddhism, but this is imprecise, as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice तन्त्र.
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, बर्मा, Bhutan, और Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
Depending on how one calculates चाइनीज and other East Asian adherents, this figure might expand to include several more countries.
In addition, Buddhism is the राज्य धर्म of कंबोडिया and Bhutan, and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and श्री Lanka.
in northern India and नेपाल, the जमीन जहाँ Buddhism was born, the धर्म severely declined during the first millennium.
whether इस decline was due to the इस्लामी conquest of northern India, or to other कारकों, remains विवादास्पद.
See the आलेख मनाही of Buddhism in India.
जेम्स Butler hickok ( May 27, 1837 – अगस्त 2, 1876 ), better known as Wild Bill Hickok, थी a लोक hero of the American Old West.
His skills as a gunfighter और scout, along with उसके reputation as a lawman, provided the basis लिये his fame, although some of his reported कारनामे हैं fictionalized.
Born and उठाया on a farm in rural इलिनोइस, Hickok went वेस्ट at age 18 as a fugitive इससे justice, first working as a stagecoach driver, before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of कान्सास और Nebraska.
He fought लिये the Union Army during the American Civil War, and gained publicity बाद the war as a स्काउट, marksman, actor, and professional जुआरी.
Between his law-enforcement duties and जुए, which easily overlapped, Hickok थी involved in several notable shootouts.
He थी shot and killed जबकि playing पोकर in the Nuttal & Mann 's सैलून in deadwood, Dakota Territory ( अभी दक्षिण डकोटा ).
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars.
the rover landed on मंगल in अगस्त 2012.
A Mars rover is an स्वचालित motor vehicle which propels itself across the surface of the planet Mars after landing.
रोवर्स have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory, they can be directed to interesting features, वे can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very रिमोट रोबोटिक vehicle control.
There have been four कामयाब robotically operated Mars rovers.
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory managed the Mars Pathfinder मिशन and its now inactive Sojourner rover.
It currently manages the Mars खोजी Rover मिशन 's active Opportunity रोवर and निष्क्रिय Spirit, and, as part of the मंगल Science Laboratory mission, the Curiosity रोवर.
A financial audit, or more accurately, an audit of financial statements, is the सत्यापन of the वित्तीय statements of a legal entity, with a दृश्य to express an audit राय.
the ऑडिट राय is intended to provide reasonable assurance, but not absolute परख, कि the financial statements are प्रस्तुत fairly, in all material respects, and/or दे a true and fair view in accordance साथ the financial reporting फ्रेमवर्क.
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements, which increases the मान and विश्वसनीयता of the financial statements produced by management, thus बढ़ाएँ user confidence in the financial statement, reduce निवेशकों risk and नतीजतन reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements.
वित्तीय audits हैं typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in वित्तीय reporting.
The वित्तीय audit is one of many assurance functions provided by accounting firms.
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors, who do नहीं attest to वित्तीय reports but focus mainly on the internal नियंत्रण of the organization.
External auditors may choose to place limited reliance on the work of internal auditors.
Auditing promotes transparency और accuracy in the financial disclosures बना by an organization, therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the International मानकों on auditing ( ISA ) issued by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय auditing and Assurance Standards फलक ( iaasb ) is considered as the benchmark लिये audit process.
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local variation of the isa.
Dollar coins have been minted in the United States in gold, चांदी, and base metal संस्करण.
The term silver dollar is प्रायः used for any विशाल white metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar, although purists जिद that a डालर is not silver unless it contains some of that मेटल.
Silver dollars, the first dollar सिक्का issue, यहूद minted beginning in 1794.
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars have भी महरूम produced by the United राज्य.
The sacagawea and Presidential dollars are often referred to as `` सुनहरी dollars ''.
In modern times, dollar coins have not been very popular in the United राज्य.
Despite efforts by the सरकारी to promote उनके use, सबसे अमेरिकी currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins.
In straight and level flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ).
in a banked turn of 60°, lift equals double the वज़न ( L=2W ).
the pilot experiences 2g और a doubled weight.
The steeper the bank, the greater the g-forces.
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g.
g-force ( with g from गुरुत्वाकर्षक ) is a term लिये accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers.
It is not a force, per se, but a force per unit mass.
Since such a force is perceived as a weight, any g-force can be described as a `` वज़न per ईकाई mass '' ( देखिए the पर्याय specific वज़न ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass, and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall.
This acceleration अनुभवी by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces एक्टिंग on an object free to move.
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations, and it is only these that are measured in g-force units.
They कारण stresses and strains on objects.
Because of these strains, large g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force, even though g-forces हैं expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a मानक gravity.
Thus, the standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force तभी indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces.
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground, keeping the object from going into free-fall.
The upward force इससे the मैदान ensures कि an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition, which is the path that the object would follow when गिरना freely toward the Earth 's center.
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, feel no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' शर्तें inside a freely falling elevator गिरना toward the Earth 's center ( in वैक्यूम ), or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
ये are उदाहरण of coordinate त्वरण ( a change in velocity ) without a सनसनी of weight.
the experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is उत्पादित, is synonymous with weightlessness.
in the absence of gravitational fields, or in दिशानिर्देश at सही angles to them, proper and coordinate accelerations are the same, and any coordinate acceleration must be उत्पादित by a सम्बन्धित g-force acceleration.
An example here is a rocket in फ़्री space, in which simple changes in velocity are उत्पादित by the engines, and उपज g-forces on the rocket and passengers.
An augur holding a lituus, the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on रोमन coins
The augur was a priest and official in the classical संसार, especially ancient Rome and Etruria.
His main role was to interpret the will of the देवताओं by studying the flight of birds : whether वे are flying in groups or alone, what noises they make as they fly, direction of flight and what दयालु of birds they हैं.
This was known as `` taking the auspices. ''
the रस्म और function of the augur was सेंट्रल to any प्रमुख undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters of war, कॉमर्स, और धर्म.
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city थी founded only after लेने the auspices, that everything in war and in peace, at home और abroad, was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan.
It is the second largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan.
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census.
It is भाग of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan डेट्रॉयट and is also northeast of downtown Ann arbor.
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United States, as well as in the state of Michigan.
In 2010, the क्षेत्रफल ranked as the 30th safest city in America.
हालांकि the दो cities have separate services and पता, Farmington and Farmington Hills are often thought of as the same जातियाँ.
सुविधाएँ of the community include a recently संवर शहर, boutiques, a vintage cinema, numerous restaurants, exotic car dealerships, art गैलरी, और पब्लिक पार्क including Heritage Park.
There are अनेक historical sites including the Longacre House and the राज्यपाल Warner Mansion.
दोनो cities are served by Farmington Public Schools.
Farmington Hills serves as a major business center लिये the वृहद Detroit area.
Present-day impression of a लेट Bronze Age seal
कस्बा seal ( मेट्रिक्स ) of Náchod इससे 1570
A मुहर is a device लिये बनाना an impression in मोम, मिट्टी, paper, or कुछ other medium, including an embossment on paper, और is भी the impression thus made.
the original purpose was to authenticate a दस्तावेज़, a wrapper for one such as a modern envelope, or the cover of a container or पैकेज holding valuables or अन्य objects.
the sealing process is essentially that of a mould, with the फाइनल image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making यंत्र is also referred to as the seal मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or, more rarely, the sealing ).
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the ऊँची भाग of the matrix टच, the seal is known as a dry seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used, usually in another रंग than the paper.
For legal purposes, the परिभाषा of a seal may be extended to शामिल rubber stamps, or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S. `` ).
In the United States, the word `` मुहर '' is sometimes आबंटित to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ), which may be प्रयुक्त in a variety of contexts including architectural जमावट, on ध्वज, or on आधिकारिक letterheads.
Thus, for example, the Great Seal of the United States, among other uses, appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the U.S. राज्य appear on their respective state flags.
In Europe, although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as खूब as on seals, the मुहर design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics.
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : grundsaudaag, Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2.
according to folklore, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges इससे its burrow on this day, then spring will come early ; if it is sunny, the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow, and the शीत मौसम will continue for छह more weeks.
आधुनिक कस्टम of the holiday involve celebrations जहाँ early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging from its burrow.
In southeastern Pennsylvania, Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge, social events in which food is served, speeches are made, and एक or अधिक g'spiel ( plays or skits ) हैं performed for entertainment.
the Pennsylvania जर्मनी dialect is the only भाषा spoken at the event, और those who speak अंग्रेज़ी pay a penalty, usually in the रूप of a nickel, dime, or quarter प्रति word बोला, साथ the money put into a bowl in the center of the तालिका.
the largest groundhog Day जश्न is held in Punxsutawney, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Groundhog Day, already a widely recognized and popular tradition, received widespread ध्यान as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day, जिससे was set in Punxsutawney, PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock, il ) and portrayed punxsutawney Phil.
High resolution image of Tampa Bay प्रदेश
The Tampa Bay area has a आर्द्र subtropical climate ( Koppen cfa ), with warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier सर्दियों with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years.
The area experiences a significant summer wet season, as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in the महीने of June through September.
The क्षेत्रफल is सूचीबद्ध by the United States Department of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) as होने in hardiness zone 10, which is about the northern limit of where नारियल palms और royal palms can be grown.
Highs usually range between 65 and 95 °f ( 18 and 35 °C ) year round.
Though ज्ञात for hot summers, Tampa 's official high has never reached 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the नगर 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ).
St. Petersburg 's all-time record high is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °c ).
Pinellas काउंटी lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico, and much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting आउट into Tampa Bay.
इस proximity to large लाशें of water both moderates temperatures and introduces विशाल amounts of आर्द्रता into the atmosphere.
in general, the local communities farthest इससे the coast have larger तापमान ranges, both दौरान a सिंगल day and throughout the seasons of the साल.
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum, showing various properties across the range of frequencies और wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible बारंबारता of electromagnetic radiation.
The `` इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम '' of an object रै a different meaning, and is बजाय the characteristic वितरण of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from नीचे the low बारंबारता प्रयुक्त for modern radio संचार to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths from हज़ारों of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an अणु.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is विचार that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length, हालांकि in principle the spectrum is infinite और निरन्तर.
Most भाग of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum are used in science लिये spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as ways to study और characterize matter.
in जोड, radiation इससे विभिन्न भाग of the spectrum रै found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ).
लेजेंड
Franklin delano रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; January 30, 1882 – अप्रैल 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central फिगर in world events during the mid-20th सदी, leading the United States दौरान a time of विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New सौदे Coalition कि realigned अमरीकी politics बाद 1932, as his domestic policies defined अमरीकी liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
साथ the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme, FDR defeated incumbent Republican हर्बर्ट Hoover in नवम्बर 1932, at the गहराई of the ग्रेट Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over पोलियो, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद and सक्रियता contributed to a renewal of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime मंत्री Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the allies विरूद्ध Germany and Japan in World War II, और restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation और issued a profusion of executive आदेश that instituted the नई सौदे —a किस्में of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ), रिकवरी ( economic growth ), and सुधार ( through विनियमन of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, लकिन then relapsed into a deep recession.
the bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his पैकिंग the Supreme अदालत or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief कार्यक्रम when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on कारोबार were ended about 1975–85, except for the regulation of वॉल Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which still exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs include the संघीय Deposit Insurance Corporation, which was created in 1933, and Social Security, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese invasion of China और the aggression of Nazi Germany, fdr gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great ब्रिटेन, while remaining officially neutral.
His लक्ष्य was to मेक अमेरिका the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which होता सप्लाई munitions to the allies.
in March 1941, Roosevelt, साथ Congressional approval, provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany साथ ब्रिटेन.
With बहुत strong नेशनल support, he बना युद्ध on Japan और Germany after the Japanese attack on पर्ल हार्बर on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` date which will live in infamy ``.
he supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied युद्ध प्रयत्न.
As an active सैन्य leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis शक्तियां and the development of the world 's first अणु bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new हाइट्स as millions of लोगों moved to new jobs in युद्ध centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered लिये military service.
Roosevelt वर्चस्व the American political scene not तभी during the बारह सालो of उसके presidency, but भी for दशकों afterward.
he orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New सौदे Coalition united labor संघ, big city मशीने, श्वेत ethnics, African अमेरिकी and ग्रामीण white Southerners.
He भी influenced the later creation of the United Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently रेटेड by scholars as one of the top तीन U.S. Presidents, along with अब्राहम Lincoln and George वॉशिंगटन.
A liberal Democrat, रूज़वेल्ट पारिभाषित his ideological position as `` a छोटी left of center. ''
A Joint Committee is a पद in politics that is प्रयुक्त to refer to a कमेटी made up of सदस्यों of both chambers of a bicameral legislature.
In other contexts, it refers to a committee साथ members from more than एक organization.
the regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated शक्तियां of the federal सरकारी ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ amendment to the United States Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the डोमेन of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, मगर insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate कॉमर्स with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of पब्लिक order crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It थी at एक time माना to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the शर्तें of which हैं stipulated in the Nevada संशोधित Statutes.
तभी 8 counties currently contain active brothels.
सब forms of वेश्यावृति are illegal in Clark काउंटी ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), Washoe County ( which contains Reno ), Carson City, Douglas County, और Lincoln काउंटी.
the other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution, but some of ये काउंटी currently have no क्रियाशील brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal अंतर्गत Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
as with other countries, prostitution in the United States can be विभाजित into तीन broad श्रेणी : street prostitution, वेश्यालय prostitution, और escort prostitution.
The national ध्वज of the United States of America, प्रायः simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen equal आड़ा stripes of रेड ( top और नीचे ) alternating साथ white, with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine ऑफसेट आड़ा rows of six सितारों ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
the 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames लिये the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '', `` Old महिमा ``, और `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
India is a federal union of राज्य comprising twenty-eight states and seven संघ territories.
The states and territories हैं further subdivided into districts और so on.
Congressional districts for the 113th United States Congress
2010 Census change:
बदलें in apportionment of congressional districts, starting in 2013, as a result of the 2010 census.
2000 Census change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, from 2003 to 2013, as a परिणाम of the 2000 census.
This is a complete list of congressional districts for प्रतिनिधित्व in the United States House of Representatives.
The quantity ( apportionment ) और सीमाएँ ( redistricting ) of districts are determined after each census, although in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census.
This सूची includes the 435 वर्तमान and over 200 obsolete districts.
For example, since the 2000 census, Nebraska has had three जिले, but it प्रयुक्त to have as many as छह.
In the first दशक of the twenty-first century, Texas था 32 जिले, but has since added चार due to reapportionment as a परिणाम of the 2010 census.
अन्य राज्य have lost जिले since the number of congressional seats has been नियत at 435 by statute.
Also included here हैं non-voting delegations : six current and four obsolete.
The boundaries of जिले प्रायः shift साथ each redistricting.
Over time, the प्रदेश and demographics represented in a district can change substantially.
Furthermore, districts sometimes retain the same boundaries while बदलना their district numbers.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, actress, and लोकसेवक.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records भाव ( 1991 ), म्यूज़िक Box ( 1993 ), and मैरी Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey थी established as Columbia 's highest-selling अधिनियम.
daydream ( 1995 ) made म्यूज़िक history when its second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with Boyz ii Men, spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in u.S. chart history.
दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग of the एल्बम, Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident साथ the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which समय Carey had अलग from Mottola.
Carey left कोलंबिया in 2000, and signed a record-breaking $ 100 million रिकॉर्डिंग contract with Virgin रिकॉर्ड.
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a शारीरिक and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor रिसेप्शन, she was bought out of her रिकॉर्डिंग contract लिये $ 50 million, which led to a मनाही in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal साथ Island Records in 2002, and after an unsuccessful period, लौटे to the शीर्ष of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second सिंगल `` we belong साथ `` became उसके most successful single of the 2000s, and was बाद नामित `` सोंग of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ Springs International Film Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over दो दशकों, कैरी has sold more than 200 लाख records worldwide, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music पुरस्कार.
Carey थी also नामित the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of America, she is the third best-selling female artist in the संयुक्त States, साथ 63.5 million certified albums.
With the रिलीज of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States, more than any अन्य solo artist.
in 2012, कैरी was ranked second on VH1 's सूची of the `` 100 Greatest Women in म्यूज़िक ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey has won पाँच Grammy Awards, 17 World म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard म्यूज़िक Awards.
referred to as the `` songbird परम् '' by the Guinness World Records, she is famed for her five-octave vocal range, power, melismatic style and signature use of the सीटी register.
Stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology, a cloud is a visible mass of liquid droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body.
ये निलंबित particles are भी known as aerosols.
Clouds in Earth 's atmosphere हैं studied in the बादल physics branch of meteorology.
Two processes, possibly acting together, can lead to air becoming saturated ; cooling the air or adding water vapor to the एयर.
In सामान्य, precipitation will fall to the surface ; an exception is virga, which evaporates before reaching the surface.
The international cloud classification system is based on the फैक्ट clouds in their most basic forms can show free-convective upward विकास like कपासी, appear in non-convective layered sheets such as stratus, or लो the form of पतला fibrous wisps, as in the case of cirrus.
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in these मौलिक forms or to specify मध्य or high altitude ranges.
These include strato- for low clouds with limited संवहन that form mostly in uneven परतों, cumulo- for जटिल highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to भारी precipitation, alto- for middle clouds, और cirro- for high बादल ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure.
Whether or not a बादल is low, middle, or high level depends on how far above the मैदान इसके आधार forms.
Cloud प्रकार with significant लंबवत extent can form in the low or middle altitude सीमाएँ depending on the moisture content of the air.
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the लोकप्रिय अनुकूलन of Luke Howard 's cloud categorization system, which began to स्प्रेड in popularity during December 1802.
Synoptic सतह weather observations use code संख्याएँ to रिकार्ड and report the types of tropospheric cloud दृश्य at each scheduled observation time based on the height और शारीरिक appearance of the clouds.
While a majority of बादल form in Earth 's क्षोभमण्डल, there are occasions when clouds in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed.
These three main layers of the atmosphere जहाँ clouds may be seen are collectively known as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere, which together मेक up the heterosphere that marks the परिवर्तन to outer space.
Clouds have been observed on अन्य planets and moons within the Solar System, but, due to their different तापमान characteristics, they are composed of other substances such as methane, ammonia, and sulfuric acid.
Galveston काउंटी is a काउंटी located in the U.S. राज्य of Texas within the houston–sugar Land–Baytown metropolitan area.
As of the 2010 census, the population was 291,309.
Its county seat is Galveston.
League City is the largest नगर in galveston County in terms of population ; URL_http between 2000 and 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city.
Galveston County was संस्थापित in 1838.
nassau
Freeport, Bahamas
This is a list of शहरों in the Bahamas.
The following table lists the city or town name, the भौगोलिक coordinates, the जनसांख्यिकी as of the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी, an estimate of the population as of 2009, and the island नाम.
The Big Ten Conference, formerly Western Conference and बिग Nine Conference, is the oldest Division I college athletic conference in the United States.
Its twelve सदस्य institutions ( which are primarily flagship research विश्वविद्यालयों in their respective राज्य, well-regarded academically, और with relatively large student enrollment ) हैं located primarily in the मिडवेस्ट, stretching इससे Nebraska in the वेस्ट to penn State in the east.
The conference competes in the ncaa 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the Football Bowl subdivision ( FBS ), formerly known as Division I-A, the highest level of ncaa competition in that sport.
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or, in two cases, their parent university systems ) भी are members of the Committee on Institutional Cooperation, a leading educational and research consortium.
Despite the conference 's name, the Big टेन दरअसल consists of 12 schools, following the addition of The पेन्सिलवेनिया State University in 1993 and the University of nebraska–lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the conference will विस्तार to 14 members with the additions of the University of Maryland, कॉलेज पार्क and rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.
It is not to be confused with the बिग 12 Conference, which has only ten schools and represents a different प्रदेश of the देश.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt व्हिस्की made in Scotland using a pot still distillation process at a single डिस्टिलरी, with malted barley as the only अनाज संघटक.
As with any स्कॉच whisky, a single malt स्कॉच must be distilled in Scotland और matured in oak casks in Scotland for at तनिक तीन सालो ( सबसे single malts are matured longer ).
`` Malt '' indicates that the whisky is distilled इससे a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of grains can be malted ( for उदाहरण, barley, rye and wheat are all grains which can be malted ) ; however, in the case of single malt Scotch, barley is सदा the तभी grain used.
`` सिंगल '' indicates that all the malts in the bottle come from a single distillery.
Bottlings containing malt व्हिस्की from multiple distilleries are पुकारा `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of स्कॉच whisky ) on bottles of whisky that contained a mixture of both जौ और non-barley अनाज whisky, but इस is no longer the case.
Under the शब्दावली established by the SWR 2009, a `` blended malt स्कॉच whisky '' is a mixture of single malt Scotch whiskies, not a mixture of malted जौ whisky and non-barley व्हिस्की ; those हैं called `` blended Scotch whisky '', बगैर the word `` malt ''.
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' used under the prior labelling conventions.
The age statement on a bottle of single malt स्कॉच is the number of सालो the whisky spent maturing in cask.
As very few whiskies are बोतलबंद from a सिंगल cask the आयु statement reflects the age of the youngest malt in the mix.
a texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, for example, the beautiful 'northern lights ' chord..., in a बहुत दिलचस्प वितरण of pitches, produces a fused sound समर्थित by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( एरिक्सन ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to more traditional musical textures, sound mass composition `` minimizes the importance of व्यक्तिगत pitches in preference for texture, timbre, and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact. ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and spread to orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s and 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
Techniques which may create or be used with sound mass include extended techniques such as muted brass or स्ट्रिंग्स, flutter tonguing, wide vibrato, चरम ranges, and glissandos.
Composers और works include Barbara Kolb, Pauline Oliveros ' ध्वनि Patterns लिये chorus ( 1961 ), Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ), and Nancy वैन de Vate.
beecroft `` blurs individual pitches in एहसान of a सामूहिक timbre through the use of vocal and instrumental क्लस्टर, choral speech, narrator, and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
a very early उदाहरण is the खोलने of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ), where chaos is represented by a gradually cumulating orchestral क्लस्टर of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
A later example is the third movement of Ruth क्रॉफर्ड seeger 's String Quartet 1931 ( nonesuch H-71280 ) while more recently phill Niblock 's multiple drone आधारित music serves as an example.
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and Edgard Varèse प्रायः carefully scored individual इंस्ट्रूमेंटल भाग so that वे would fuse into एक ensemble timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other उदाहरण include European `` textural '' रचनाएं of the fifties and sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the पीड़ितों of हिरोशिमा ( 1959 ) and György ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers with works using this technique include Henryk Górecki, Karel Husa, Witold Lutosławski, Kazimierz Serocki, and Steven Stucky.
Sound mass techniques also appear in the music of George Crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
Students attending a lecture on linear algebra at the हेलसिंकी University of Technology
Pupils in rural Sudan, 2002
A student is a learner, or someone who attends an educational institution.
In कुछ nations, the English पद ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved for those who attend university, while a schoolchild under the आयु of eighteen is called a pupil in English ( or an equivalent in other languages ), although in the United राज्य a person enrolled in grades k–12 is often पुकारा a student.
In its widest use, student is used लिये anyone who is learning.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया is a continent comprising mainland Australia, Tasmania, New Guinea, Seram, possibly Timor, and neighbouring islands.
the continent is sometimes known in तकनीकी contexts by the names sahul, Australinea or Meganesia, to फर्क it from the Australian mainland.
It is the smallest of the सात traditional continents in the English conception.
नई जीलैंड is not part of the continent of ऑस्ट्रेलिया, but of the separate, submerged continent of Zealandia.
Zealandia and Australia are both part of the wider regions known as australasia और महासागरीय.
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow समंदर which divide it into अनेक landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres Strait between मेनलैंड Australia and नई गिनी, और Bass Strait between मेनलैंड Australia and Tasmania.
When समुद्र levels were lower during the pleistocene ice आयु, including the last glacial maximum about 18,000 BC, they यहूद कनेक्ट by शुष्क land.
During the past ten thousand years, rising sea levels overflowed the lowlands और separated the continent into आज 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the दो mountainous islands of New गिनी and Tasmania.
Geologically, a महाद्वीप extends to the किनारे of its continental shelf, so the now-separate islands are considered भाग of the continent.
Due to the spread of पशु, fungi and plants across the सिंगल Pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related biota.
Central Park is nearly twice as big as the world 's second-smallest country, मोनाको.
Historically its reservoirs were important components of the नगर 's water सप्लाई.
Environmental issues in नई यॉर्क City हैं affected by the city 's size, density, abundant public transportation infrastructure, and location at the mouth of the Hudson River.
नई York 's population घनत्व has environmental pros और ठग.
It facilitates the highest mass transit use in the United States, but also concentrates pollution.
Gasoline consumption in the city is at the रेट the नेशनल औसत was in the 1920s, और ग्रीनहाउस gas emissions are a भिन्न of the national average, at 7.1 metric tons प्रति person per year, below San Francisco, at 11.2 मीट्रिक tons, and the national average, at 24.5 metric tons.
नई York City खाते for तभी 1 % of United States greenhouse gas emissions while housing 2.7 % of its population.
In September 2012, New York थी named the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City, '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey कि रेटेड the environmental quality of 35 prominent cities in the United States.
Atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of और the most populous नगर in the U.S. state of जॉर्जिया, साथ an estimated 2011 population of 432,427.
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area, home to 5,457,831 people and the ninth largest metropolitan area in the United States.
Atlanta is the county सीट of Fulton County, and a small portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County.
अटलांटा was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad लाइनों, and the city rose from the ashes of the सिविल युद्ध to become a national center of commerce.
In the decades following the Civil Rights गति, दौरान which the city अर्जित a प्रतिष्ठा as `` too busy to hate '' for the progressive दृश्य of its नागरिकों and नेताओ, Atlanta attained international prominence.
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern संयुक्त States, via highway, railroad, and air, with hartsfield–jackson Atlanta International Airport being the संसार 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र since 1998.
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) world city, '' और, with a सकल घरेलू product of US $ 270 अरब, Atlanta’s economy बाँधने 15th among world शहरों and sixth in the nation.
Although Atlanta’s अर्थव्यवस्था is माना diverse, dominant sectors include logistics, professional and business services, media परिचालन, government administration, and उच्चतर education.
Topographically, अटलांटा is marked by rolling hills and घना tree कवरेज.
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods, initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics, has intensified in the 21st century, altering the city 's demographics, राजनीती, and culture.
A 1947 प्रचार कॉमिक किताब published by the Catechetical Guild Educational Society उठाने the specter of a Communist कब्ज़ा
McCarthyism is the अभ्यास of making accusations of disloyalty, subversion, or treason without proper regard for evidence.
it also means `` the अभ्यास of making unfair allegations or using unfair investigative तकनीकों, especially in order to restrict dissent or political criticism. ''
The पद has its origins in the period in the संयुक्त States known as the Second Red Scare, स्थायी roughly from 1950 to 1956 and characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by सोवियत agents.
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of Republican U.S. सीनेटर Joseph McCarthy of विस्कॉन्सिन, `` mccarthyism '' soon took on a broader meaning, describing the excesses of similar प्रयत्न.
The term is भी now used more generally to describe लापरवाह, unsubstantiated accusations, as well as demagogic attacks on the अक्षर or patriotism of political adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists or communist sympathizers और became the subject of aggressive investigations and questioning before government or private-industry panels, committees and agencies.
The primary targets of such suspicions were government employees, those in the entertainment industry, educators and union activists.
suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence, and the स्तर of threat posed by a person 's real or supposed leftist associations or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated.
Many people suffered loss of नियुक्ति and/or destruction of their careers ; some even suffered imprisonment.
Most of these punishments came about through विचारण verdicts later overturned, laws that would be घोषित unconstitutional, dismissals for reasons later declared illegal or actionable, or extra-legal procedures कि would come into general disrepute.
The most famous examples of McCarthyism शामिल the speeches, investigations, and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the हॉलीवुड ब्लैकलिस्ट, associated साथ hearings conducted by the हाउस un-american क्रियाएँ Committee ( huac ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the Federal ब्यूरो of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover.
McCarthyism थी a फैली social and cultural घटना that प्रभावित all levels of society and was the सोर्स of a great deal of debate and conflict in the United राज्य.
Napoleon is a fictional अक्षर और the main विपक्षी in George ऑरवेल 's एनिमल फार्म.
While he is at first a common farm सुअर, he gets rid of Snowball, another सुअर which shares the power.
He तब takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their मास्टर्स to eventually become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm, '' which he turns into a dictatorship.
वरुण logo
The NEPTUNE Canada प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s first regional-scale भाटे समंदर observatory that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and विश्वविद्यालयों around the world.
Along with its sister प्रोजेक्ट, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a अद्वितीय approach to समंदर science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out उनके research, while the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट uses a remotely operated क्रॉलर.
The Coronet थी a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s, initially the division 's highest trim line but, starting in 1955, the न्यूनतम trim line.
In the 1960s, the name was transferred to Dodge 's mid-size entry.
arm9 is an ARM वास्तुकला 32-bit RISC CPU family.
Commonwealth is a traditional English term for a political community founded for the common good.
Historically, it has sometimes been synonymous with `` republic ``.
More recently it has been used for fraternal associations of some sovereign nations.
Most notably, the Commonwealth of Nations, an association primarily of former सदस्यों of the British Empire, is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth ''.
The सितंबर 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a श्रेणी of four coordinated terrorist हमले launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington, D.C. क्षेत्रफल on September 11, 2001.
चार passenger airliners यहूद hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so वे could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and United एयरलाइंस Flight 175, were crashed into the North and South towers, respectively, of the World Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two घंटों, दोनो towers collapsed साथ debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all अन्य buildings in the WTC complex, as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures.
a third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, थी crashed into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the headquarters of the United States Department of रक्षा ), leading to a आंशिक collapse in इसके पश्चिमी side.
The fourth plane, United एयरलाइंस Flight 93, was targeted at the United राज्य Capitol in Washington, D.C., but crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after इसके passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In कुल, almost 3,000 people died in the हमले, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
Suspicion जल्दी fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin Laden, initially अस्वीकृत any involvement, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks.
al-qaeda and bin लादेन cited U.S. support of Israel, the presence of u.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions विरूद्ध Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the हमले by launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-qaeda.
Many countries strengthened उनके anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law enforcement powers.
Having evaded capture for years, bin Laden was located और killed by U.S. forces in may 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers और अन्य गुण caused serious damage to the economy of निम्नतर Manhattan and had a significant प्रभाव on वैश्विक markets.
Cleanup of the संसार Trade Center site was completed in May 2002, और the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the National September 11 मेमोरियल & Museum in नई यॉर्क, the Pentagon Memorial, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the एक World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Crater Lake National Park is a United States National Park located in southern Oregon.
Established in 1902, Crater Lake National Park is the पांचवां oldest national park in the United States and the तभी one in the राज्य of Oregon.
The park encompasses the caldera of crater Lake, a remnant of a destroyed ज्वालामुखी, Mount Mazama, and the surrounding hills and वनों.
The lake is deep at its deepest point, which makes it the deepest lake in the संयुक्त States, the second deepest in उत्तर अमेरिका and the ninth deepest in the world.
Crater Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the संसार, but this former listing excludes the approximately गहराई of subglacial Lake Vostok in Antarctica, which resides अंतर्गत nearly of ice, and the recent रपट of a अधिकतम depth for Lake O'Higgins /san Martin, located on the border of Chile and Argentina.
However, when comparing इसके average depth of to the औसत depth of other deep lakes, crater Lake becomes the deepest in the Western गोलार्ध and the third deepest in the संसार.
The impressive औसत depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago during the violent climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the cascade Range.
The caldera rim ranges in elevation from.
The संयुक्त States Geological Survey benchmarked elevation of the झील surface itself is.
This National पार्क encompasses.
Crater Lake has no streams flowing into or out of it.
All water कि enters the झील is eventually lost from वाष्पीकरण or subsurface seepage.
The lake 's water commonly रै a striking blue hue, and the lake is re-filled entirely from सीधा precipitation in the रूप of snow और बरसात.
the परम् Court of the United राज्य is the highest court in the United States.
it has ultimate ( और largely discretionary ) appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over all federal courts और over state court cases involving issues of federal law, and original jurisdiction over a small range of मामले.
the अदालत, which meets in the United राज्य Supreme Court Building in Washington, D.C., consists of a chief justice and eight associate justices who are मनोनीत by the President और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य Senate.
Once appointed, justices have जीवन tenure unless they resign, रिटायर, or are removed after impeachment.
Conroe is the सीट of Montgomery काउंटी and जलप्रपात within the metropolitan area.
it is located about north of Houston.
As of July 2011, the city population was 58,973, up from 36,811 in 2000.
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter दिन Saint movement, जिससे adherents believe contains writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American महाद्वीप from लगभग 2200 BC to AD 421.
It was पहला published in March 1830 by Joseph Smith as the Book of Mormon : An खाता Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and भी according to the book 's narrative, the किताब of Mormon was originally written in otherwise unknown characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates.
Smith claimed that the पिछला prophet to contribute to the book, a man नामित Moroni, दफ्न it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to earth in 1827 as an देवदूत, revealing the स्थान of the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and disseminate it as evidence of the restoration of मसीह 's true गिरिजाघर in the latter days.
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such as the पतन of Adam and संध्या, the nature of the Atonement, eschatology, redemption from शारीरिक and spiritual death, and the organization of the latter-day church.
The pivotal event of the book is an appearance of यीशु मसीह to the Americas shortly after उसके क़यामत.
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the Latter Day Saint गति, the denominations of which typically regard the टेक्स्ट not only as scripture but also as a historical record of God 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas.
the किताब of Mormon is divided into smaller books, titled बाद the individuals named as primary लेखक and, in most versions, विभाजित into chapters and verses.
It is written in English, very similar to the Early Modern English भाषाई style of the King James Version of the Bible, और has चूंकि been fully or partially translated into 108 भाषाएं.
An enlisted रैंक ( also ज्ञात as an enlisted grade or enlisted rate ) is, in most militaries, any rank नीचे कि of a commissioned officer or warrant officer.
The term can भी be inclusive of non-commissioned officers.
In most cases, enlisted service personnel perform jobs विशिष्ट to उनके अपना occupational specialty, as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers.
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David वेइस.
It was first recorded by लुई Armstrong and released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and वेइस were दोनो prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
the publishing for this song is controlled by Memory लेन Music Group, कार्लिन Music corp., और कीड़ा म्यूज़िक, inc.
1908 poster advertising gaumont 's sound films.
the Chronomégaphone, designed for large हॉल, employed संपीडित air to amplify the अंकित sound.
A ध्वनि film is a गति picture with synchronized ध्वनि, or sound technologically coupled to image, as opposed to a मूक film.
The पहला known public प्रदर्शनी of projected sound films took place in Paris in 1900, but decades would pass before sound गति तस्वीरें यहूद बना commercially practical.
Reliable तुल्यकालन was difficult to achieve साथ the जल्दी sound-on-disc systems, और amplification and recording विशेषता were also अपर्याप्त.
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the first commercial screening of short गति pictures using the technology, which took place in 1923.
The प्राथमिक steps in the व्यावसायीकरण of sound सिनेमा were taken in the mid- to लेट 1920s.
At first, the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '', or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length फिल्मों with recorded sound included only music and effects.
the first feature फिल्मी originally प्रस्तुत as a talkie was The Jazz Singer, released in October 1927.
A प्रमुख hit, it was made with Vitaphone, the leading brand of sound-on-disc technology.
Sound-on-film, however, होता soon become the standard लिये talking pictures.
By the early 1930s, the टॉकीज़ were a global phenomenon.
In the United States, they helped secure हॉलीवुड 's position as one of the संसार 's most powerful cultural/commercial प्रणालियों ( see Cinema of the United States ).
In Europe ( and, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers and critics, who worried कि a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema.
In Japan, जहाँ the popular film tradition integrated silent फिल्म and live गायन performance, talking pictures were slow to take root.
In इण्डिया, sound थी the transformative element कि led to the रैपिड expansion of the स्वदेश 's film industry—the most productive such industry in the world since the early 1960s.
African people are natives or निवासियों of अफ़्रीकी and लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent.
The Australian रिकॉर्डिंग Industry Association म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार ( commonly ज्ञात as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is an सालाना series of awards nights celebrating the Australian music industry, put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ).
the event has been आयोजित annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific और popular पुरस्कार ( these are what is usually होने referred to as `` the ARIA पुरस्कार '' ) as well as ठीक Arts पुरस्कार and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ), Lifetime Achievement Awards and aria Hall of Fame – held separately इससे 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011.
लिये 2010, ARIA introduced public voted awards for the first time.
जीतना, or even being मनोनीत लिये, an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist, and प्रायः increases recording बिक्री several-fold – in 2005, for example, बाद बेन Lee won three पुरस्कार, his album Awake Is the New Sleep jumped इससे no. 31 to No. 5 in the ARIA चार्ट, its highest position.
For-profit शिक्षा ( also known as the education services industry or proprietary education ) refers to educational institutions संचालित by निजी, profit -seeking businesses.
There are तीन types of for-profit schools.
One type is known as an शैक्षणिक management organization ( EMO ), and ये are primary and secondary educational institutions.
EMOs work with school districts or चार्टर schools, using public funds to finance operations.
The बहुमत of for-profit schools in the K–12 sector in America function as EMOs, and have grown in number in the mid-2000s.
the other major category of for-profit schools are post-secondary संस्थानों which operate as businesses, receiving शुल्क इससे प्रत्येक student वे enroll.
A third प्रकार of for-profit schools, which is less prevalent in the United States, हैं K–12 स्कूलों which operate as businesses.
emos फलन differently from charter schools निर्मित in order to carry out a particular teaching pedagogy ; most चार्टर schools are mission-oriented, while EMOs and other for-profit institutions हैं market-oriented.
While supporters argue that the लाभ motive encourages efficiency, this व्यवस्था has also drawn controversy and criticism.
Kevin Carey, director of the education policy program of the New अमरीकी Foundation said in a 2010 कालम in The वृत्तान्त of Higher शिक्षा that `` for-profits exist in large part to fix educational मार्केट असफलताओं left by traditional institutions, and they profit by serving students that पब्लिक and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore. ''
He भी विख्यात कि `` There 's no doubt that the worst for-profits are ruthlessly exploiting the commodified college degree.
But they did n't commodify it in the first प्लेस. ''
Amendment XXII in the National Archives
The Twenty-second Amendment of the संयुक्त States Constitution sets a term सीमा for election to the office of President of the United States.
Congress passed the amendment on March 21, 1947.
It was ratified by the आवश्यक number of states on February 27, 1951.
This is an episode मार्गदर्शिका for the anime series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
इस list encompasses प्रत्येक episode, beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on tv Asahi, followed by the title used in the English dubbed संस्करण airing in the संयुक्त States on Cartoon संजाल.
A short summary will follow, introducing the एपीसोड and referring to कुछ of the gags, but नहीं giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
All names and some of the references होगा be the ones used from the english-language version to avoid भ्रम.
Japanese names may be प्रस्तुत after the dub name in parentheses.
This article is परिचय the public पार्क in New York City.
लिये other uses, see Central Park ( बहुविकल्पी ).
सेंट्रल Park is a public पार्क at the center of Manhattan in New York City.
The park initially opened in 1857, on of city-owned land ( it is 843 acres today ).
In 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert vaux won a design competition to improve and expand the park with a plan वे entitled the Greensward Plan.
Construction began the same year, जारी during the अमरीकी Civil War, and was completed in 1873.
Central Park is the most visited urban park in the United States.
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, the park is currently managed by the सेंट्रल Park Conservancy under contract with the नगर government.
The Conservancy is a non-profit organization कि contributes 83.5 % of Central Park 's $ 37.5 million annual budget, and employs 80.7 % of the पार्क 's maintenance staff.
TracFone Wireless, Inc. is a प्रीपेड wireless service provider operating in the United States including Puerto रीको and the US Virgin आइलैंड्स और is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider, América Móvil.
As a Mobile Virtual Network ऑपरेटर ( MVNO ), TracFone Wireless holds multiple agreements with the US largest wireless telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide service including those of verizon, AT & t, स्प्रिंट, and T-Mobile.
TracFone बेतार offers its wireless products अंतर्गत multiple brands which each also offer distinctive सेवा योजनाएँ, the brands include TracFone, net10 Wireless, Straight Talk, SafeLink Wireless, Telcel América and सरल Mobile.
A grab dredge
Dredging is an excavation कार्यकलाप or operation usually carried आउट at least partly underwater, in उथले seas or fresh water क्षेत्रों with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments और disposing of them at a different स्थान.
This technique is often used to रखना waterways navigable.
It is also used as a रास्ता to replenish sand on कुछ public beaches, where sand has महरूम lost क्युकी of coastal erosion.
Dredging is also used as a technique for फ़िशिंग for certain species of edible क्लेम and crabs, see fishing dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the सामान्य usage in the Americas ) is कोई device, machine, or पोत that is used to excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of water.
For example, a scoop attached to the end of a rope or ध्रुव by which a man can draw sediments up इससे the bottom of a pond is a dredger.
Developing this idea further, a motorized crane equipped with a drag बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) कि is प्रयुक्त to स्कूप material from the bottom of a body of जल is also a dredger.
The crane could be located on the बैंको, or perhaps mounted on a barge.
If the crane is आरोहित on a barge, the entire vessel is referred to as a dredger.
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ), which are carried away इससे the dredged क्षेत्रफल.
Dredging can उपज materials for land reclamation or other purposes ( usually construction-related ), and रै also historically played a significant role in gold खनन.
Dredging can create disturbance in aquatic ecosystems, often with adverse impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the International Space स्टेशन, may 2006.
Ash plumes पहुँचे a ऊँचाई of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, फिलीपीन in 1991.
A ज्वालामुखी is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or क्रस्ट, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash and gases to escape इससे the magma chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally found जहाँ tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the mid-atlantic Ridge, रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific रिंग of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by अभिसारी tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are प्रायः नहीं created where two tectonic plates slide past one another.
ज्वालामुखी can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of plates, e.g., in the East African Rift, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic फ़ील्ड और the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
This type of volcanism जलप्रपात under the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has also been समझाया as mantle plumes.
ये so-called `` hotspots ``, for example हवाई, are postulated to arise इससे upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km गहन in the धरती.
Erupting volcanoes can pose many hazards, not only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the high operating तापमान.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as राख and droplets of sulfuric एसिड obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's निम्नतर atmosphere or troposphere ; however, they also absorb ऊष्मा radiated up from the धरती, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic famines.
Benedict अर्नाल्ड ( June 14, 1801 ) थी a general during the American Revolutionary युद्ध जो originally fought for the American Continental फौज but defected to the British Army.
While a सामान्य on the American side, he प्राप्त command of the फोर्ट at West Point, New York, and planned to surrender it to the अंग्रेजों forces.
बाद the plan was exposed in September 1780, he थी commissioned into the British Army as a brigadier general.
Born in Connecticut, Arnold was a merchant operating जहाजों on the अटलांटिक Ocean जब the war broke out in 1775.
बाद joining the growing army outside Boston, he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and bravery.
His क्रियाएँ included the Capture of फोर्ट Ticonderoga in 1775, defensive and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776, the Battle of ridgefield, Connecticut ( बाद which he was promoted to major general ), operations in relief of the Siege of Fort Stanwix, and key actions during the pivotal लड़ाइयों of साराटोगा in 1777, in which he suffered लेग चोटों that ended his combat career for अनेक years.
Despite Arnold 's successes, he थी passed over for प्रमोशन by the Continental Congress जबकि अन्य officers claimed credit for some of his accomplishments.
Adversaries in military और political circles brought charges of भ्रष्टाचार or अन्य malfeasance, but सबसे often he was acquitted in formal inquiries.
Congress investigated his accounts and found he was indebted to Congress after spending much of his own धन on the war प्रयत्न.
Frustrated और bitter, Arnold decided to बदलें sides in 1779, और opened रहस्य negotiations with the British.
In July 1780, he was offered, continued to pursue and थी awarded command of West पाइंट.
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the fort to the British was exposed when American forces captured British Major John André carrying papers that revealed the plot.
Upon learning of André 's capture, Arnold fled down the Hudson River to the British sloop-of-war Vulture, narrowly avoiding capture by the forces of जार्ज Washington, who had been alerted to the प्लाट.
Arnold received a commission as a brigadier सामान्य in the British Army, an सालाना pension of £360, and a lump sum of over £6,000.
He led British forces on raids in Virginia, and against New लंदन and Groton, Connecticut, before the war effectively ended with the American victory at yorktown.
In the winter of 1782, Arnold moved to London with his second wife, Margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen अर्नाल्ड.
He was खूब प्राप्त by किंग George III और the Tories but frowned upon by the Whigs.
In 1787, he returned to the merchant business साथ his बेटे Richard and हेनरी in संत John, नई Brunswick.
He returned to London to settle permanently in 1791, where he died ten years later.
Because of the way he बदला sides, उसके नाम quickly became a in the United राज्य for देशद्रोह or betrayal.
उसके conflicting legacy is recalled in the अस्पष्ट nature of some of the memorials that have been placed in his honor.
Curtis montague Schilling ( born November 14, 1966 ) is a former American Major लीग Baseball right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer.
He helped lead the Philadelphia Phillies to the World Series in और जीती World Series championships in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the बोस्टन Red Sox.
Schilling retired साथ a career postseason रिकार्ड of 11–2.
His.846 postseason winning percentage is a major-league record among pitchers with at least 10 decisions.
After retiring, he founded Green Monster खेल which was renamed 38 Studios.
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012, but just three महीने later, schilling laid off उसके entire स्टाफ amid कठोर financial troubles that resulted in the कम्पनी missing payroll the previous week.
Star Wars is an American एपिक space opera franchise केन्द्रित on a फिल्मी series created by George लुकास.
The फिल्मी series has spawned a media मताधिकार outside the film series पुकारा the Expanded Universe including किताबे, television श्रेणी, कंप्यूटर और video खेल, and comic books.
These supplements to the film trilogies have resulted in significant development of the श्रेणी ' fictional universe.
These media kept the franchise active in the interim between the film trilogies.
the franchise portrays a galaxy that is described as far, दूर away in the दूर past.
It commonly portrays Jedi as a representation of good, in conflict साथ the Sith, their evil counterpart.
उनके weapon of choice, the lightsaber, is commonly recognized in popular culture.
The fictional universe भी contains अनेक themes, especially influences of philosophy and religion.
the पहला film in the series थी originally released on May 25, 1977, under the title Star Wars, by 20th Century Fox, और became a worldwide pop संस्कृति phenomenon, followed by two सिक्वेल, released at three-year intervals.
Sixteen years बाद the रिलीज of the त्रयी 's final फिल्मी, the first in a new prequel त्रयी of films was released.
The three प्रीक्वेल films were also released at three-year intervals, साथ the final film of the त्रयी released on May 19, 2005.
In October 2012, the Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced that it होता उपज three new films, with the first फिल्मी, Star Wars Episode VII, planned for release in 2015.
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies, owning permanent rights for the original film Episode IV : A New आशा, जबकि holding the rights to Episodes I–III, V and vi until May 2020.
Reactions to the original त्रयी were mostly positive, with the पिछला फिल्मी being माना the weakest, while the प्रीक्वेल trilogy received a more mixed reaction, with most of the praise being for the final movie, according to most review aggregator websites.
All six of the main films in the series were also मनोनीत for or won Academy Awards.
All of the main films have been box office सफलताओं, with the overall box office revenue generated by the Star Wars films ( including the theatrical Star Wars : The Clone Wars ) totalling $ 4.49 billion, making it the third-highest-grossing फिल्मी श्रेणी.
the success has also led to multiple re-releases in theaters for the series.
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, though these names are rarely प्रयुक्त ) is the process of collecting thrombocytes, more commonly called platelets, a घटक of blood involved in blood clotting.
The पद specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets, which is performed by a device प्रयुक्त in रक्त donation कि separates the प्लेटलेट्स and रिटर्न other portions of the blood to the दाता.
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating गंभीर complications from bleeding and hemorrhage in patients who have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet गिनती ) or platelet dysfunction.
This process may भी be used therapeutically to treat विकार resulting in extraordinarily high platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis.
In कंप्यूटर नेटवर्किंग, a port is an application-specific or process-specific software construct serving as a communications endpoint in a computer 's host ऑपरेटिंग system.
a port is संबद्ध साथ an IP address of the host, as well as the type of protocol प्रयुक्त लिये communication.
the purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a single computer and thereby enable them to share a सिंगल physical कनेक्शन to a packet-switched network like the Internet.
the प्रोटोकॉल कि primarily उपयोग ports are the Transport परत protocols, such as the Transmission Control Protocol ( टीसीपी ) और the उपयोक्ता Datagram Protocol ( यूडीपी ) of the Internet Protocol Suite.
A port is identified for प्रत्येक address and प्रोटोकॉल by a 16-bit number, commonly known as the port क्रमांक.
The port number, added to a computer 's IP पता, completes the destination address for a communications session.
That is, आंकड़ा packets are routed across the network to a specific गंतव्य IP address, and तब, upon reaching the destination computer, हैं further routed to the विशिष्ट process bound to the गंतव्य port number.
Note that it is the combination of ip address and port number together that must be globally unique.
Thus, different IP पता or protocols may use the same port number लिये communication ; e.g., on a given host or interface UDP and TCP may use the same port number, or on a host with two interfaces, both addresses may be associated with a port having the वही number.
of the thousands of enumerated पोर्ट, about 250 well-known पोर्ट are reserved by convention to identify specific service types on a host.
In the client-server model of application architecture, पोर्ट हैं used to provide a multiplexing service on प्रत्येक server-side port number that network clients connect to for सेवा initiation, after which communication can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers.
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving तेरह counties in northwest Arkansas, including the cities of Fort Smith, Fayetteville, Springdale, रोजर्स and Bentonville : the second, third, fourth, eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state, क्रमशः.
It was created in 2002 in a split from क्षेत्रफल code 501.
Area code 479 serves Benton, Carroll ( split with क्षेत्रफल code 870 ), क्रॉफर्ड, Franklin, Johnson, लोगन, मैडिसन, Polk, Pope, Scott, Sebastian, Washington और Yell काउंटी in Arkansas.
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal चार्जिंग document in the presence of the प्रतिवादी to inform the defendant of the आरोप against him or her.
in response to arraignment, the अभियुक्त is expected to enter a plea.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include `` guilty '', `` नहीं guilty '', and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in बार ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no contest ) and the `` Alford plea `` are allowed in some circumstances.
In England, Wales, Northern Ireland और Australia, arraignment is the first of ग्यारह stages in a criminal विचारण, and involves the clerk of the अदालत reading out the indictment.
The प्रतिवादी is asked whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty to प्रत्येक charge.
in federal courts of the United States, arraignment takes place in two stages.
The first is called the initial arraignment and must लो place within 48 hours of an व्यक्तिगत 's arrest, 72 hours if the individual was गिरफ्तार on the weekend और not समर्थ to go पहले a judge until Monday.
During this arraignment the defendant is informed of the pending legal आरोप and is सूचित of his or her सही to retain counsel.
The presiding न्यायधीश also decides at what amount, if any, to set bail.
दौरान the second arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or PIA, the प्रतिवादी is अनुमत to डालें a plea.
geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ), ज्ञात as the Father of English literature, is widely माना the greatest अंग्रेज़ी poet of the Middle आयु and थी the first poet to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
While he achieved fame during उसके lifetime as an लेखक, philosopher, कीमियागर and astronomer, composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe for his ten year-old son Lewis, Chaucer भी maintained an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat, courtier और राजनयिक.
Among his many works, which शामिल the Book of the Duchess, the हाउस of Fame, the Legend of Good Women और troilus and Criseyde, he is best known today for The Canterbury Tales.
Chaucer is a crucial figure in विकासशील the legitimacy of the देशी, Middle अंग्रेज़ी, at a time when the dominant literary languages in इंग्लैण्ड were French and Latin.
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard that affected northern Illinois and उत्तरपश्चिम Indiana, U.S. on January 13 – January 14, 1979.
of हिम fell on जनवरी 13 alone, setting a नई record for snow in एक पंचांग day.
By the end of January 14, of हिम था fallen.
The ठंडा weather और snowfall throughout the rest of जनवरी and फ़रवरी resulted in frozen ट्रैक्स throughout the Chicago 'L ' प्रणाली.
commuters crowded onto CTA buses, quickly overwhelming capacity, resulting in usual bus commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours.
to avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets, the overcrowded buses were obliged to लो numerous detours, adding additional time to the commute.
deployment of plows was significantly विलम्बित and जब they finally appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall.
much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 months, causing जारी public transit देरी and significant problems with trash collection.
the city 's inadequate response to the blizzard was blamed primarily on mayor Michael bilandic, who had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley.
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane byrne, Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic primary ( who had previously worked with Bilandic in the डाले administration और been fired by Bilandic when the two could not get along ), capitalized on this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 प्राथमिक.
the 12-hour clock is a time सम्मेलन in which the 24 hours of the दिन are divided into two periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem, meaning `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem, `` after midday '' ).
प्रत्येक period consists of 12 hours गिने : 12 ( acting as zero ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour clock was विकसित over time from the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th century AD.
स्वास्थ्य spending per capita, in $ US PPP-adjusted, with the us and Canada compared amongst other पहला संसार nations.
Comparison of the health care systems in कनाडा and the संयुक्त States are often बना by सरकारी, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries था similar health परवाह systems before Canada reformed इसके system in the 1960s and 1970s.
The संयुक्त States spends much more money on health परवाह than Canada, on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita spending for health care in Canada थी US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The u.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health परवाह in that साल ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed by government, versus 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health परवाह was 23 % higher than Canadian सरकारी spending, and U.S. सरकारी expenditure on health care थी just अंतर्गत 83 % of total Canadian spending ( पब्लिक and private ) though ये statistics do n't take into खाता population मतभेद.
Studies have come to different conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending.
a 2007 पुनर्विलोकन of सब studies comparing health outcomes in कनाडा और the us in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be superior in मरीजों cared for in Canada versus the United States, लकिन differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than कि of the U.S., but वहीँ is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the स्तर of health, the वितरण of health, the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of service for individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared साथ 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with अलग racial makeup और different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare प्रणाली is superior.
The WHO 's study विधि were criticized by some analyses.
हालांकि there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant मृत्यु mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a हाल report by the congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a समूह of प्रायः hairy and very विशाल arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार of spiders, of which approximately 900 species have महरूम identified.
This article only describes सदस्यों of Theraphosidae, although कुछ other members of the same suborder हैं commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most species of tarantulas are not dangerous to humans, and कुछ species have become popular in the exotic पालतु trade.
The ton is a unit of measure.
It रै a long history and has acquired a क्रमांक of meanings और uses over the years.
It is used प्रधानतया as a unit of वज़न, और as a unit of volume.
it can also be used as a measure of energy, for truck classification, or as a colloquial term.
it is derived from the tun, the पद applied to a barrel of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 l ), which could weigh around 2,000 पाउंड ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space.
In the United Kingdom the ton is defined as ( avoirdupois pounds ).
From 1965 the uk embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric units, including the tonne ( metric ton ), a non-si metric unit defined as 1000 kg.
the UK Weights और Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use for trade अनेक units and terms, including the ton and the पद `` metric ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the United States and formerly Canada a ton is defined to be.
Where confusion is possible, the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the tonne is विशिष्ट by its spelling, but usually सुनाया the वही as ton, hence the US पद `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` metric ton '' when it is necessary to make the भेद.
Where accuracy is required the सही पद must be used, but for many purposes this is नहीं necessary : the metric and long tons differ by only 1.6 %, और the short ton is within 11 % of both.
The ton is the heaviest unit of weight referred to in colloquial speech.
The term `` ton '' is also प्रयुक्त to refer to a number of इकाई of आवाज़, ranging from in capacity.
It can भी be used as a unit of energy, expressed as an समतुल्य of coal burnt, TNT detonated, or in प्रशीतन, ice melted.
in Britain, ton is used in slang in several contexts to औसत `` 100 ''.
as a cost or a speed, a ton is widely understood to be £100 or 100 mph.
The स्टेनली Cup ( ) is the championship trophy awarded annually to the National Hockey League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the निष्कर्ष of the Stanley कप Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion हॉकी Challenge Cup, the trophy is named for Lord स्टेनली of preston, then- Governor General of Canada, जो awarded it to Canada 's top-ranking amateur बर्फ hockey club, which the संपूर्ण Stanley family समर्थित, with the sons and daughters playing और promoting the game.
The first Cup was awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the two पेशेवर ice hockey organizations, the National Hockey Association ( नह ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association ( pcha ), reached a gentlemen 's agreement in which their respective champions would फेस each other for the Stanley Cup.
After a series of league mergers and folds, the स्टेनली `` प्रस्तुतीकरण Cup '' was established as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship पुरस्कार in 1947.
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the असली bowl of the `` Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup '', the सत्यापित `` Presentation Cup '', and the `` प्रतिरूप Cup '' at the Hall of Fame.
The NHL रै कायम effective control over both the trophy itself and इसके associated trademarks.
Nevertheless, the NHL does not actually own the trophy, but instead uses it by agreement साथ the two Trustees of the Cup.
The एनएचएल has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup, although the league 's right to outright own trademarks associated with a trophy it does not own has महरूम विवादित by some legal experts.
Unlike the trophies awarded by the अन्य three major पेशेवर खेल लीग of North America, a new Stanley कप is not made प्रत्येक year ; विजेता रखना it until a new चैंपियन is crowned.
It is unusual among trophies, in that it has the names of all of the winning players, coaches, management, and club staff engraved on its chalice.
initially, a new बैंड added each year caused the trophy to grow in size, earning the nickname `` Stovepipe Cup ''.
in 1958 the modern one-piece Cup was designed with a five-band barrel which could contain 13 winning teams per band.
to avoid the Stanley Cup इससे growing, when the bottom बैंड is full, the oldest band is removed और preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame, and a new रिक्त band added to the bottom.
It रै been referred to as The Cup, रब Stanley 's Cup, the पावन Grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug.
the Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends और traditions, the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of शैम्पेन out of the cup by the winning टोली.
The original bowl was made of silver and is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 inches ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in व्यास.
The current स्टेनली Cup, topped with a copy of the original bowl, is made of a silver and nickel मिश्रधातु ; it has a height of 89.54 सेण्टीमीटर ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
Since the 1914–15 season, the Cup रै been won a combined 94 times by 18 क्रियाशील NHL teams and five defunct teams.
prior to that, the challenge cup was held by nine अलग टीमों.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times and हैं फिलहाल the last Canadian-based टोली in the NHL to win the cup after winning it in 1993.
The Stanley Cup थी not awarded in 1919 because of a Spanish flu epidemic, and in 2005, as a consequence of the एनएचएल lockout.
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple फल consisting of coalesced berries, and the most economically significant plant in the bromeliaceae family.
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown कटिंग of the fruit, संभवतः flowering in 20–24 months और fruiting in the following six months.
Pineapple करता नहीं ripen significantly post-harvest.
Pineapples हैं consumed भैस, पकाया, juiced, and preserved, and are found in a wide array of cuisines.
In addition to खपत, in the Philippines the pineapple 's पत्ते are used to produce the textile fiber piña - employed as a component of wall paper and furnishings, amongst other uses.
In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a data type which represents some finite उपसमुच्चय of the mathematical integers.
Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may not be allowed to contain negative values.
Integers are commonly represented in a computer as a समूह of binary digits.
The आकार of the grouping varies so the set of integer sizes available varies between different types of computers.
Computer hardware nearly always provides a way to represent a processor register or memory address as an integer.
The Gordon बांध in Tasmania is a large hydro सुविधा, with an installed capacity of.
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower ; the production of electrical power through the use of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक फ़ोर्स of falling or flowing जल.
it is the सबसे widely used form of renewable energy, accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010, and is expected to increase about 3.1 % each year लिये the next 25 years.
Hydropower is उत्पादित in 150 countries, with the Asia-Pacific region generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010.
चीन is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010, representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use.
There हैं अभी तीन hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 gw : the Three Gorges बांध in चीन, Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border, और Guri बांध in Venezuela.
the cost of hydroelectricity is relatively कम, making it a competitive source of renewable electricity.
The average cost of electricity from a hydro plant larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be ramped up और down very quickly to adapt to changing energy demands.
however, damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm local ecosystems, and building large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife.
Once a hydroelectric जटिल is constructed, the project produces no सीधा बर्बाद, and has a considerably lower output level of the greenhouse gas कार्बन dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants.
Wine boy at a Greek symposium
The इतिहास of wine spans हज़ारों of सालो and is closely intertwined with the history of agriculture, cuisine, civilization and humanity itself.
Archaeological प्रमाण suggests that the earliest known wine production occurred in what is now the country of Georgia around 7000 bce, साथ other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 bce and Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
The संसार 's oldest known वाइनरी ( दिनाँक to 3000 BCE ) थी discovered in Areni-1 गुफा in a mountainous area of Armenia.
URL_http.
Increasingly clear पुरातत्व evidence indicates that domestication of the grapevine took place दौरान the Early Bronze Age in the Near East, सुमेर and मिश्र इससे around the third मिलेनियम BCE.
Evidence of the earliest वाइन production in Balkans रै been uncovered at archaeological साइट in northern Greece ( Macedonia ), dated to 4500 BC.
These same sites also contain remnants of the world 's earliest evidence of crushed grapes.
In Egypt, wine became a part of recorded history, playing an important भूमिका in ancient ceremonial life.
Traces of wild वाइन डेटिंग from the second and पहला सहस्राब्दियों BCE have also been found in China.
Moroccan वाइन kasher label 1930
The Jewish tradition and use of kosher wine is dating back to biblical टाइम्स.
the long history of the use और production of wine throughout ancient Israel is backed up by archeological evidence.
Within the Jewish diaspora समुदायों सब around the globe, the traditional and religious use of kosher wine continued to this day.
वाइन, linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus, was common in ancient Greece and Rome, and many of today 's major wine-producing regions of Western Europe यहूद स्थापित साथ Phoenician and, बाद, Roman plantations.
winemaking technology improved considerably during the time of the Roman Empire : अनेक अंगूर varieties and cultivation techniques were known ; the design of the wine press उन्नत ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine.
rashi, a medieval French rabbi and called the `` father '' of all commentaries that followed on the talmud और the Tanakh, earned his living as a vintner.
following the मनाही of Rome and its industrial-scale वाइन production for export, the Christian Church in मध्यकालीन Europe also became a firm supporter of wine, necessary for celebration of the Catholic Mass. Whereas wine थी forbidden in मध्यकालीन Islamic संस्कृतियों, इसके उपयोग in Christian libation was widely tolerated.
Geber and other मुस्लिम chemists pioneered the आसवन of wine लिये इस्लामी medicinal और industrial purposes such as perfume.
Wine production gradually increased, with consumption burgeoning from the 15th century onwards.
Wine उत्पादन survived the devastating Phylloxera louse of 1887 and eventually स्प्रेड to numerous regions throughout the world.
Districts of West Bengal
The Indian state of West Bengal सीमायें with Nepal, भूटान, Bangladesh and the Indian states of Bihar, झारखण्ड, Odisha, Assam और Sikkim.
the Himalayas झूठ in the north of the राज्य and the Bay of Bengal is at the south.
In between them, the river Ganges flows eastwards and its main distributary, the Hooghly River, बहती दक्षिण to reach the खाड़ी of Bengal.
The Siliguri Corridor, which connects north-east India with बाकी of the India, lies in the North Bengal region of the state.
Geographically, वेस्ट Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— दार्जिलिंग हिमालयी hill region, terai and Doors region, North Bengal plains, Rarh region, Western plateau and high lands, coastal plains, Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta.
In 1947, when India gained independence, the state of West Bengal was formed साथ 14 districts, as per विभाजन plan of the then Bengal प्रांत of British India.
The former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a district in 1950, and the पूर्व French enclave Chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954.
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia ज़िला to the state and to enlargement of West Dinajpur district.
Later, larger districts such as West दिनाजपुर, 24 Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated.
West Bengal is now विभाजित into nineteen districts अंतर्गत three divisions.
Districts are administered by District Magistrates, and divisions are administered by डिवीजनल Commissioners.
Kolkata, the capital of the state, constitutes the Kolkata ज़िला.
Other districts are further divided into administrative units such as subdivisions and blocks, administered by SDO and BDO, respectively.
the Panchayati Raj has a three-tier structure in the राज्य.
The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat, which is the Panchayat organization लिये a collection of villages.
the block-level organizations are पुकारा Panchayat samiti, and the district-level organizations हैं named Zilla parishad.
the caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a region that consists of the Caribbean समुद्र, इसके islands ( some surrounded by the Caribbean Sea and some bordering दोनो the caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean ), and the surrounding coasts.
The region is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico and the North American mainland, east of Central America, and north of दक्षिण अमेरिका.
Situated largely on the Caribbean थाली, the region comprises more than 700 islands, आइलेट, reefs, and cays.
( See the list. )
ये islands generally form island arcs that delineate the eastern and उत्तरी किनारे of the Caribbean Sea.
The Caribbean islands, consisting of the वृहद Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south and east ( सहित the leeward Antilles ), हैं भाग of the somewhat larger West इंडीज grouping, which also includes the Lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas और Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea.
In a wider sense, the mainland countries of Belize और गुयाना – historically और culturally भाग of the British वेस्ट इंडीज – may be included.
geopolitically, the caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North America and हैं organized into 30 territories including sovereign states, overseas departments, and dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to May 31, 1962, वहीँ थी a short-lived country called the Federation of the वेस्ट Indies composed of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories, सब of जिससे were then UK dependencies.
The West Indies cricket team continues to represent many of those राष्ट्र.
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 cities in the U.S. state of नई Hampshire.
For each town/city, the table lists the county to जिससे it belongs, its date of incorporation, its population according to the 2010 census, its form of government, and its principal villages.
Cities are indicated in boldface.
Cities and कस्बों are treated identically under state law.
शहरों are just towns whose form of government was changed by a special act of the New Hampshire legislature.
However, towns currently are able to बदलें उनके form of सरकारी by simple voter approval of a new municipal charter, with several of the more populous towns having already done so.
The main slave routes in मध्यकालीन Africa.
This article discusses systems, इतिहास, and effects of slavery भीतर अफ़्रीकी.
देखिए Arab slave trade, Atlantic slave trade, Maafa, and गुलामी in contemporary अफ़्रीकी for अन्य discussions.
`` Slave transport in Africa ''.
Europeans usually did not enter the interior regions.
Slavery in अफ़्रीकी has existed throughout the continent for many सदियां, and continues in the वर्तमान day.
प्रणालियों of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the continent, as they were in much of the ancient world.
In सबसे African societies where slavery was prevalent, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
जब the Arab slave trade and अटलांटिक slave trade began, अनेक of the local slave systems बदला और began supplying captives for slave markets outside of अफ़्रीकी.
गुलामी in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms और some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan व्यापार इससे the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions, slavery was a small भाग of the आर्थिक life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( अरब and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
Brett lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी football क्वार्टरबैक जो spent the बहुमत of his career with the ग्रीन Bay Packers of the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), नई York Jets ( 2008 ) and मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL इतिहास to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position for the विश्वविद्यालयों of Southern Mississippi for four years before being चयनित in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green खाड़ी on February 10, 1992, for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the चौथी game of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 ऋतु.
He थी traded to the नई York jets and started at क्वार्टरबैक for the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He बना an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
he is the only player to जीत the AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC चैंपियनशिप Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और two Super कटोरी appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl xxxii ), जीतना one ( Super कटोरी XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most करियर pass completions, सबसे career pass कोशिशें, most करियर interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a player, most लगातार starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most बर्खास्त, and सबसे fumbles.
He is also referred to by his nickname `` The Gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global एंटरप्राइज़ software company headquartered in सैन Francisco, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
हालांकि best known for its customer relationship management ( crm ) product, Salesforce has भी expanded into the `` social enterprise arena '' through acquisitions.
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in America by Forbes magazine, as खूब as number 27 in सौभाग्य magazine 's 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2012.
as of April 2013, the कम्पनी is ranked छठे in providing services in marketing and customer service automation.
It is सूचीबद्ध on the New यॉर्क Stock Exchange और is a constituent of the S & P 500 index.
seahorse is the title given to 54 species of marine मछली in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient यूनानी hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea दानव ''.
Earth is the third planet from the Sun, and the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System.
it is also the largest of the Solar System 's four terrestrial ग्रह.
It is sometimes referred to as the संसार or the Blue Planet.
Earth formed approximately 4.54 billion years ago, और life appeared on its surface within its पहला billion years.
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions, which सक्रिय the proliferation of organisms as well as the गठन of the ozone layer, जिससे together with धरती 's magnetic फ़ील्ड blocked नुकसानदेह solar radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to मूव safely to land.
The physical properties of the Earth, as well as its geological history and orbit, have allowed life to persist.
Estimates on how much longer the planet will be able to continue to support life range from, to as long as.
Earth 's lithosphere is विभाजित into several rigid segments, or tectonic plates, that migrate across the surface over periods of many millions of years.
About 71 % of the surface is covered by salt जल महासागर, with the remainder consisting of महाद्वीपों and islands which together have many lakes और other sources of water that contribute to the hydrosphere.
Earth 's poles are mostly covered with ice that is the solid ice of the Antarctic ice sheet and the sea बर्फ that is the polar ice packs.
the planet 's interior remains active, with a solid iron भीतरी core, a liquid outer core कि generates the magnetic field, and a thick परत of relatively solid mantle.
धरती gravitationally interacts with other वस्तुएँ in space, especially the Sun and the Moon.
During one कक्षा around the सूर्य, the Earth rotates परिचय its own axis 366.26 times, creating 365.26 solar days, or one sidereal year.
the Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular of its orbital plane, producing seasonal variations on the planet 's surface with a काल of one tropical year ( 365.24 सौर days ).
The Moon is Earth 's only natural satellite.
It began orbiting the धरती about.
the Moon 's gravitational बातचीत साथ Earth stimulates ocean tides, stabilizes the axial tilt, and gradually slows the planet 's rotation.
The planet is home to लाखो of प्रजाति of जीवन, including humans.
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products of the जीवमंडल contribute resources that हैं used to support a global human population.
These निवासियों are grouped into परिचय 200 independent sovereign states, which interact through diplomacy, travel, trade, and military action.
Human संस्कृतियों have developed many views of the planet, including its personification as a planetary deity, its shape as चपटा, its position as the center of the universe, और in the modern Gaia Principle, as a single, self-regulating organism in its own right.
The Magician from the Waite-Smith टैरो, जो is depicted using the same टूल्स that modern wiccans use.
In the neopagan धर्म of Wicca, a दायरा of magical tools are used in ritual practice.
प्रत्येक of these tools has different uses and एसोसिएशन, and are प्रयुक्त primarily to direct magical energies.
They are used at an altar, inside a magic circle.
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca, the tools are often divided into personal tools, which are for उपयोग by, and स्वामित्व by, an व्यक्तिगत Wiccan, and coven tools, used collectively by the आउटटेक.
This practice may derive partly from Masonic परंपराओं ( such as the use of the वर्गाकार और Compasses ), from जिससे Wicca draws कुछ material, and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the सुनहरी भोर.
The latter बना much use of material इससे medieval grimoires such as the Key of सुलेमान, which has many illustrations of magical tools and instructions for their preparation.
ठेठ eukaryotic कोशिका.
सेल्यूलर respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then रिलीज waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration हैं catabolic reactions, which ब्रेक विशाल molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
श्वसन is एक of the key तरीके a कोशिका gains useful energy to ईंधन cellular कार्यकलाप.
Cellular respiration is considered an exothermic redox reaction.
The overall प्रतिक्रिया is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the body, most of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly does not resemble एक when it occurs in a जीना cell.
This difference is क्युकी it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction, no single reaction कि comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly प्रयुक्त by animal and plant cells in respiration शामिल sugar, amino acids and fatty acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular ऑक्सीजन ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
a stored-pressure fire extinguisher बना by Amerex
a British fire extinguisher साथ ID चिह्न, call point and fire action sign
A fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or simply an extinguisher, is an क्रियाशील fire protection device used to extinguish or control small fires, प्रायः in emergency situations.
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire, such as one which has reached the छत, endangers the user ( i.e., no escape route, धुँआ, explosion hazard, etc. ), or otherwise requires the विशेषज्ञता of a fire विभाग.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical pressure vessel containing an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United States, आग extinguishers, in सब buildings other than घरों, हैं generally required to be serviced and inspected by a Fire सुरक्षा सेवा company at least annually.
Some jurisdictions require more frequent सेवा for fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the type of service performed ( annual inspection, recharge, नई आग extinguisher ) and जब.
वहीँ हैं two प्रमुख types of fire extinguishers : stored pressure and cartridge-operated.
In भंडारित pressure units, the expellant is भंडारित in the same कक्ष as the firefighting एजेंट itself.
Depending on the agent used, different propellants are used.
With dry chemical extinguishers, nitrogen is typically used ; water and foam extinguishers typically use air.
Stored pressure आग extinguishers are the most common type.
cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a separate cartridge that is punctured prior to discharge, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
This type is not as common, used primarily in क्षेत्रों such as औद्योगिक facilities, where they receive higher-than-average use.
वे have the advantage of simple and prompt recharge, allowing an operator to निर्वहन the extinguisher, recharge it, and return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time.
नापसंद stored दबाव प्रकार, these extinguishers उपयोग compressed carbon dioxide instead of nitrogen, हालांकि नाइट्रोजन cartridges are used on कम temperature ( -60 rated ) models.
Cartridge operated extinguishers are available in dry chemical और dry powder types in the U.S. और in water, wetting agent, foam, dry रासायनिक ( वर्ग ABC और b.c. ), and dry powder ( class D ) प्रकार in the बाकी of the world.
Fire extinguishers are further विभाजित into हैंडहेल्ड and cart-mounted, also called wheeled extinguishers.
हैंडहेल्ड extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 pounds ), and are hence, easily portable by हाथ.
Cart-mounted units typically तौल 23+ kilograms ( 50+ pounds ).
These wheeled मॉडल हैं most commonly found at construction sites, airport runways, heliports, as well as docks and marinas.
Native Americans in the United States हैं the indigenous peoples in North America within the boundaries of the present-day continental United राज्य, अलास्का, और the द्वीप state of Hawaii.
They are composed of numerous, distinct Native American जनजातियों and जातीय groups, many of which survive as बरकरार political communities.
The terms used to refer to देशी Americans have been controversial.
according to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home साक्षात्कार, most of the respondents with an expressed वरीयता refer to themselves as American Indians ( or simply Indians ), and इस term has been adopted by major अखबारों और some academic groups ; however, this term does नहीं typically include Native Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives, such as Aleut, Yup'ik, or इनुइट peoples.
Since the समाप्त of the 15th century, the migration of europeans to the Americas, and their importation of Africans as slaves, has led to centuries of विरोध और adjustment between Old and New World societies.
europeans created most of the early written ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड about Native Americans बाद the colonists ' immigration to the Americas.
Many Native Americans जिया as hunter-gatherer societies and told उनके histories by oral traditions.
In many groups, women carried out sophisticated cultivation of numerous varieties of staple crops : maize, beans और squash.
the स्वदेशी cultures were quite different from those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, ज़्यादातर Christian immigrants इससे western Eurasia.
अनेक Native संस्कृतियों were matrilineal ; the people occupied lands for use of the entire जातियाँ, for hunting or कृषि.
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had विकसित concepts of व्यक्तिगत property rights with respect to land that were extremely अलग.
the मतभेद in संस्कृतियों between the established Native अमेरिकी and immigrant europeans, as well as shifting alliances among different nations of each culture through the सदियां, caused extensive political tension, ethnic violence and social disruption.
the Native Americans suffered high fatalities from the contact with infectious Eurasian रोगों, to which they had no acquired immunity.
Epidemics after European contact caused the greatest loss of life लिये indigenous populations.
Estimates of the pre-Columbian जनसांख्यिकी of what today constitutes the u.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 million to 18 million.
After the colonies revolted against ग्रेट Britain and स्थापित the United States of America, President George Washington and Henry नॉक्स conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' देशी Americans in preparation for assimilation as u.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as साथ the Choctaw, or forced ) became a consistent policy through अमरीकी administrations.
During the 19th century, the ideology of manifest destiny became अभिन्न to the American nationalist गति.
विस्तार of European-American populations to the west after the American क्रान्ति resulted in increasing pressure on Native American lands, warfare between the समूह, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act, authorizing the सरकारी to relocate Native Americans from उनके homelands within established states to lands वेस्ट of the Mississippi River, accommodating European-American expansion.
The पहला European Americans to encounter the western interior tribes were generally fur traders and trappers.
There were also जेसुइट missionaries क्रियाशील in the Northern Tier.
as United States expansion reached into the American वेस्ट, settler and miner migrants came into increasing विरोध with the Great Basin, ग्रेट Plains, and other Western जनजातियों.
These were complex nomadic संस्कृतियों आधारित on horse culture और seasonal bison शिकार.
वे carried आउट strong resistance to United States incursions in the decades after the American Civil War, in a series of Indian Wars, which यहूद बारंबार up until the 1890s, but जारी into the 20th century.
The transcontinental railroad brought more non-Natives into tribal land in the west.
Over time, the U.S. forced a श्रेणी of treaties and land cessions by the tribes, and established reservations for उन्हें in many western states.
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to अपनाना European-style farming and similar pursuits, but european-american agricultural प्रौद्योगिकी of the time was inadequate for often dry reservation lands.
In 1924, Native Americans जो were not already u.S. citizens यहूद granted citizenship by Congress.
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship with the United States क्युकी they may be members of nations, tribes, or bands साथ sovereignty and treaty rights.
Central America ( ) is the central भौगोलिक region of the Americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North अमरीकी continent, जिससे connects with South America on the southeast.
When considered part of the unified continental model, it is considered a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven देशों : Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, ग्वाटेमाला, Honduras, Nicaragua, और Panama.
Central America is part of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, which extends from उत्तरी Guatemala through central Panama.
It is bordered by Mexico to the north, the Caribbean Sea to the east, the North Pacific Ocean to the west, और Colombia to the south-east.
सेंट्रल America is an area of, or almost 0.1 % of the Earth 's सतह.
As of 2009, its जनसांख्यिकी was estimated at 41,739,000.
It रै a density of 77 people per square kilometer.
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama television series created by Bill Lawrence that aired इससे October 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on NBC and later ABC.
The series फ़ॉलो the lives of employees at the fictional Sacred Heart teaching हॉस्पिटल.
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for a low-ranking person because at the beginning of the श्रेणी, most of the main characters were medical interns.
The श्रेणी features fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, और surreal vignettes presented mostly as the daydreams of the central अक्षर, Dr. John `` j.d. ''
Dorian, जो is played by Zach Braff.
Actors starring alongside Braff in the first eight सीज़न शामिल Sarah Chalke, Donald Faison, Neil Flynn, Ken जेनकींस, John C. McGinley and जुडी Reyes.
The series has also प्रदर्शित multiple guest appearances by film actors, such as Brendan Fraser, Heather Graham, and कोलिन Farrell.
In the ninth season, many new cast members यहूद introduced and the show setting moved from a hospital to a चिकित्सा स्कूल.
आउट of the original cast, only Braff, faison and McGinley became नियमित cast सदस्यों, while the others with the exception of रेयेस, बना guest appearances.
braff appeared in छह एपीसोड of the ninth season before departing.
Kerry Bishé, Eliza कूप, Dave Franco और Michael Mosley became series regulars with Bishé बनने the show 's new narrator.
Scrubs premiered on October 2, 2001 on NBC.
The series प्राप्त a Peabody Award in 2006.
During the seventh season, NBC announced that it होता नहीं renew the show.
Shortly after the seventh season finale, ABC announced it had picked up the eighth ऋतु of the series, which began January 6, 2009.
The ninth season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
On May 14, 2010, ABC announced it had officially canceled scrubs.
an 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine, used in netherton at the ironworks of m w Grazebrook.
re-erected on the A38 ( m ) in Birmingham, UK
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as its working fluid.
Using खौलते water to produce mechanical गति goes back about 2,000 सालो, but early डिवाइस यहूद not practical.
Since the late 1700s steam engines have become a major source of mechanical power.
The first अनुप्रयोग were removing water from mines.
in 1781 James Watt patented a steam engine that produced continuous rotative motion.
ये 10 hp engines सक्रिय a wide range of निर्माण machinery to be powered.
the engines could be sited anywhere that water and कोयले or wood fuel could be प्राप्त.
by 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible.
Steam engines could also be applied to vehicles such as कर्षण engines and the रेल locomotives which are commonly just called steam engines outside America.
The stationary steam engine was a key घटक of the Industrial Revolution, allowing कारखानों to locate where जल power was unavailable.
Today steam turbines generate परिचय 90 % of the electric power in the United States using a किस्में of ऊष्मा sources.
Steam engines are external combustion engines, जहाँ the working द्रव is separate from the combustion products.
Non-combustion heat स्त्रोत such as solar शक्ति, nuclear power or geothermal energy may be used.
The ideal thermodynamic cycle used to analyze this प्रक्रम is called the Rankine cycle.
in the cycle, जल is heated into भाप in a बॉयलर जबतक it पहुँच a high pressure.
When expanded through pistons or turbines, mechanical कार्य is done.
The reduced-pressure भाप is तब condensed and pumped वापस into the बॉयलर.
In सामान्य usage, the पद steam engine can refer to either the integrated steam plants ( including boilers etc. ) such as railway भाप इंजनों and portable engines, or may refer to the piston or turbine मशीनरी alone, as in the beam engine and stationary steam इंजन.
Specialized devices such as steam hammers and steam pile drivers are dependent on steam supplied इससे a separate बॉयलर.
A mill engine from Stott Park Bobbin मिल, Cumbria, England
a steam locomotive in जर्मनी.This क्लास of engine was built in 1942 – 1950 and operated commercially until 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( संपादित version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is the third official single from rapper Ludacris ' album Word of mouf.
The single features mystikal and i-20.
The single reached # 10 on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 making it Ludacris 's first top टेन hit on the चार्ट, it भी reached # 3 on Hot Rap Tracks and # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks.
Puerto Rican reggaeton duo maicol & Manuel sampled the song on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 रिलीज yakaleo.
The song is also featured in episode 2, Series One of British टीन comedy/drama Skins.
the सोंग was भी प्रयुक्त by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Montel Vontavious Porter during his short stint in Ring of सम्मान.
It was also used for April Hunter in various Independent circuits.
It was featured in the movie ATL starring T.I., and ' Hancock, ' although in the latter, the clean version was used.
a snippet of the song is played during traffic reports on अनेक radio stations, usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
Retired NBA star and now ईएसपीएन विश्लेषक jalen Rose is प्रदर्शित in the music video.
the song has been covered by rock band Start ट्रबल, on their album Every Solution Has Its Problem.
It was प्रदर्शित on British sitcom the Inbetweeners when the characters Jay और Neil took Will on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay 's रेड Nissan Micra.
It was sampled by Girl Talk on the first track of his एल्बम सब Day, `` Oh No ''.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the Commonwealth realms, और their territories और dependencies, and सिर of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England और, in some of her realms, carries the title of Defender of the आस्था as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom, कनाडा, Australia, नई Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता and some realms became republics.
at present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint विंसेंट और the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda और Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen विक्टोरिया has reigned longer at over 63 years.
एलिज़ाबेथ was born in London and educated privately at home.
Her father acceded to the सिंहासन as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, from which time वो was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, in which वो परोसा in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
in 1947, she married Prince फिलिप, Duke of Edinburgh, साथ whom she has four children : Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.
उसके राजतिलक service took place in 1953 and थी the first to be televised.
the Queen 's many ऐतिहासिक visits and meetings include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major संवैधानिक changes in her realms, such as devolution in the United Kingdom और the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of निजी significance have included the births and विवाह of her children, the births of her grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the Prince of वेल्स, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, Golden, और Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, क्रमशः.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern आयरलैंड, the Falklands War, wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the मौत of her father at 56, the हत्या of प्रिंस Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the विश्लेषण of her children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a year deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, Diana, राजकुमारी of Wales, and the deaths of her mother और सिस्टर in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments, but support for the monarchy and उसके personal popularity remain high.
Christianity is the largest religion सूचीबद्ध by Australians in the national जनसांख्यिकी.
In the 2011 Census, 61.1 % of Australians were listed as Christian.
Australia has no official राज्य religion and the Australian संविधान protects freedom of religion.
the presence of Christianity in Australia began with the arrival of the पहला Fleet of British convicts in 1788.
the religion grew to account for 96.1 % of the national population at the time of the Federation of Australia in 1901.
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of England in Australia ) remained the largest denomination until 1986, when it was surpassed by the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among कुछ sections of the population have diversified the जनसांख्यिकी of धर्म in Australia.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011, the largest denominations were either Roman Catholic ( 25 % ) or Anglican ( 17 % ), with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated साथ the uniting Church in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
post-war immigration रै grown the numbers belonging to churches जैसे the Greek परंपरागत Archdiocese of ऑस्ट्रेलिया and there are large and growing Pentecostal groups, such as Sydney 's hillsong Church.
The festivals of Easter and Christmas are public holidays in Australia.
Around a quarter of विद्यार्थी attend गिरिजाघर schools and Christian organisations हैं leading non-government providers of health और welfare services through संगठनों like कैथोलिक स्वास्थ्य Australia, anglicare, UnitingCare ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the मोक्ष Army and St Vincent de Paul Society.
Historically significant ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Christians have included Rev Dr John Dunmore Lang, संत Mary MacKillop, कैथरीन Helen Spence, Pastor David Unaipon, the Reverend John flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls.
High प्रोफ़ाइल समकालीन Australian Christians शामिल : Tim Costello Baptist minister and current सीईओ of World दृष्टि Australia, Frank ब्रेनन, Jesuit human rights lawyer, Cardinal George Pell, Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, Phillip Aspinall the current Anglican primate and archbishop of Brisbane, Kevin Rudd, former मजदूर Prime मंत्री, and टोनी Abbott, leader for the Federal Opposition उदार Party.
Charter creating Collegiate School, which became Yale College, October 9, 1701
Yale University is a private Ivy League research university located in New Haven, Connecticut.
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of Connecticut, the university is the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States.
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate School '', the संस्था traces इसके roots to 17th-century clergymen who sought to स्थापित a college to ट्रैन clergy और political leaders for the colony.
In 1718, the College was renamed `` Yale कॉलेज '' to honor a gift इससे Elihu yale, a राज्यपाल of the British East इण्डिया Company.
In 1861, the Graduate स्कूल of Arts और Sciences became the first U.S. संस्था to award the PhD. Yale became a founding member of the Association of American Universities in 1900.
Yale College was transformed, beginning in the 1930s, through the establishment of residential colleges : 12 अभी मौजूद और two more are planned.
yale employs over 1,100 faculty to सिखा and सलाह about 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate और professional students.
Almost all tenured professors सिखा undergraduate courses, more than 2,000 of which are offered annually.
The विश्वविद्यालयों 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion, the second-largest of any academic institution in the world.
Yale 's system of अधिक than दो dozen libraries holds 12.5 million volumes.
49 Nobel Laureates have been संबद्ध with the University as विद्यार्थी, faculty, and स्टाफ.
Yale has produced many notable alumni, including पाँच U.S. Presidents, 19 u.S. परम् Court justices, and several foreign heads of state.
at the graduate level, Yale Law School, Yale School of आर्ट, and Yale School of नाटक are consistently ranked the top programs in their field.
Yale Law School is the most selective law स्कूल in the संयुक्त States.
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the yale bulldogs in the NCAA Division I Ivy League.
the oldest intercollegiate athletic event in the United States is the Yale-Harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub from the family Asteraceae, which grows in arid and semi-arid शर्तें, throughout a range of cold desert, steppe, and mountain habitats in the intermountain वेस्ट of North America.
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several related members of the genus Artemisia, such as California sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ).
Big sagebrush and अन्य Artemisia species are the dominant plants across विशाल portions of the Great Basin, covering कुछ 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian राज्य.
it is the state पुष्प of नेवाडा.
Sagebrush provides food और habitat लिये a variety of species, such as ऋषि grouse, pronghorn antelope, gray vireo, pygmy rabbit, and खच्चर deer.
बिग sagebrush was used as an herbal आयुर्विज्ञान by देशी Americans throughout the Intermountain West of North America—especially for preventing संक्रमण in wounds, stopping आतंरिक bleeding, और treating headaches and colds.
Chemically, the active medicinal constituents include camphor, terpenoids, and tannins.
Several major threats exist to sage ब्रश ecosystems, including human settlements, परिवर्तन to agricultural जमीन, livestock grazing, हृदयरोग plant species, wildfires, and climate change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email service offered by the अमरीकी search इंजन company Yahoo !
it was launched in 1997, और, according to comScore, Yahoo ! Mail is the third-largest web-based ईमेल सेवा with 281 million users as of December 2012.
Currently, Yahoo ! offers तीन versions of याहू ! Mail.
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail क्लासिक '' continues the availability of the original interface introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 included a नई Ajax interface, drag-and-drop features, improved ढूंढें functionality, कुंजीपटल shortcuts, पता auto-complete, tabs, और other अद्यतनीकृत features.
In अक्तूबर 2010, याहू ! released a beta संस्करण of Yahoo ! मेल, which included improvements to the design, performance, search कार्यक्षमता, and Facebook integration.
In May 2011, beta testing for the new संस्करण stopped, और it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail.
in early 2008, Yahoo ! began offering unlimited मेल storage to its उपयोक्ता in response to heated competition in the free web-mail market segment.
On June 27, 2009, Yahoo ! मेसेंजर was integrated साथ Yahoo ! Mail.
Tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized urban port city and the county सीट of Pierce काउंटी, Washington, United States.
The city is on Washington 's puget ध्वनि, southwest of Seattle, northeast of the state पूंजी, ओलंपिया, और northwest of Mount rainier National Park.
The population was 198,397, according to the 2010 census.
Tacoma is the second-largest city in the puget Sound area and the third largest in the state.
Tacoma भी serves as the center of business activity for the South Sound region, which रै a population of around 1 million लोगों.
Tacoma adopted इसके नाम after the nearby Mount Rainier, originally called Mount Tahoma.
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the western terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad in the late 19th century.
The निर्णय of the रेलरोड was influenced by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water हार्बर, Commencement Bay.
by connecting the खाड़ी with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` When rails meet sails. ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the बंदरगाहों of Tacoma, a बीच of international व्यापार on the प्रशांत Coast and वॉशिंगटन state 's largest port.
Like सबसे central cities, टकोमा suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th century as a result of suburbanization and divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the शहर core शामिल the University of वॉशिंगटन Tacoma ; Tacoma कड़ी, the first modern electric light रेल सेवा in the state ; the state 's उच्चतम density of art and history museums ; और a लौटी urban waterfront, the Thea Foss Waterway.
With a long history of blue-collar मजदूर politics — इससे the railroad workers of the 19th century, to the longshoremen of the 20th century, to the मजदूर Ready workers of today — Tacoma has long been known लिये इसके अशिष्ट, gritty image.
A song परिचय Tacoma, `` Thrice All American '', by American singer-songwriter and former resident Neko Case, describes it as `` a dusty बूढ़ा गहना in the दक्षिण Puget ध्वनि / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down ''.
Tacoma-Pierce काउंटी has been named one of the most livable areas in the country.
Tacoma थी भी recently listed as the 19th most walkable city in the country.
In contrast, the city is भी ranked as the most stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 survey.
In 2006, महिलाओं 's magazine Self नामित Tacoma the `` Most Sexually Healthy City '' in the संयुक्त States.
In 2012, The Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` Gayest City in America '', in part because of the विशाल diversity of public offices held, और Washington State passing a विधेयक in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry.
Tacoma is प्रसिद्ध for the 1940 collapse of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge.
chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the सैन डिएगो metropolitan area, the seventh largest नगर in Southern California, the fourteenth largest नगर in the राज्य of California, और the 77th-largest नगर in the United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 243,916 as of the 2010 census.
स्तिथ just from downtown San Diego and from the मैक्सिकन border in the South खाड़ी region of the metropolitan area, the city is at the center of one of the richest economic and culturally diverse zones in the संयुक्त States.
Chula Vista is so named because of its scenic स्थान between the San Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills.
Founded in the early 19th century, fast population growth has recently been observed in the नगर.
as the second largest city in San Diego County, Chula विस्टा has quickly become a destination popular to many tourists.
Located in the city is एक of America 's few year-round United States Olympic Training centers and popular tourist गंतव्यों include Cricket बेतार amphitheater, the chula विस्टा marina, and the Chula Vista Nature Center.
Metes and bounds is a प्रणाली or method of describing land, real property ( in contrast to निजी property ) or real estate.
The system has been used in इंग्लैण्ड for many centuries, and is still used there in the definition of सामान्य boundaries.
By custom, it was applied in the original Thirteen colonies that became the United States, and in many अन्य land jurisdictions आधारित on English common law.
Typically the system uses physical features of the local geography, along with directions and distances, to define और describe the सीमाएँ of a पार्सल of land.
the boundaries हैं described in a running prose style, working around the parcel in sequence, from a point of beginning, returning back to the same point ; compare साथ the oral ritual of beating the bounds.
It may include सन्दर्भ to अन्य adjoining parcels ( and their owners ), और it, in turn, could also be referred to in later surveys.
At the time the description is compiled, it may have been marked on the ground with permanent monuments placed where there यहूद no suitable natural monuments.
the term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the measurement of each straight run, निर्दिष्ट by a distance between the terminal points, and an orientation or direction.
A direction may be a सरल compass bearing, or a precise orientation determined by accurate सर्वेक्षण methods.
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary वर्णन, such as साथ a निश्चित watercourse, a stone wall, an adjoining public सड़क way, or an existing building.
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g. खेतो ), and political subdivisions ( e.g. town boundaries ) where precise definition is not required or होता be far too expensive, or previously designated सीमाएँ can be incorporated into the description.
Sir इसहाक़ Newton ( 25 दिसम्बर 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist and गणितज्ञ who is widely regarded as एक of the most influential scientists of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution.
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy '' ), first published in 1687, रखी the मूलाधार for most of classical mechanics.
न्यूटन also made seminal योगदान to optics और साझा credit with Gottfried Leibniz for the आविष्कार of the infinitesimal कलन.
Newton 's प्रिन्सिपिया formulated the कानून of motion and universal gravitation that dominated scientists ' view of the physical universe for the next three centuries.
it also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth and कि of celestial bodies could be described by the वही principles.
By deriving Kepler 's laws of planetary गति from his mathematical description of gravity, Newton removed the last doubts परिचय the वैध of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope और developed a theory of colour based on the observation that a prism decomposes white light into the many colours of the visible spectrum.
He also formulated an अनुभवजन्य law of cooling and पढ़ाई the speed of sound.
In addition to his work on the calculus, as a गणितज्ञ Newton contributed to the study of power series, generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents, और developed Newton 's method लिये approximating the roots of a फलन.
Newton थी a fellow of Trinity कॉलेज और the second Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge.
he was a devout but unorthodox Christian और, unusually for a member of the Cambridge faculty, he refused to take holy आदेश in the गिरिजाघर of England, perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his कार्य on the mathematical sciences, न्यूटन also dedicated much of his time to the पढ़ाई of alchemy and biblical chronology, but most of his work in those areas remained unpublished until long बाद his death.
In his later life, Newton became अध्यक्ष of the Royal समाज.
He also परोसा the British government as वार्डन and Master of the Royal Mint.
Prof. वाल्टर lewin explains Newton 's law of gravitation in एमआईटी course 8.01
Satellites और projectiles all obey Newton 's law of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation राज्य that every point द्रव्यमान in the universe attracts every अन्य point mass with a फ़ोर्स that is सीधे proportional to the product of their masses और inversely proportional to the वर्गाकार of the distance between उन्हें.
( Separately it was shown कि large spherically symmetrical masses attract and हैं आकर्षित as if all their mass यहूद concentrated at their centers. )
इस is a general शारीरिक law derived from empirical observations by what Newton पुकारा induction.
it is a part of classical यांत्रिकी और was प्रतिपादित in Newton 's work Philosophiæ Naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ), first published on 5 जुलाई 1687.
( जब Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the royal Society, रॉबर्ट Hooke made a अर्जी कि न्यूटन had obtained the inverse square law from him – see History section below. )
In modern language, the law states the following:
Assuming SI इकाई, F is measured in newtons ( N ), m1 and m2 in kilograms ( kg ), r in meters ( m ), and the निरंतर G is approximately बराबर to.
The value of the निरंतर G was first accurately संकल्पित इससे the results of the कैवेंडिश experiment conducted by the British scientist Henry कैवेंडिश in 1798, although Cavendish किया not himself calculate a numerical मान for G.
This experiment was also the first test of Newton 's सिद्धान्त of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia और 71 सालो after न्यूटन 's मौत, so none of न्यूटन 's calculations could use the value of g ; instead he could only calculate a force सापेक्ष to another force.
Newton 's विधि of gravitation resembles कूलम्ब 's law of electrical forces, which is used to calculate the magnitude of electrical force between दो charged लाशें.
Both are inverse-square laws, in जिससे force is inversely आंशिक to the square of the distance between the bodies.
कूलम्ब 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of the masses, और the electrostatic निरंतर in place of the gravitational constant.
Newton 's law रै since been superseded by Einstein 's theory of सामान्य relativity, but it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity.
Relativity is required only when there is a need for extreme precision, or जब dealing with gravitation for extremely massive and dense objects.
White और red flags, representing Iraqi and American मौतों, sit in the grass quadrangle of The Valley Library on the Corvallis, Oregon, campus of Oregon State विश्वविद्यालयों.
As part of the traveling Iraq देह Count exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( नहीं related to Iraq Body Count project ), the ध्वज aim to `` raise जागरूकता of the human cost of the इराकी War. ''
( May 2008 )
Casualties of the विरोध in Iraq चूंकि 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq, as well as the क्रियाएँ of the विभिन्न armed groups operating in the country ) have come in many forms, और the accuracy of the information available on अलग प्रकार of इराकी War casualties varies greatly.
The table below summarizes various estimates of the इराकी casualty figures.
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational गठबन्धन, the death टोल is carefully tracked and अद्यतनीकृत रोज़, and the names and photographs of those मारे in action as well as in accidents have been published widely.
A कुल of 4,486 U.S. soldiers यहूद killed in इराकी between 2003 and 2012.
Regarding the Iraqis, however, information on both military and civilian casualties is दोनो less precise and less consistent.
Estimates of casualty levels are available from reporters on the scene, from officials of शामिल organizations, and from groups that summarize information on incidents reported in the न्यूज media.
The शब्द `` casualties `` in its most सामान्य sense includes the injured as well as the मुर्दे.
खाते of the क्रमांक of गठबन्धन wounded vary widely, partly because it is not स्पष्ट what चाहिए be counted : चाहिए only those injuries गंभीर enough to put a soldier out of आयोग be included ?
Do बीमारियों or injuries caused by accidents गिनती, or should the focus be restricted to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
स्त्रोत using different definitions may arrive at very अलग numbers, and sometimes the precise परिभाषा is not clearly specified.
Asalto al coche ( Robbery of the coach ), by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman was a thief and brigand who preyed on travellers.
इस type of outlaw प्रायः travelled and robbed by घोड़ा, as compared to a footpad who travelled और robbed on पैर.
Mounted robbers were widely माना to be socially superior to footpads.
Such robbers संचालित in ग्रेट Britain and Ireland from the Elizabethan era until the early 19th century.
the शब्द highwayman is पहला known to be used in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms included `` knights of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road. ''
Two शर्तें applied to 19th-century उत्तर American highwaymen were road agents in some instances for mountain डाकुओं जबकि in other cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians.
in the same time period in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, they were known as bushrangers.
Earvin `` जादू '' जॉनसन, Jr. ( born अगस्त 14, 1959 ) is a retired American पेशेवर basketball player जो played पाइंट guard for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ).
After winning championships in high school और कॉलेज, Johnson was selected पहला overall in the 1979 NBA ड्राफ्ट by the Lakers.
He won a चैंपियनशिप and an NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in his rookie season, and won four अधिक championships with the Lakers during the 1980s.
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing that he had contracted HIV, but returned to play in the 1992 All-Star खेल, winning the All-Star MVP Award.
After protests from उसके fellow players, he retired again लिये four years, but returned in 1996, at age 36, to play 32 games for the Lakers before retiring for the तीसरा and फाइनल time.
Johnson 's करियर achievements include three NBA MVP Awards, nine एनबीए Finals appearances, twelve All-Star games, and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations.
He led the league in regular-season assists four times, and is the एनबीए 's all-time नेता in average assists per खेल, at 11.2.
Johnson was a सदस्य of the `` Dream टोली ``, the U.S. basketball team that won the ओलम्पिक gold medal in 1992.
After leaving the NBA in 1992, Johnson formed the Magic जॉनसन All-Stars, a barnstorming टोली कि travelled around the world playing exhibition games.
जॉनसन was सम्मानित as one of the 50 Greatest खिलाड़ी in NBA इतिहास in 1996, and enshrined in the Basketball हॉल of Fame in 2002.
He was rated the greatest एनबीए पाइंट गार्ड of all समय by ESPN in 2007.
His friendship and rivalry with बोस्टन Celtics star Larry Bird, whom he faced in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship series, यहूद खूब प्रलेखित.
चूंकि his retirement, Johnson रै been an एडवोकेट for HIV/ एड्स रोकथाम and safe sex, as well as an entrepreneur, philanthropist, broadcaster and प्रेरक speaker.
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers लिये अनेक years, and was part of a समूह that खरीदा the लॉस एंजिल्स डॉजर्स in 2012.
allium cells in different phases of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes ( left ) and prokaryotes ( right )
the cell is the basic structural, functional and biological unit of all ज्ञात living organisms.
It is the smallest unit of life that is classified as a living thing ( except virus, which consists तभी from DNA/RNA covered by protein और lipids ), and is often पुकारा the building block of life.
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a झिल्ली, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids.
जीवों can be वर्गीकृत as unicellular ( consisting of a सिंगल cell ; including सबसे जीवाणु ) or multicellular ( including पौधे and animals ).
While the number of cells in पौधे and animals varies from प्रजाति to species, Humans contain about 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells.
Most plant और animal कोशिकाएं हैं between 1 and 100 micrometres and therefore are visible only under the microscope.
The cell was discovered by Robert Hooke in 1665.
The cell theory, first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden और Theodor schwann, states कि all organisms हैं composed of one or अधिक कोशिकाएं, कि all cells come from preexisting cells, that vital functions of an organism occur भीतर कोशिकाएं, and that all cells contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells.
Cells उभरा on planet धरती at least 4.0–4.3 billion years ago.
the word कोशिका आता from the Latin cella, meaning `` small room ''.
the descriptive term for the smallest जीना biological structure was coined by Robert Hooke in a किताब he published in 1665 when he compared the cork cells he देखी through his सूक्ष्मदर्शी to the small कक्ष monks lived in.
Grecian Formula is a men 's hair coloring product in the United States.
Canada and Europe previously banned the product क्युकी of its use of lead acetate.
A मोटर scooter 's सामने with an अव्यवहारिक number and variety of headlamps, added for decorative उद्देश्य
A headlamp is a lamp attached to the front of a vehicle to light the road ahead.
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age, spurred by the great disparity between daytime और nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety प्रशासन states कि nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark, despite only 25 % of traffic यात्राएं during darkness.
While it is common लिये the पद हेडलाइट to be used interchangeably in informal चर्चा, headlamp is the term for the device itself, while headlight properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device.
अन्य vehicles, such as trains and aircraft, are required to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps are often used on साइकिल, and are जरूरी in some jurisdictions.
They can be powered by a बैटरी or a small electrical सृजनकर्ता on the wheel.
Additionally automotive night vision systems work to supplement headlamps.
Women 's rights are the अधिकारों and entitlements claimed for women और girls of many societies worldwide.
In some places ये rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, and behaviour, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ इससे broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and लड़कियों in favour of men और लड़कों.
Issues commonly associated साथ notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to मेला wages or equal अदा ; to अपना property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into विधिक contracts ; and to have वैवाहिक, parental and religious rights.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, लेखक and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The रंग Purple ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a nomination for the अकादमी Award for Best अभिनेत्री and won her first सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार for उसके role in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda Mae Brown, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) सहेजें his lover ( Demi मूर ) in the blockbuster भुत.
This performance won उसके a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this बना Goldberg only the दूसरी black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an एक्टिंग oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won लिये Gone With the Wind in 1939.
notable बाद films include सिस्टर अधिनियम and Sister Act 2, The Player, बना in America, कैसा स्टेला Got Her नाली Back, लड़की, बाधित and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack फ्लैश, and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the आवाज़ of shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has महरूम nominated for 13 Emmy Awards लिये her कार्य in television.
She was co-producer of the popular game दिखाएँ Hollywood वर्गों from 1998 to 2004.
वो रै been the moderator of the daytime talk show The View since 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two दिन Emmys, two सुनहरी Globes, a Tony ( for production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, four People 's Choice Awards, and रै been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
वो is one of the few entertainers who have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, और Tony Award.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major पेशेवर ice hockey league of 30 franchised सदस्य clubs, of which सात are फिलहाल स्तिथ in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in नई York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the प्रीमियर professional ice हॉकी league in the world, and one of the major professional खेल leagues in the United States and Canada.
the स्टेनली Cup, the oldest पेशेवर sports trophy in उत्तर America, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff champion at the end of प्रत्येक season.
The league थी organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, after the suspension of operations of its predecessor संगठन, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), जिससे had been founded in 1909.
It started साथ four टीमों and, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now रचित of 30 active franchises.
The स्वदेश to which the name of the लीग originally referred was Canada, although the league has now been binational चूंकि 1924 when it expanded into the United राज्य.
After a श्रमिक dispute कि led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 ऋतु, the लीग resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
the NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries.
हालांकि Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past four प्लस decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both क्युकी of the एनएचएल 's continued expansion from six to तीस क्लब since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European खिलाड़ी.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the लार्वा of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is applied in particular to the लार्वे of Brachyceran flies, such as houseflies, cheese flies, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes and क्रेन flies.
`` Maggot '' is नहीं a technical term और should नहीं be taken as ऐसे ; in अनेक standard textbooks of entomology it does not appear in the अनुक्रमणिका at सब.
in many non-technical texts the term is प्रयुक्त for insect larvae in general.
Other sources have coined their own definitions ; for example : ``...
The पद applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared... '' and ``... Applied to the footless larvae of Dipters. ''
Maggot-like मक्खी larvae are of wide importance in ecology and आयुर्विज्ञान ; among other roles, various species are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage, attacking crops and foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, and causing myiasis.
Herod (, Hordos, Greek :, Hērōdēs ), also known as Herod the Great ( 73/74 BCE – 4 BCE in Jericho ), was a Roman client king of Judea.
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is described as `` a madman who murdered his own family और a ग्रेट many rabbis ``.
He is also known लिये his colossal भवन projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere, including his expansion of the Second Temple in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) और the construction of the port at Caesarea maritima.
Important details of उसके biography are gleaned from the works of the 1st century CE Roman–Jewish historian josephus Flavius.
The Romans बना Herod 's son, Herod Archelaus, ethnarch of Judea, Samaria, and Idumea ( biblical Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 ce, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman emperor Augustus who तब combined Samaria, Judea proper and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until आयु 41.
Herod 's अन्य son Herod Antipas थी tetrarch of Galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE.
abo blood group antigens present on red blood cells and IgM antibodies present in the सीरम
The abo रक्त group system is the most महत्वपूर्ण blood type system ( or blood group प्रणाली ) in human blood transfusion.
The संबद्ध anti-A and anti-B antibodies are usually IgM antibodies, which हैं usually produced in the first years of life by sensitization to environmental substances such as food, bacteria, and वाइरस.
ABO blood types हैं also present in some other animals, लिये उदाहरण apes such as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a आम year starting on मंगलवार ( link will display the पूरा calendar ) of the Gregorian पंचांग और a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar.
Northville is an affluent city located in and विभाजित by Oakland and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan.
The area is a उपनगरीय of Metropolitan डेट्रॉयट.
The population थी 5,970 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
सबसे of the city is in Oakland County, and is surrounded by the नगर of novi.
The वेन काउंटी portion is surrounded by Northville Township.
Northville is served by Northville Public Schools.
the city is स्तिथ northeast of ऐन Arbor and northwest of Detroit.
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2, 1925 ) is an American actress and vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous stage plays and musicals, feature films, and many television programs.
वो is known for उसके प्रदर्शन of `` the Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical Company, उसके 2001 one-woman show, Elaine Stritch at Liberty, और recently for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
She has been nominated for the Tony Award five times in विभिन्न श्रेणी.
Stritch is भी a three-time Emmy पुरस्कार winner.
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama टेलीविज़न show about a group of young offenders sentenced to work in a जातियाँ service programme, where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm.
the series खोली in 2009 and is currently ongoing.
Antonia थामस, ईवान Rheon, Lauren Socha, Nathan stewart-jarrett, and Robert Sheehan are introduced as अलीशा Daniels, Simon Bellamy, Kelly बेली, Curtis Donovan, and Nathan Young respectively.
Sheehan left बाद the दूसरी श्रेणी, replaced in the third by Joseph Gilgun as Rudy Wade.
After the चौथी श्रेणी was घोषित Rheon, Thomas and Socha had left उनके roles and would be replaced by new वर्ण Karla Crome, Nathan mcmullen and Matt Stokoe, as Jess, Finn and एलेक्स क्रमशः.
Midway through the fourth श्रेणी, Stewart-Jarrett left while Natasha O'Keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith.
on 19 March 2013, Channel 4 घोषित at a press event that they have renewed Misfits for a fifth and final series containing 8 एपीसोड.
ब्रेट Lorenzo Favre ( born अक्तूबर 10, 1969 ) is a former American फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football लीग ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the एनएफएल, having played quarterback for the Atlanta falcons ( 1991 ), Green खाड़ी Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), नई यॉर्क Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, और over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before होने selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL ड्राफ्ट by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL ड्राफ्ट.
Favre became the Packers ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the fourth game of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in for घायल quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every खेल through the 2007 season.
He थी traded to the New York Jets और started at quarterback for the 2008 season before हस्ताक्षर with the Vikings on अगस्त 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He बना an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the ap Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He रै led टीमों to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super कटोरी XXXI, सुपर Bowl xxxii ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including सबसे career touchdown passes, most करियर passing yards, most करियर pass completions, most career pass attempts, सबसे career interceptions thrown, most लगातार starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, और सबसे fumbles.
He is also referred to by उसके उपनाम `` the Gunslinger ''.
The following is a list of notable वायुयान hijackings around the world.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly known as the web ), is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the अंतरजाल.
With a वेब ब्राउजर, one can view web pages that may contain text, images, वीडियो, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
using अवधारणाओं from उसके earlier hypertext systems जैसे ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN, Sir Tim berners-lee, now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), लिखा a proposal in कूच 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and belgian computer वैज्ञानिक Robert cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the उपयोक्ता can browse at होगा '', and they सरेआम introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in December of the same year.
Wayne lyman Morse ( अक्तूबर 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from ऑरेगॉन, United States, ज्ञात for his proclivity for opposing his parties ' नेतृत्व, and specifically for his opposition to the Vietnam युद्ध on constitutional grounds.
Born in Madison, Wisconsin, and शिक्षित at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Minnesota Law School, Morse moved to Oregon in 1930 and began शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Oregon स्कूल of Law.
During World युद्ध II he was elected to the United States सीनेट as a Republican ; he became an Independent after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952.
While an independent, he set a record for performing the second longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate.
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955, and was reelected twice while a member of that party.
मोर्स made a brief run for the Democratic Party 's अध्यक्षीय nomination in 1960.
A few years later, मोर्स was one of only two Senators जो opposed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, which authorized the president to लो military कार्रवाई in वियतनाम without a declaration of युद्ध.
he जारी to speak out against the war in the ensuing years, and lost his 1968 बोली for reelection to bob Packwood, who criticized his strong opposition to the war.
Morse made दो अधिक bids for reelection to the Senate before his death in 1974.
In parliamentary procedure, a motion to table रै two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States, to table usually अर्थात् the to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to move for postponement of विचार ; a proposal to suspend consideration of a स्थगित motion.
Much less often, it means a motion to `` put on the table '' : a proposal to begin विचार ( or reconsideration ), a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world.
In the rest of the English-speaking संसार such as the United किंगडम, to table means to move to place [ the topic ] upon the table ( or to move to प्लेस on the table ) : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
Both the American और the अंग्रेजों dialects have the sense of `` to table '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the तालिका.
The difference is the idea of what the table is for, कि of a shelf off to the पक्ष, or an active कार्य bench.
The British meaning has the sense of the तालिका as being an क्रियाशील कार्य बेंच, with the topic being the center of attention, considered और discussed by all until it can be resolved, at which point it is taken off the 'table '.
The American भाव is that the table is like that of a shelf, archive, or long-term storage यंत्र, where the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there.
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 American 3D कंप्यूटर animated comedy-drama prison फिल्मी, and the third installment in the Toy Story series.
It was produced by Pixar Animation studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
निर्देशित by Lee Unkrich, the film was released worldwide from June through October in Disney Digital 3-D, RealD, and IMAX 3D.
Toy Story 3 was also the पहला film to be released theatrically with dolby Surround 7.1 sound.
The screenplay was लिखा by Michael Arndt, जबकि Unkrich wrote the story along साथ John lasseter and Andrew Stanton, respectively director and co-writer of the two first films.
the plot focuses on the toys Woody, Buzz Lightyear, and उनके friends dealing with an uncertain future as their owner, Andy, prepares to leave for college.
Actors Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, डॉन Rickles, estelle Harris, John Ratzenberger, Wallace Shawn, Jeff pidgeon, Jodi Benson, R. ली Ermey, जॉन मॉरिस, and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films.
Jim Varney, who निभाई Slinky Dog in the first two films, and Joe Ranft, who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy, both died before production began on Toy Story 3.
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by Blake Clark ( a dost of Varney ), while Ranft 's characters and various others were written out of the story.
New वर्ण include performances by Ned Beatty, Timothy Dalton, क्रिस्टन schaal, Bonnie हंट, Whoopi Goldberg, जेफ़ Garlin, Richard दयालु, and Michael Keaton.
The feature broke shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening दिन North American सकल for an animated film unadjusted for inflation, और a big खोलने with an unadjusted सकल of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing खोलने weekend लिये a पिक्चर्स फिल्मी, as well as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June.
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, both in the संयुक्त States और Canada, and worldwide.
In early August, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the उत्तर American बक्सा office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ), और the highest-grossing animated film of all time विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that month, Toy Story 3 became the पहला कभी animated फिल्मी in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is फिलहाल the 10th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of all time.
खिलौना Story 3 was मनोनीत लिये five Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, और Best Sound संपादन.
It was the third animated film ( after Beauty और the Beast और Up ) to be मनोनीत for Academy Award for Best Picture.
It won the awards for Best Animated Feature and Best Original Song.
जॉन Levell Starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an अमरीकी retired professional basketball shooting guard.
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190 pounds during his NBA playing career.
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four कॉलेजों in his native Oklahoma, सहित Oklahoma State विश्वविद्यालयों, he gained fame while playing for the New यॉर्क knicks of the National बास्केट Association in the 1990s.
Secure Digital or ( sd ) is a non-volatile मेमोरी कार्ड format for use in portable devices, such as mobile phones, digital cameras, GPS नेविगेशन devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD कार्ड Association ( SDA ).
SD technologies have महरूम implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of उत्पाद categories and more than 8,000 models.
the Secure Digital format includes चार card families available in तीन different form factors.
the चार परिवारों are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), और the SDIO, जिससे combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form factors are the original size, the `` mini '' आकार, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are अनेक combinations of form factors and device families.
electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a smaller card in a मेजबान device built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility और accept older SD ताश, but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A नए कार्ड may offer greater capacity than the host device can handle.
A newer card may use a file प्रणाली the host device can not navigate.
Use of an sdio card requires the मेजबान device be designed लिये the input/output functions the card provides.
the organization of the card was changed starting साथ the SDHC family.
Some vendors produced SDSC ताश above 1 GB before the SDA था standardized a method of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with इसके विशेषताएँ and assure users of compatibility.
Hugh जॉन Mungo Grant ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a अंग्रेजों actor and film producer.
He has received a Golden ग्लोब, a BAFTA, and an Honorary César.
उसके films have earned more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25 नाट्य releases worldwide.
Grant achieved international stardom after appearing in Richard Curtis 's successful Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He used this भेदन role as a बारंबार cinematic persona दौरान the 1990s, delivering कॉमिक performances in mainstream films like Mickey Blue आँखें ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ).
by the turn of the 21st century, he था established himself as a leading man skilled with a satirical comic talent.
Grant रै expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), About A Boy ( 2002 ), Love Actually ( 2003 ), and अमरीकी Dreamz ( 2006 ).
He later निभाई against type with multiple cameo roles in the epic drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film industry, Grant is cited as an anti-film star who approaches his roles जैसे a character actor, और attempts to मेक his acting appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of उसके comic skills include a nonchalant touch of irony / sarcasm and पढ़ाई physical mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed संवाद डिलीवरी और फेशियल expressions.
The entertainment media 's coverage of Grant 's life बंद the big screen has प्रायः overshadowed his कार्य as a thespian.
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the व्यवसायिक of acting, and in his disdain towards the संस्कृति of celebrity and hostility towards the media.
in a career spanning 30 years, Grant has repeatedly claimed that एक्टिंग is not a true calling but just a job he fell into.
the Han राजवंश ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 ad ) was an इम्पीरियल dynasty of चीन, preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
It was founded by the rebel leader Liu Bang, ज्ञात posthumously as सम्राट Gaozu of Han.
It थी briefly बाधित by the xin राजवंश ( 9–23 AD ) of the पूर्व regent Wang Mang.
This interregnum separates the हान into two अवधि : the Western Han ( 206 BC – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 ad ).
spanning over four centuries, the period of the हान Dynasty is considered a golden age in चाइनीज history.
To this day, China 's majority ethnic समूह refers to itself as the `` हान people '' and the Chinese स्क्रिप्ट is referred to as `` Han characters ``.
The Han Empire थी divided into areas directly controlled by the सेंट्रल government, ज्ञात as commanderies, and a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
ये kingdoms gradually lost all vestiges of their independence, particularly following the विद्रोह of the Seven States.
the Xiongnu, a nomadic confederation which dominated the पूर्वी Eurasian Steppe, defeated the Han army in battle in 200 bc.
Following the defeat, a political विवाह alliance was negotiated in जिससे the Han became the de facto inferior संगी.
When, despite the treaty, the Xiongnu जारी to raid Han borders, Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 BC ) शुभारम्भ several military campaigns against them.
The ultimate हान victory in these wars आखिरकार forced the Xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries.
These campaigns expanded Han प्रभुता into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the विशाल trade network known as the Silk सड़क, which reached as far as the Mediterranean world.
हान forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into two competing nations, the Southern and Northern Xiongnu, and forced the Northern Xiongnu आरपार the Ili River.
despite these victories, the territories north of Han 's borders were जल्दी overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation.
After 92 ad, the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in अदालत politics, engaging in violent power struggles between the various consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers, causing the Han 's ultimate downfall.
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist religious societies which instigated the पीला Turban Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion.
following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ), the palace eunuchs suffered होलसेल massacre by military officers, allowing सदस्यों of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords and divide the साम्राज्य.
जब Cao Pi, King of Wei, usurped the throne from Emperor Xian, the Han Dynasty ceased to exist.
The Han Dynasty थी an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant growth of the money अर्थव्यवस्था first established during the Zhou राजवंश ( c. 1050–256 bc ).
The coinage issued by the central government mint in 119 BC remained the standard coinage of China until the तंग Dynasty ( 618–907 ad ).
To pay for its military campaigns and the settlement of newly conquered frontier territories, the सरकारी राष्ट्रीयकृत the निजी नमक and iron industries in 117 bc.
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period, and the खोया revenue was recouped through heavily taxing निजी entrepreneurs.
The emperor थी at the pinnacle of Han society.
He presided over the हान government but shared power with दोनो the धामों and appointed ministers who came largely from the scholarly gentry क्लास.
इससे the शासनकाल of Emperor Wu onward, the Chinese court officially sponsored confucianism in education and court politics, synthesized साथ the cosmology of later विद्वानों such as Dong zhongshu.
This policy endured until the fall of the Qing राजवंश in 1911 AD.
Science and technology दौरान the Han period saw significant advances, including papermaking, the nautical steering rudder, the use of negative संख्याएँ in mathematics, the raised-relief मैप, the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for astronomy, and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
tourette syndrome ( also पुकारा Tourette 's syndrome, Tourette 's disorder, Gilles de la tourette syndrome, GTS or, more commonly, simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by अनेक physical ( motor ) tics और at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic.
These tics characteristically wax and wane, can be suppressed temporarily, and are preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is defined as part of a spectrum of tic disorders, which शामिल transient and दीर्घकालिक tics.
Tourette 's was once considered a rare and bizarre syndrome, most often संबद्ध with the मुँह of obscene words or socially inappropriate and अपमानजनक remarks ( coprolalia ), but this लक्षण is उपस्थित in only a small minority of लोगों with Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer माना a विरल condition, but it is not always correctly identified क्युकी most मामले are mild and the severity of tics decreases for सबसे children as they pass through किशोरावस्था.
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children आयु 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of transient और chronic tics in school-age children is उच्चतर, with the more common tics of eye blinking, coughing, throat clearing, sniffing, and facial movements.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, and Tourette 's does नहीं adversely affect प्रज्ञा or life expectancy.
Genetic और environmental factors play a भूमिका in the etiology of tourette 's, but the सटीक causes are unknown.
In most cases, medication is unnecessary.
There is no प्रभावी उपचार लिये every case of tics, but certain medications और therapies can help when their use is warranted.
शिक्षा is an महत्वपूर्ण part of कोई treatment plan, and explanation and reassurance alone हैं often sufficient treatment.
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are उपस्थित in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics.
These other शर्तें often cause more functional पुतलियों to the individual than the tics that are the hallmark of Tourette 's, hence it is important to correctly identify comorbid conditions and दावत उन्हें.
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of his resident, Georges Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a French physician and neurologist, who प्रकाशित an खाता of nine patients with tourette 's in 1885.
Sunbeam बैज.
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John Marston Co. ltd of Wolverhampton, इंग्लैण्ड, in 1888.
The company पहला made साइकिल, then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th सदी until about 1936, and applied the marque to all three forms of transportation.
the company also manufactured एयरो engines in the First World War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War.
A सनबीम थी the first British car to जीत a Grand Prix रेस, और set a number of land speed records.
The company गई into receivership in 1935 and was खरीदा by the Rootes Group, which continued to use the Sunbeam marque.
Fox News Channel ( fnc ), also known as Fox News, is a cable न्यूज चैनल owned by the फॉक्स Entertainment समूह, a subsidiary of News निगम.
As of April 2009, the channel थी उपलब्धियाँ to 102 million households in the United States and to viewers internationally, broadcasting primarily from its New York studios.
The channel was created by Australian-American media mogul Rupert Murdoch, who hired former NBC executive रोजर Ailes as its founding CEO.
It शुभारम्भ on October 7, 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers.
It grew during the late 1990s और 2000s to become the dominant cable न्यूज network in the United राज्य.
Critics have stated कि फॉक्स News Channel promotes conservative political positions and पक्षपातपूर्ण reporting.
Commentators, news anchors, और reporters at फॉक्स News Channel have responded that news reporting and political commentary operate independently of each अन्य, and have denied any bias in news reporting.
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away इससे the midline of the face ) from दोनो the mandibular second premolars of the मुँह but mesial ( toward the midline of the फेस ) from both mandibular second molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( lower ) arch of the मुँह, and generally opposes the maxillary ( upper ) first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion.
The function of this molar is similar to कि of all molars in regard to grinding being the प्रिंसिपल action during mastication, commonly known as chewing.
वहीँ are usually five well-developed पुलिन on mandibular पहला molars : two on the buccal ( side निकटतम the cheek ), two lingual ( side nearest the tongue ), and one distal.
There are great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the permanent mandibular molars, even though their फलन हैं similar.
the permanent mandibular molars are नहीं considered to have any teeth that precede it.
Despite being named molars, the deciduous molars are followed by permanent premolars.
In the universal system of संकेतन, the पतझड़ी mandibular first molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase.
The सही deciduous mandibular पहला molar is known as `` s '', and the left एक is ज्ञात as `` L ''.
The international notation has a अलग प्रणाली of notation.
Thus, the right deciduous mandibular first molar is ज्ञात as `` 84 '', and the left one is known as `` 74 ''.
In the universal system of notation, the permanent mandibular first molars are designated by a number.
The right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 30 '', और the left one is ज्ञात as `` 19 ''.
The Palmer notation uses a number in conjunction साथ a symbol designating in which quadrant the दाँत is found.
For this tooth, the left and right first molars would have the same number, `` 6 '', but the right one होता have the symbol, `` ┐ '', over it, while the बाएँ एक would have, `` ┌ ''.
The international संकेतन has a different numbering system than the previous two, and the right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 46 '', and the left one is known as `` 36 ''.
mandibular primary first molars usually have four pulp horns.
The first molar is usually the first स्थाई tooth to erupt and has adult undertones.
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB, toward midline and cheek ), mesiolingual ( ML, toward midline and tongue ), distolingual ( DL, दूर from midline and towards tongue ), distobuccal ( DB, away from midline and toward cheek ), and distal ( D, दूर इससे midline ), listed in order of अवरोहण size.
Listed in order of अवरोहण height they हैं : ML, DL, DF, MF, और D. An आठवीं cusp was मिला in a primary second lower molar in an Argentinean child.
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ), the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( five तरफा ) in shape और tapers toward the lingual, with the sides being the buccal सतह, the mesial surface, the lingual surface, distal surface, और the distobuccal surface.
the occlusal सतह has four grooves.
The central groove is not straight but रनों down the center of the tooth mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial, central, सेंट्रल, और distal ).
The distobuccal groove runs इससे the distal pit in the central groove distobuccally separating the distal और distobuccal cusps.
The lingual groove runs इससे the more distal of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the central groove toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual and distolingual पुलिन.
The buccal नाली runs इससे the more mesial of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the central groove toward the buccal सतह between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit.
The portion of the सेंट्रल groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory to account लिये the locations of the buccal and lingual grooves ( buccal groove being more mesial than the lingual groove while they are समानांतर ).
From the buccal ( buccal दृश्य ), दो roots are present.
The distal root is generally straighter, although both प्रायः have a slight distal curvature.
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal contact the adjacent दांत and हैं located at the junction of the occlusal and मध्य thirds of the crown.
The Florida Legislature is the two घरों कि act as the state legislature of the U.S. state of Florida.
The Florida Constitution states that `` The legislative power of the state shall be vested in a legislature of the राज्य of Florida, '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives.
the legislature is seated at the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee.
Stained glass depiction of Daniel interceding with arioch, the king 's guard.
Arioch था महरूम charged with killing all the wise men after they were not able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
Daniel 2 is the second chapter of the Book of Daniel in the Hebrew Bible.
The chapter 's source text is predominantly written in Aramaic.
According to the text, Nebuchadnezzar is the king of Babylon who is troubled by his dreams.
He demands an interpretation for his dreams or होगा have his mystic interpreters executed.
डेनियल seeks Divine अक्ल to interpret the king 's dreams और praises God साथ a short psalm.
परमेश्वर gives Daniel a vision in the night to खुलासा the king 's dream.
Able to satisfy the king, डेनियल is promoted over the whole प्रांत of Babylon.
एक comcast Center, the headquarters of Comcast in Philadelphia, PA.
The old Comcast logo इससे 1969 to 1999, when it was replaced साथ the crescent logo.
The comcast Corporation is an American प्रदाता of entertainment, information and communications products and services.
it is the largest केबल operator, one of the biggest mass media, home Internet service provider, and third largest home टेलीफोन service प्रदाता in the United States, providing केबल television, broadband अंतरजाल, telephone service and in some areas home security ( including burglar alarms, surveillance cameras, fire alarm systems and home स्वचालन ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia.
The company is headquartered in फिलाडेल्फिया, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
In 2011, comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal from ge in January 2011, and began the process of purchasing the बाकी 49 % on February 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 billion.
It completed the purchase on कूच 19, 2013.
Comcast also has significant पकड़कर in several केबल संजाल ( including E !
Entertainment Television, Style Network, G4, the Golf Channel and NBC खेल संजाल ), distribution ( ThePlatform ), और related businesses.
Comcast has been the subject of आलोचना for activities including its stance on net neutrality, as खूब as ग़रीब परिणाम on ग्राहक संतोष surveys.
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of sharp spines, or quills, that defend and camouflage them इससे परभक्षी.
They are indigenous to the americas, southern Asia, and Africa.
Porcupines are the third largest of the rodents, पीछे the capybara and the beaver.
Most porcupines are about long, with an long tail.
Weighing, they हैं rounded, large and slow.
porcupines come in various shades of brown, धूसर, and the unusual white.
porcupines ' spiny protection resembles कि of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs and monotreme echidnas.
The common साही is a herbivore.
It eats leaves, herbs, twigs and green plants like skunk गोभी and क्लोवर and in the winter it may eat छाल.
The उत्तर American porcupine often climbs trees to find food.
The African porcupine is not a climber and forages on the ground.
It is mostly nocturnal, but will sometimes forage लिये खाना in the day.
porcupines have become a pest in Kenya and हैं eaten as a delicacy.
The name porcupine comes from Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ).
A क्षेत्रीय American name for the animal is quill pig.
First page of US patent 129,843 for सुधार in Lubricators लिये steam-engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2, 1844 – October 10, 1929 ) was a ब्लैक Canadian-American inventor and इंजीनियर, who थी notable लिये उसके 57 u.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of steam engines.
Born free in Canada, he returned as a five-year-old child साथ उसके family to the संयुक्त States in 1847, where he lived for the rest of his life and became a US citizen.
Honda FCX Clarity, a हाइड्रोजन fuel cell demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle that uses hydrogen as its onboard fuel for motive शक्ति.
Hydrogen vehicles शामिल hydrogen fueled space rockets, as well as ऑटोमोबाइल और other परिवहन वाहनों.
The power plants of such vehicles convert the रासायनिक energy of hydrogen to mechanical उर्जा either by burning hydrogen in an आतंरिक combustion engine, or by reacting hydrogen with ऑक्सीजन in a fuel cell to run electric मोटर्स.
Widespread use of हाइड्रोजन for fueling transportation is a key element of a proposed hydrogen economy.
Hydrogen fuel does not occur naturally on Earth and thus is not an energy सोर्स ; बल्कि it is an energy carrier.
It is सबसे frequently made from methane or other चट्टान fuels, but it can be produced using स्त्रोत ( such as wind, solar, or nuclear ) कि are intermittent, too व्याप्त or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants, using electrolysis of water, are exploring technologies to deliver costs कम enough, और quantities great enough, to compete with traditional energy sources.
Many companies are working to develop technologies that might efficiently exploit the संभावित of हाइड्रोजन energy for mobile uses.
the attraction of using hydrogen as an उर्जा currency is that, if hydrogen is prepared without using चट्टान fuel inputs, गाडी propulsion होता not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions.
The drawbacks of हाइड्रोजन use हैं ऊँची capital cost, low energy content per unit आवाज़, ऊँची tankage weights, बहुत high storage पोत pressures, the storage, transportation and भरना of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in वाहनों, the large investment in infrastructure that would be जरूरी to fuel वाहनों, and the inefficiency of उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं.
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California और the seat of government of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the northern portion of California 's expansive Central घाटी.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the 35th largest नगर in the United States.
Sacramento is the core सांस्कृतिक and economic center of the Sacramento महानगर area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 जनसांख्यिकी of 2,527,123.
Its महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the fourth largest in California बाद the Greater Los एंजिल्स Area, San Francisco Bay Area, and the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as अमेरिका 's most ethnically और racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a नगर through the efforts of the Swiss अप्रवासी John Sutter, Sr., उसके son John Sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's Fort, जिससे was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Gold Rush, Sacramento was a major distribution पाइंट, a commercial और agricultural center, और a terminus for wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California राज्य University, Sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as Sacramento राज्य or Sac State, is the largest local विश्वविद्यालयों.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University प्रणाली.
Drexel University Sacramento is located in Downtown, Sacramento.
विश्वविद्यालयों of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of विधि is located in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In जोड, the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Davis is located in nearby Davis, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned शोध hospital, is स्तिथ in the नगर of Sacramento.
The ठहराना Store is a chain of retail stores owned and operated by Apple Inc., dealing in computers and consumer electronics.
The stores sell मैकिंटोश personal computers, तन्त्र, iPods, iPads, iPhones, third-party accessories, और other consumer electronics such as ठहराना TV.
Some high प्रोफ़ाइल stores feature a Theatre for presentations and workshops and a Studio for training with Apple products ; all stores offer a Genius Bar for technical support and मरम्मत, as well as फ़्री workshops available to the public.
अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व of Ron Johnson, the former Senior Vice President of Retail Operations, the ठहराना Stores have, according to an article in the New York टाइम्स, been responsible for `` [ turning ] the उबाऊ computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets ''.
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide, with global sales of billion in merchandise in 2011, and वे lead the United States retail market in terms of sales per ईकाई area.
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24, 1955 – अक्तूबर 5, 2011 ) थी an अमरीकी entrepreneur and inventor, best known as the co-founder, chairman, and CEO of Apple inc.
Through Apple, he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer revolution and for his influential career in the computer and consumer electronics fields, transforming `` one industry after another, from computers and smartphones to music and movies... ''
Jobs also co-founded और served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a member of the board of directors of The Walt Disney Company in 2006, when Disney acquired पिक्चर्स.
Jobs was among the first to see the वाणिज्यिक potential of Xerox PARC 's चूहा -driven आलेखीय user interface, which led to the creation of the ठहराना Lisa and, एक year later, the Macintosh.
He also played a role in introducing the LaserWriter, one of the first widely available laser printers, to the मार्केट.
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985, Jobs left ठहराना and founded अगला, a computer platform विकास company specializing in the higher-education and business markets.
In 1986, he acquired the computer graphics प्रभाग of Lucasfilm, which थी spun off as Pixar.
He was credited in Toy स्टोरी ( 1995 ) as an executive producer.
He served as CEO and majority shareholder until Disney 's खरीदें of Pixar in 2006.
in 1996, after Apple had failed to deliver its operating system, Copland, Gil amelio turned to NeXT Computer, और the NeXTSTEP platform became the foundation for the Mac os x.
Jobs returned to Apple as an advisor, and took control of the company as an interim CEO.
Jobs brought Apple from near दिवालियापन to profitability by 1998.
As the new CEO of the company, Jobs oversaw the development of the iMac, iTunes, iPod, iphone, and iPad, और on the services side, the company 's ठहराना Retail Stores, itunes Store and the App Store.
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial returns, and propelled Apple to become the world 's most मूल्यवान सरेआम traded company in 2011.
the reinvigoration of the कम्पनी is regarded by many commentators as one of the greatest turnarounds in business history.
In 2003, कार्य थी diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it was initially treated, he reported a hormone imbalance, underwent a liver transplant in 2009, और appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
On medical leave for most of 2011, Jobs resigned in August that year, and was निर्वाचित Chairman of the Board.
He died of respiratory arrest related to उसके metastatic tumor on अक्तूबर 5, 2011.
कार्य received a number of honors and public recognition for his influence in the technology और music industries.
He has been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or simply `` visionary '', and has been described as the `` Father of the डिजिटल Revolution '', a `` निपुण of innovation '', और a `` design perfectionist ''.
Entrance to section ( 52 ) of the कोलोसियम, with numerals still visible
रोमन numerals, the numeric system in प्राचीन Rome, उपयोग combinations of letters इससे the Latin alphabet to signify मान.
the numbers 1 to 10 can be expressed in Roman numerals as follows:
and.
the Roman numeral system is a cousin of Etruscan numerals.
Use of रोमन numerals continued after the decline of the Roman Empire.
From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in सबसे contexts by more सुविधाजनक hindu-arabic numerals ; however this process was gradual, and the use of रोमन numerals in some minor अनुप्रयोग continues to this day.
Effective Nuclear Charge आरेख
The effective nuclear charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net धनात्मक charge experienced by an electron in a multi-electron atom.
the पद `` effective '' is used because the shielding effect of negatively charged electrons prevents higher orbital electrons इससे experiencing the पूरा nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
The effective nuclear charge experienced by the outer शेल electron is also called the core charge.
It is possible to determine the strength of the nuclear चार्ज by looking at the oxidation number of the अणु.
This is a list of episodes from the डिस्कवरी चैनल series, Storm Chasers.
A rural stretch of I-5, साथ two lanes in each direction separated by a large grassy median, and with cross-traffic limited to overpasses and underpasses
the Dwight D. Eisenhower National प्रणाली of Interstate and Defense Highways ( commonly known as the Interstate राजमार्ग प्रणाली, Interstate Freeway System, अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली, or simply the Interstate ) is a संजाल of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United राज्य.
The system is named for President Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, जो championed its गठन.
Construction was authorized by the संघीय Aid Highway Act of 1956, and the original portion was completed 35 years बाद.
The network has since been extended, and, it had a total length of, making it the संसार 's दूसरी longest after China 's., about one-quarter of all vehicle miles driven in the country use the Interstate प्रणाली.
the cost of construction has been estimated at $ 425 अरब ( in 2006 dollars ), making it the `` largest public works कार्यक्रम since the Pyramids ``.
The system has contributed in shaping the United States into a world आर्थिक महाशक्ति और a अत्यधिक industrialized nation.
.eu is the देश code top-level domain ( ccTLD ) for the European Union ( eu ).
Launched on 7 December 2005, the domain is available for organisations in और residents of eu member राज्य.
the TLD is administered by EURid, a consortium originally consisting of the national ccTLD registry operators of Belgium, Sweden, and इटली, joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic.
Trademark स्वामी were समर्थ to submit registrations through a sunrise काल, in an effort to prevent cybersquatting.
Full registration started on 7 April 2006.
Meister means master in German ( as in master craftsman, or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ).
the शब्द is akin to maestro.
In sports, Meister is used for the current नेशनल, European or world champion ( Deutscher Meister, *Europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many modern day जर्मनी police forces use the title meister.
During the Second World War, Meister was the उच्चतम आयोजिक रैंक of the Ordnungspolizei.
meister has been borrowed into अंग्रेज़ी slang, जहाँ it is प्रयुक्त in compound nouns.
A person referred to as “meister” is one who has extensive theoretical ज्ञान and practical skills in his profession, business, or कुछ other दयालु of work or activity.
For example, a “puzzle-meister” होता be someone highly skilled at solving puzzles.
ये neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example, “stubble-meister” for किसी with a short, neat beard or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ).
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers, based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai मताधिकार, Kyōryū sentai Zyuranger.
Both the show और its related merchandise saw unbridled overnight कामयाबी, becoming a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere महीने.
Under the असली name, `` Mighty Morphin शक्ति Rangers '' the श्रेणी ran from 1993 to 1995 और spawned the feature film Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie.
the second and third seasons of the show खींचा on footage और elements from the Super Sentai श्रेणी Gosei sentai dairanger and Ninja sentai Kakuranger respectively, though the zyuranger costumes were still प्रयुक्त for the five main Rangers और अनेक नियमित villains.
तभी the mecha and the Kiba रेंजर costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) यहूद retained from Dairanger for the second season, जबकि only the mecha from Kakuranger यहूद featured in the third season.
However the Kakuranger costumes were later प्रयुक्त for the title characters of the mini-series, mighty morphin एलियन Rangers.
The series was produced by mmpr प्रोडक्शन्स, distributed by Saban Entertainment, और aired on Fox Kids.
The show 's merchandise was उत्पादित and distributed by Bandai Entertainment.
In 1996, the series was rebranded as the Power Rangers franchise ; renaming the series every year after, and using costumes, props, and footage from subsequent Super sentai श्रेणी, as well as changing the डाल और storyline.
While an overarching storyline would continue until Power Rangers Lost Galaxy, subsequent series after MMPR हैं not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional भाव.
in 2010, a re-version of mighty Morphin Power रेंजरों, साथ a new लोगो, कॉमिक book-referenced ग्राफिक्स, और extra alternative special effects, was broadcast on एबीसी बच्चे, and Bandai produced brand नई खिलौने to coincide with the series.
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19, 1809 – अक्तूबर 7, 1849 ) was an American author, poet, editor and literary critic, considered part of the अमरीकी Romantic Movement.
Best known for his tales of mystery और the macabre, Poe was one of the earliest American practitioners of the short story और is generally माना the inventor of the detective fiction genre.
he is further credited साथ contributing to the उभरते genre of science fiction.
He was the first well-known अमरीकी writer to try to earn a living through writing alone, resulting in a financially मुश्किल जीवन और career.
He थी born as Edgar Poe in Boston, Massachusetts ; he थी orphaned young जब his mother died shortly after उसके father abandoned the family.
Poe थी taken in by John and Frances allan, of Richmond, Virginia, but they never formally adopted him.
He attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of Virginia for एक सेमेस्टर but left due to कमी of money.
बाद enlisting in the फौज and later failing as an अधिकारी 's cadet at West Point, Poe parted तरीके with the allans.
His publishing करियर began humbly, with an anonymous collection of poems, Tamerlane and Other कविताएं ( 1827 ), credited only to `` a Bostonian ''.
Poe switched his focus to prose and spent the next several सालो working for literary जर्नल्स and periodicals, becoming known for his अपना style of literary criticism.
His कार्य forced उसे to move among several cities, including Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York City.
In Baltimore in 1835, he married Virginia Clemm, his 13-year-old cousin.
In January 1845 Poe प्रकाशित उसके poem, `` the Raven ``, to instant success.
His बीवी died of tuberculosis two years after its publication.
He began नियोजन to उपज his own journal, The Penn ( later renamed The Stylus ), हालांकि he died पहले it could be produced.
On October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in Baltimore ; the कारण of उसके death is unknown and has been variously attributed to दारू, brain congestion, हैजा, drugs, heart disease, rabies, आत्महत्या, tuberculosis, and other agents.
Poe and his works बहकावे literature in the United States and around the world, as well as in specialized fields, such as cosmology और cryptography.
Poe and his work appear throughout लोकप्रिय culture in literature, म्यूज़िक, films, and television.
A number of his homes are dedicated संग्रहालय today.
The Mystery Writers of America उपस्थित an annual award known as the Edgar Award for distinguished work in the mystery विधा.
Lions are obligate carnivores ; वे आवश्यकता up to seven गामा ( 15 lbs ) of मांस per day.
a major घटक of their diet is the flesh of large mammals, like this African buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat भक्षक ' ( Latin, caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' और vorare meaning 'to devour ' ) is an organism that derives इसके energy and nutrient आवश्यकताएँ from a आहार consisting मुख्यतः or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
पशु that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are considered carnivores while those that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores.
Omnivores also consume both एनिमल and non-animal food, and apart from the more general definition, there is no clearly defined अनुपात of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore.
A carnivore कि sits at the शीर्ष of the foodchain is an apex परभक्षी.
Plants that कैप्चर and digest कीट are पुकारा carnivorous पौधे.
similarly, fungi कि capture microscopic पशु are often called carnivorous fungi.
The FIFA संसार Cup, often बस the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the सदस्यों of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The चैंपियनशिप has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions are Spain, who won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 teams competing for the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the host स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup फाइनल.
A qualification phase, जिससे currently takes place over the preceding तीन years, is used to determine जिससे teams qualify लिये the tournament साथ साथ the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been जीती by eight different national टीमों.
Brazil have won five times, और वे are the only team to have played in every टूर्नामेंट.
The अन्य World कप विजेता are Italy, साथ four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural विजेता Uruguay, with two शीर्षक each ; and इंग्लैण्ड, France, और Spain, with one title each.
the World कप is the संसार 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people देखी the फाइनल match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Heroes is an American science fiction television drama श्रेणी created by Tim क्रिंग that appeared on NBC for four सीज़न from September 25, 2006 through फ़रवरी 8, 2010.
The series tells the कहानियां of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities, और how these abilities take effect in the characters ' जीवनदान.
The श्रेणी emulates the aesthetic style और storytelling of American comic books, using multi-episode story arcs that build upon a larger, more encompassing चाप.
the series थी उत्पादित by tailwind Productions in संघ with Universal Media Studios.
It was filmed primarily in लॉस Angeles, California.
Four complete seasons aired, समाप्ति on February 8, 2010.
the critically acclaimed first season had a चलाएं of 23 episodes and garnered an average of 14.3 million viewers in the United States, receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years.
The second season of नायक आकर्षित an average of 13.1 लाख दर्शक in the U.S., and चिह्नित NBC 's sole series among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 ऋतु.
Heroes has earned a number of पुरस्कार and nominations, including Primetime Emmy Awards, Golden Globes, People 's चुनाव Awards and अंग्रेजों अकादमी Television Awards.
An ऑनलाइन extension of the series, Heroes 360 Experience, बाद rebranded as Heroes evolutions, थी created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology.
Other official Heroes media शामिल magazines, action आंकड़े, tie-in and interactive websites, a mobile game, a novel, clothing और other merchandise.
In the fall of 2008, एनबीसी Digital Entertainment released a series of online content लिये the summer, including more original web content, बेतार iTV interactivity, graphic novels available for mobile viewing और webisodes.
NBC announced Heroes cancellation on May 14, 2010.
afterward, the network considered making a television special event to conclude the series ; however, on September 9, 2010, NBC announced the decision to stop any further development of the नायक मताधिकार.
Tim Kring then suggested कि the broad premise of नायक storylines allowed for the मताधिकार to return for fans, but he did नहीं बताएँ जब or in what media format.
On April 17, 2013, tv Line reported that MSN was in talks to revive the series with a new cast.
John Pierpont `` J. p. ''
मॉर्गन ( April 17, 1837 – March 31, 1913 ) थी an American financier, banker, philanthropist और आर्ट collector who dominated corporate वित्त and industrial consolidation during his समय.
In 1892 Morgan arranged the विलय of Edison General Electric और Thomson-Houston Electric Company to form सामान्य Electric.
After financing the creation of the Federal स्टील Company, he merged in 1901 with the कार्नेगी Steel Company and several other स्टील and iron businesses, सहित संचित Steel and Wire कम्पनी स्वामित्व by William Edenborn, to form the United States Steel Corporation.
Morgan died in Rome, Italy, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving his fortune और business to his son, जॉन Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan, Jr., और bequeathing his mansion and large book collections to the Morgan Library & Museum in New York.
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s, he और his partners had financial investments in many large corporations and were accused by critics of controlling the nation 's high finance.
He directed the बैंकिंग coalition that stopped the Panic of 1907.
He was the leading financier of the Progressive Era, and his dedication to दक्षता and modernization helped transform American business.
This is a list of episodes of the television series.
The episodes were directed by Shigeru Ueda and produced by the Yggdrasil Executive Committee which included Xebec और Genco.
The प्लाट of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around Rin Asōgi, an immortal private investigator, as she explores the secrets of modern and near-future world और the supernatural events कि घेर the fictional society of immortals जैसे herself.
There are large time gaps in the internal कालक्रम between the पहला five episodes, ranging from one to तीस years.
The छह episodes were broadcast मासिक on AT-X चैनल in Japan, between February 3 and July 6, 2008.
Each episode is 45 minutes long.
दो pieces of theme music हैं used for the episodes : the खोलने theme `` Alsatia '' and the ending theme `` Cause Disarray ''.
दोनो were composed and performed by the Japanese metal band Galneryus.
the series was produced to commemorate the tenth वर्षगांठ of the AT-X network it originally aired on.
Aerial फ़ोटो of FLETC, जहाँ us digital forensics standards were developed in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes ज्ञात as digital forensic science ) is a शाखा of forensic science encompassing the रिकवरी and investigation of material found in digital devices, often in relation to computer crime.
The term digital forensics was originally used as a पर्याय for computer forensics लकिन has expanded to cover investigation of सब devices सक्षम of storing digital data.
साथ roots in the निजी computing revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s, the discipline evolved in a haphazard manner during the 1990s, and it was not जबतक the early 21st century कि national policies emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a किस्में of applications.
The most आम is to support or refute a परिकल्पना before दण्ड or civil ( as part of the electronic discovery process ) courts.
forensics may भी विशेषता in the private sector ; such as during internal कॉरपोरेट investigations or intrusion investigation ( a specialist जांच into the nature और extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ).
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches, relating to the प्रकार of digital devices involved ; computer forensics, network forensics, forensic data analysis और mobile device forensics.
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure, forensic imaging ( acquisition ) and analysis of digital media and the production of a report into collected प्रमाण.
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime, डिजिटल forensics can be प्रयुक्त to attribute evidence to विशिष्ट suspects, confirm alibis or statements, determine intent, identify sources ( for example, in copyright मामले ), or authenticate दस्तावेज़.
investigations are much broader in scope than अन्य areas of forensic analysis ( where the usual उद्देश्य is to provide answers to a श्रेणी of simpler questions ) often involving complex time-lines or hypotheses.
a comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by some रंग spaces.
A color model is an abstract mathematical मॉडल describing the way colors can be represented as tuples of numbers, typically as three or चार values or color components ( e.g. RGB and CMYK are रंग models ).
However, a रंग model with no संबद्ध मानचित्रण फलन to an absolute color space is a more or less arbitrary color system with no कनेक्शन to any globally समझा system of रंग interpretation.
Adding a निश्चित mapping function between the color model and a certain reference color space results in a definite `` footprint '' within the reference color स्पेस.
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut, and, in combination with the color मॉडल, defines a new color space.
For example, adobe RGB and sRGB are two अलग absolute color स्पेसेस, both based on the आरजीबी model.
In the most generic भाव of the definition above, color spaces can be defined without the उपयोग of a color model.
These spaces, such as Pantone, are in effect a given set of names or numbers which are defined by the existence of a corresponding set of शारीरिक रंग swatches.
This article focuses on the mathematical model concept.
Labor Day is an American federal अवकाश observed on the first Monday in September, कि celebrates the economic and social contributions of workers.
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) और an insurer, जहाँ the insurer promises to pay a designated beneficiary a sum of धन ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person.
Depending on the contract, other कार्यक्रम such as terminal बीमारी or critical illness may भी ट्रिगर payment.
The policy holder typically pays a premium, either regularly or as a lump sum.
अन्य expenses ( such as funeral expenses ) are also sometimes शामिल in the benefits.
जीवन policies हैं legal contracts and the terms of the contract describe the limitations of the insured events.
Specific exclusions are प्रायः written into the contract to limit the liability of the insurer ; common examples are claims relating to suicide, fraud, war, riot और सिविल commotion.
Life-based contracts tend to fall into दो major categories:
सुरक्षा policies – designed to provide a benefit in the event of specified event, typically a lump योग भुगतान.
a common रूप of this design is term बीमे.
Investment नीतियों – where the main objective is to facilitate the growth of capital by regular or single premiums.
Common forms ( in the US ) हैं whole life, universal जीवन and variable life policies.
{ { infobox Holiday
Chinese New Year
9 – 12 February ( Vietnam )
Mitzi gaynor Donahue ( born May 2, 1962 in yorba Linda, नारंगी County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is an American अभिनेत्री, also credited और more popularly ज्ञात as Mitzi Kapture.
kapture began उसके career in films, सबसे of which were नहीं विशाल वाणिज्यिक successes.
She went on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver, 1st & Ten, और as a contestant on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) पहले she gained international exposure साथ उसके first major television भूमिका as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk stalkings.
Kapture 's role as Rita, the other हाफ of the two `` Sams '' for almost 5 years, cemented her popularity.
Paired with रोब Estes जो played Sergeant Chris Lorenzo, Kapture gained global recognition along साथ her costar since the show was broadcast in several countries.
Sergeant Lance eventually became Lieutenant Lance by the time Kapture बाएँ the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During her time साथ the series, Kapture briefly sat in the director 's chair, लिये two episodes.
She was interviewed for the Silk stalkings Season 1 DVD which थी distributed by Anchor Bay entertainment and released in September 2004.
After a छोटी hiatus इससे the screen following उसके exit इससे Silk Stalkings, Kapture returned in 1997 to the small screen and USA Network.
वो played सीसे roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies, Perfect अपराधों ( based on a true story, also called Hide and तलाश : the Joanne Jensen Story ), which भी starred Jasmine guy and His Bodyguard.
She later starred in a few other independent film projects and थिएटर productions and had several television guest appearances.
Kapture also था a recurring role on Baywatch as Alexis ryker.
She played Anita Hodges on the यंग and the बेचैन from 2002 through 2004, where वो थी credited as Mitzi kapture Donahue, and starred in the made-for-tv फिल्म Night of Terror which premiered कूच 26, 2006 on Lifetime Network.
Her latest is a supporting role in God 's Ears, released in 2007.
kapture is the official हस्ती प्रवक्ता for the Xeroderma pigmentosum Society.
The Xbox 360 is the second video game console developed by and produced for microsoft and the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes with Sony 's प्लेस्टेशन 3 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
as of September 30, 2012, 70 million Xbox 360 consoles have been sold worldwide.
The Xbox 360 थी officially unveiled on एमटीवी on May 12, 2005, साथ detailed launch and game information divulged later that month at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment Expo ( E3 ).
The कंसोल sold out completely upon release in सब regions मगर in Japan.
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service कि allows players to compete online ; डाउनलोड arcade games, game demos, trailers, TV shows, music and movies ; and its Windows Media बीच multimedia capabilities.
The Xbox सजीव also offers access to various ( often region-specific ) third-party media streaming applications.
At उनके e3 presentation on June 14, 2010, Microsoft announced a redesigned Xbox 360 that would ship on the same दिन.
The redesigned कंसोल is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and features integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi, TOSLINK S/PDIF optical ऑडियो output, five USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) और a special AUX port.
Older models of the Xbox 360 have since been discontinued.
the first new console to be released features a 250 gb hard drive, जबकि a later, कम expensive SKU features 4 GB आतंरिक storage.
Backpack may also refer to a 2001 novel by Emily Barr
A modern backpack
Swiss army backpack ca. 1960
Integrated bearer frame.
A backpack ( also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, पैक ) is, in its simplest form, a cloth sack carried on एक 's back and secured with दो straps that go over the shoulders, but there can be अपवाद.
Lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on only एक shoulder डोरी.
Backpacks are प्रायः preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying any sort of equipment, because of the limited capacity to carry heavy weights for long अवधि of समय in the hands.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 lbs ), usually offload the largest part ( up to परिचय 90 % ) of उनके weight onto padded hip belts, leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load.
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the hips are stronger than the shoulders, and भी increases चपलता and balance, since the लोड rides nearer the wearer 's own center of mass.
In प्राचीन टाइम्स, the backpack was प्रयुक्त as a means to carry the hunter 's larger game and other types of शिकार and as a way of easier हस्तांतरण लिये other materials.
In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters would dismember their prey and distribute the pieces of the animal around, each one पैकिंग the meat into many wrappings and then into bags जिससे they placed on to their backs.
The थैला itself थी made up of different animal hide और स्किन ( depending on what sorts of पशु were in the area ) और sewn together by the आंतों of said animals, which were woven साथ tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material.
Mexico ( ; ; ), officially the संयुक्त मैक्सिकन States ( ), is a संघीय constitutional गणतंत्र in North America.
It is bordered on the उत्तर by the United States ; on the दक्षिण और west by the प्रशांत Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala, Belize, and the Caribbean समुद्र ; and on the east by the Gulf of Mexico.
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ), Mexico is the पांचवां largest country in the Americas by total area and the 13th largest स्वतंत्र nation in the world.
With an estimated population of over 113 million, it is the world 's eleventh सबसे populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states and a Federal District, the capital नगर.
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into उन्नत सभ्यताओं such as the Olmec, the Toltec, the teotihuacan, the Zapotec, the Maya and the Aztec पहले first contact with europeans.
in 1521, Spain conquered and colonized the territory इससे its base in México-Tenochtitlan, जिससे was administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain.
इस territory होता eventually become मैक्सिको following recognition of the colony 's independence in 1821.
The post-independence period थी characterized by आर्थिक instability, the Mexican-American War and territorial cession to the United राज्य, a civil war, two empires and a domestic dictatorship.
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910, जिससे culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution and the emergence of the देश 's current political प्रणाली.
Elections held in July 2000 marked the first time कि an विपक्ष party won the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary Party.
Since 2006 the country has been in the midst of a drug war which रै caused 60,000 मौतों.
Mexico has एक of the संसार 's largest economies, and is considered both a क्षेत्रीय शक्ति and middle power.
In जोड, Mexico was the पहला लैटिन American member of the Organisation for आर्थिक Co-operation and विकास OECD ( since 1994 ), and considered an upper-middle income country by the World बैंको.
मैक्सिको is considered a newly industrialized country and an emerging power.
It has the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing power parity.
The economy is strongly linked to those of its North अमरीकी Free Trade अनुबंध ( NAFTA ) partners, विशेषकर the United राज्य of अमेरिका.
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by number of UNESCO World विरासत साइट with 31, and in 2007 was the tenth most visited country in the संसार with 21.4 million international arrivals per year.
Babe रुथ holds the एमएलबी करियर slugging percentage record (.690 ).
in baseball statistics, slugging प्रतिशत ( abbreviated SLG ) is a लोकप्रिय measure of the power of a hitter.
it is calculated as total bases विभाजित by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats for a दिए player, and 1b, 2B, 3B, and HR are the number of singles, युगल, triples, और home runs, respectively.
Walks are specifically excluded from इस calculation.
For उदाहरण, in 1920, Babe Ruth played his first season for the New York Yankees.
In 458 at bats, Ruth had 172 hits, comprising 73 singles, 36 युगल, 9 तिगुना, and 54 home runs, which brings the total base गिनती to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His total number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, his slugging प्रतिशत लिये the season.
The अगला year he slugged.846, and these records went unbroken until 2001, जब Barry bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, बेमेल since.
is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square ( now वर्गाकार Enix ) for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's विकास team शामिल three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu sakaguchi, the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii, a freelance designer and creator of Enix 's popular ड्रैगन Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama, a freelance manga artist famed for his work with ड्रैगन Quest and Dragon Ball.
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game, Masato Kato wrote सबसे of the plot, while composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored सबसे of the खेल before गिरना ill और deferring बाकी tracks to Final Fantasy composer nobuo Uematsu.
The game 's story फ़ॉलो a group of adventurers who travel through time to prevent a global catastrophe.
Square re-released a ported version by Tose in Japan for Sony 's PlayStation in 1999, later repackaged with a Final Fantasy IV port as Final काल्पनिक क्रॉनिकल्स in 2001 for the North American मार्केट.
A slightly enhanced chrono Trigger was released for the Nintendo DS on नवम्बर 25, 2008, in North America and Japan, and went on sale in Australia on February 3, 2009 और in Europe on February 6, 2009.
The game was never released in pal territories before the निन्टेंडो DS version.
Chrono ट्रिगर was a critical और commercial success upon रिलीज and is considered today to be one of the महानतम वीडियो खेल of all time.
Nintendo शक्ति magazine described aspects of Chrono Trigger as क्रांतिकारी, सहित its अनेक endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on अक्षर विकास, unique battle system, and detailed graphics.
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling game of 1995, और the game 's snes और PlayStation iterations have shipped 2.65 million copies as of March 2003.
The version for the Nintendo DS बेची 790,000 copies as of March 2009.
Chrono Trigger was भी ported to mobile फोन, Virtual कंसोल, the PlayStation Network ( तभी in the USA ), iOS devices, and एंड्रॉइड डिवाइस.
Goat cheese
बकरी cheese, or chèvre ( from the French word for बकरी ), is cheese made out of the milk of बकरियों.
Hyperthermia is elevated body तापमान due to failed thermoregulation that occurs when a देह produces or absorbs अधिक ऊष्मा than it dissipates.
Extreme temperature elevation then becomes a medical emergency requiring तात्कालिक treatment to prevent विकलांगता or मौत.
The most common causes शामिल ऊष्मा stroke और adverse reactions to drugs.
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive ऊष्मा, or संयोजन of heat और humidity, कि overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a relatively rare side प्रभाव of अनेक drugs, particularly those that affect the central nervous system.
malignant hyperthermia is a rare complication of some प्रकार of general एनेस्थीसिया.
अतिताप can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices और may be used in the treatment of some kinds of cancer and अन्य शर्तें, most commonly in संयोजन with radiotherapy.
Hyperthermia differs from fever in that the body 's temperature नियत point remains unchanged.
The opposite is hypothermia, which occurs when the तापमान drops below कि required to maintain normal metabolism.
Belize, is a country located on the northeastern coast of Central America.
It is the only country in the क्षेत्रफल where English is the official language, although Kriol and स्पेनी are more commonly spoken.
Belize is bordered on the north by मैक्सिको, to the दक्षिण and west by Guatemala and to the ईस्ट by the Caribbean Sea.
Its mainland is about long and wide.
With of land and a population of only 312,698 निवासियों ( 2010 जनसांख्यिकी ), बेलीज़ possesses the न्यूनतम population density in Central America.
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the second उच्चतम in the region and एक of the highest in the पश्चिमी hemisphere.
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and समुद्री species, and its diversity of ecosystems give it a key place within the globally significant Mesoamerican biological Corridor.
Belize has a diverse society, comprising many cultures and languages.
it is the only nation in the region with a अंग्रेजों औपनिवेशिक heritage, but as a part of the Western caribbean Zone, it भी shares a common heritage with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean देशों.
In सामान्य, Belize is considered to be a Central American और Caribbean nation with strong ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America.
Belize is a member of the caribbean Community ( CARICOM ), the Community of Latin अमरीकी and Caribbean States ( CELAC ), and सेंट्रल अमरीकी संयोजन प्रणाली ( SICA ).
Belize is ज्ञात for its September Celebrations, and is the birthplace of चबाने gum and punta Rock.
the `` Betsy Ross '' flag
A `` Betsy Ross '' flag flying outside San Francisco City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the ध्वज of the संयुक्त States, popularly attributed to Betsy रॉस, using the common motifs of alternating red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
The flag was designed दौरान the American क्रान्ति and सुविधाएँ 13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive विशेषता of the Ross flag is the arrangement of the stars in a circle.
Although the Betsy Ross story is accepted by most Americans, कुछ flag historians and revisionists do not accept the Betsy रॉस design as the first American flag.
According to the traditional account, the original ध्वज was made in June 1776, when a small committee—including George वॉशिंगटन, Robert Morris और relative George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need लिये a new American flag.
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the flag, altering the committee 's design by replacing the six-pointed सितारों with five-pointed stars.
जबकि the Betsy रॉस legend is questionable, the flag design is known to have been in उपयोग by 1777 ; Alfred B. Street described it at the आत्मसमर्पण of General Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states.
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. ध्वज known to exist ; जबकि it is not the oldest surviving flag centuries in cloth रूप, its likeness appears on older physical अरबिंदो, namely, the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale.
They depict the circular स्टार arrangement being flown from ship masts and many other places, and thus provide the first ज्ञात historical documentation of the flag 's appearance.
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs उपयोग the बेट्सी Ross flag to represent सेवा to all veterans from the American Revolution to the present day.
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star us flags has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in Washington क्रासिंग the Delaware ) and films, such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna.
the flag continues to be one of the most popular प्रतीकों of the American Revolution.
A purr is a sound made by all species of felids and is a part of cat communication.
It varies between बिल्लियों ( for उदाहरण by loudness and tone ), and from species to species, but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing.
the पद `` purring '' has been used liberally in literature, and it रै been claimed that viverrids ( civet, mongoose, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
Other animals कि have been said to purr are rabbits, squirrels, guinea सूअर, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, elephants, raccoons and gorillas while eating.
however, using a strict definition of purring that continuous sound production must वैकल्पिक between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and usually go on for minutes ), Peters ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive पुनर्विलोकन of the scientific literature, पहुँचे the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( फ़ेलिडाए ) और two species of genets, Genetta tigrina, and most likely also Genetta genetta, had been documented to purr.
the platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia, सहित Tasmania.
साथ with the four species of echidna, it is one of the five extant species of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living प्रतिनिधि of इसके परिवार ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), though a number of related प्रजाति have been मिला in the चट्टान record.
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists जब they first encountered it, साथ some considering it an विस्तृत fraud.
It is one of the few venomous स्तनधारियों, the male platypus having a spur on the हिन्द foot कि delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the पढ़ाई of evolutionary biology और a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a शुभंकर at नेशनल events और is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
the platypus is the animal emblem of the state of New दक्षिण Wales.
Until the early 20th century, it was hunted for its फर, लकिन it is अभी protected throughout its दायरा.
Although captive breeding programmes have था only सीमित कामयाबी and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of प्रदूषण, it is not under any immediate threat.
St. Elizabeth is a village in मिलर County, Missouri, United States.
The population was 336 at the 2010 census.
Wilton is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in Sacramento County, California, United States.
It is part of the sacramento – arden-arcade – Roseville Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The population was 5,363 at the 2010 census, up from 4,551 at the 2000 census.
In human-computer interaction, cut and paste and copy and paste are related commands that प्रस्ताव a user-interface interaction technique for transferring text, data, files or वस्तुएँ from a source to a destination.
Most ubiquitously, users आवश्यकता the क्षमता to cut and paste भाग of plain text.
The cut command removes the चयनित data from its original position, while the copy command creates a duplicate ; in both cases the selected data is placed in a clipboard.
The आंकड़ा in the clipboard is later inserted in the position जहाँ the paste कमांड is issued.
the command names are an interface metaphor आधारित on the शारीरिक procedure used in manuscript editing to create a पेज layout.
This interaction technique has close एसोसिएशन साथ related तकनीकों in graphical user अंतरफलक कि use इंगित devices such as a computer mouse ( by खीचें और drop, for उदाहरण ).
Economic अनुक्रम मात्रा is the order quantity that minimizes total inventory पकड़कर costs और ordering लागत.
It is एक of the oldest शास्त्रीय production scheduling models.
The framework used to determine this अनुक्रम मात्रा is also known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula.
The मॉडल was विकसित by Ford W. Harris in 1913, but R. H. Wilson, a consultant who लागू it extensively, is given credit for his in-depth analysis.
स्टीफन `` स्टीवी '' रे Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) थी an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, और record निर्माता.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, Vaughan is बेहतरीन known as a founding member and leader of दोगुना ट्रबल.
Together with drummer Chris layton और bassist Tommy Shannon, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
साथ a career spanning seven years, vaughan and Double ट्रबल consistently sold आउट concerts while their albums अक्सर went gold.
He थी born और raised in Dallas, Texas, and for a short period of समय lived in ग्राहम, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the गिटार at age seven और formed अनेक bands कि occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career, joining groups ऐसे as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
in 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band that eventually evolved into Double ट्रबल and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan और Double Trouble performed at the Montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and जैक्सन browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to खेल on his upcoming studio एल्बम Let 's नृत्य, while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los एंजिल्स to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran रिकार्ड producer जॉन Hammond Sr. और released their debut album, Texas बाढ़ in June of that साल.
बाद successful touring, the group released the एल्बम, Could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 ) और Soul to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of जिससे प्रदर्शित new keyboardist रीज़ Wynans.
Although उसके career had progressed सफलतापूर्वक, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in अटलांटा, Georgia to give up a cocaine और दारू habit and लौटे to touring with the band.
In June 1989, in Step was released and earned them a Grammy Award for बेहतरीन Contemporary ब्लूज़ Performance.
on August 27, 1990, Vaughan was मारे in a helicopter crash following a performance in East Troy, Wisconsin.
vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was derived from a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues संगीतकारों including अल्बर्ट किंग, Freddie King, ओटिस Rush, and Muddy Waters, और rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and lonnie Mack.
उसके guitar playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales.
He has प्राप्त wide critical मान्यता for his गिटार playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011.
he was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of कीर्ति in 2000 and a memorial प्रतिमा was erected in Austin 's ऑडिटोरियम Shores park.
स्टीवी Ray vaughan is widely considered to be one of the महानतम musicians to come from the state of Texas.
The Las Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft पेय sold in stores, restaurants, और vending machines in every country except क्यूबा and उत्तर Korea.
It is produced by the Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, और is प्रायः referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The coca-cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent आयुर्विज्ञान when it was invented in the late 19th century by John pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought आउट by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to इसके dominance of the संसार soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
the company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, जो hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, produce finished product in डिब्बे और bottles इससे the concentrate in combination with filtered water और sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail स्टोर्स और vending machines.
ऐसे bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल Coca-Cola bottler in North अमेरिका and western Europe.
the Coca-Cola Company भी sells concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and food service वितरकों.
The coca-cola Company has, on अवसर, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name.
the most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, आहार Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and खास संस्करण with नीबू, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola थी the world 's most valuable brand.
Barry लुई larkin ( born April 28, 1964 ) is a retired Major League Baseball खिलाड़ी.
Larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from 1986 to 2004 and was एक of the pivotal players on the 1990 Reds ' संसार Series championship team.
Larkin was elected to the नेशनल Baseball Hall of Fame in January 2012 and थी inducted on July 22.
Larkin is considered एक of the शीर्ष players of his era, winning nine Silver Slugger awards and three Gold Glove awards.
he was selected to the Major लीग All-Star Game twelve times, and थी elected the 1995 National लीग सबसे मूल्यवान Player.
brasília ( ) is the संघीय capital of Brazil और the seat of government of the Federal District.
Administratively, the city is located in the Federal District जिससे is in the Central-West Region.
physically, it is located in the Brazilian Highlands.
It has a population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil.
However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at छठे in population.
Brasília is the largest नगर in the world that did not मौजूद at the शुरूआत of the 20th century.
Brasília रै the fifth largest जीडीपी among लैटिन अमरीकी cities और the third in Brazil.
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US dollars or €23,000 euros ), the नगर 's per capita income is the highest among ब्राज़ील 's largest cities.
as the national capital, brasília is the seat of all three branches of the federal सरकारी of Brazil.
The city भी hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies.
Planning नीतियों such as the location of residential buildings around expansive शहरी क्षेत्रों, as खूब as building the city around विशाल avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big शहरों in the 20th सदी.
the city 's डिज़ाइन divides it into numbered blocks as खूब as सेक्टर for specified activities, such as the Hotel Sector, the Banking Sector or the Embassy सेक्टर.
Brasília hosts 124 विदेशी embassies.
The city थी planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner, ऑस्कर Niemeyer as the principal architect and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape पंक्तियां.
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's संसार hertitage List due to its architecture.
On April 22, 1960, it formally became Brazil 's national capital.
Viewed from above, the प्रमुख portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly.
The city is commonly referred to as Capital Federal, or simply bsb.
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those नहीं born in the city but who migrated there बाद it was established ).
In local usage, the शब्द `` Brasília '' usually refers तभी to the First प्रशासनिक Region ( RA I ) within the Federal ज़िला ( Distrito Federal ), where the most important government buildings are located.
Brasília रै a unique status in ब्राज़ील, as it is an administrative division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil.
Nationally, the term is almost always used synonymously साथ the Federal District, which constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit, analogous to a state.
Several `` satellite cities '' exist which are also part of the Federal District.
Brasília International Airport is the प्रमुख विमानक्षेत्र in brasília, connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities और many international destinations.
it is the third सबसे important airport in Brazil, in terms of passengers and वायुयान movements.
Personifications of Germany, France, Russia, Austria-Hungary, and the United Kingdom attempting to keep the lid on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general यूरोपीय war.
वे were successful in 1912 and 1913 but किया not सफल in in 1914.
The causes of World War I, which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918, included many factors, such as the conflicts और दुश्मनी of the four दशकों leading up to the war.
सैन्यवाद, alliances, imperialism, and nationalism played प्रमुख roles in the conflict as well.
The immediate origins of the war, however, lay in the decisions taken by कूटनीतिज्ञों और सेनापतियों during the संकट of 1914, casus belli for which was the assassination of Archduke फ्रांज Ferdinand ( the archduke of Austria Hungary ) and his बीवी Sophie by Gavrilo princip, an irredentist Serb.
The संकट came after a long and मुश्किल series of diplomatic clashes between the Great शक्तियां ( Italy, France, Germany, the British Empire, the Austria-Hungarian साम्राज्य and रूस ) over European और colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high.
In turn these राजनयिक clashes can be traced to changes in the संतुलन of power in Europe since 1867.
The more immediate cause for the war was tensions over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed with सर्बिया and Russia for territory and influence in the प्रदेश and they pulled the rest of the Great Powers into the conflict through their various alliances and treaties.
Although the chain of events unleashed by the हत्या triggered the war, the war 's origins go deeper, involving नेशनल राजनीती, cultures, economics, and a complex वेब of alliances and counterbalances that had developed between the various European powers since 1870.
Some of the most important long term or structural कल्याणकारी are : the growth of nationalism आरपार Europe, unresolved territorial disputes, an intricate system of alliances, the perceived breakdown of the balance of शक्ति in Europe, convoluted and fragmented governance, the arms races of the previous decades, previous military planning, imperial and colonial फंसने for माल, power and prestige, and आर्थिक and सैन्य फंसने in उद्योग and trade – e.g., the Pig War between Austria and Serbia.
अन्य causes that came into play दौरान the राजनयिक crisis कि preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the German belief that the संयुक्त किंगडम would remain neutral ) and देरी और misunderstandings in diplomatic communications.
the various categories of स्पष्टीकरण for World War i correspond to different historians ' overall methods.
Most historians and popular commentators include causes from more than one category of स्पष्टीकरण to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war.
the deepest distinction among ये खाते is between stories that see it as the inevitable and predictable outcome of certain factors, and those that describe it as an arbitrary और unfortunate mistake.
In attributing कल्याणकारी लिये the war, historians और academics था to सौदे with an unprecedented बाढ़ of memoirs और official documents, released as each country शामिल आजमाया to avoid blame for starting the war.
Early रिलीज of सूचना by governments, विशेषकर those released for use by the `` Commission on the Responsibility of the लेखक of the War '' were shown to be incomplete and biased.
in addition some दस्तावेज़, especially diplomatic cables between Russia and France, were found to have been doctored.
Even in later decades however, when much अधिक information had been released, historians from the same culture have महरूम shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
Johnson 's new चार्ट of national emblems, published c. 1868.
The large flags shown in the corners हैं the 37-star ध्वज of the संयुक्त States ( flown 1867-1877 ), the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom, the Russian इम्पीरियल Standard, and the French tricolore with inset इम्पीरियल Eagle.
Various other ध्वज flown by ships are shown.
The ध्वज of Cuba is labelled `` Cuban ( so called ) ``.
The Chinese dragon on the Flag of China was drawn mistakenly as a western dragon.
A नेशनल flag is a flag that symbolizes a country.
The ध्वज is flown by the सरकारी, but usually can also be flown by citizens of the country.
दोनो पब्लिक और private buildings such as schools and courthouses may fly the नेशनल flag.
In some countries, the national flags are only flown from non-military buildings on निश्चित ध्वज days.
There हैं three distinct types of national flag for use on land, और three for use at sea, though many countries use एकसमान designs लिये अनेक ( and sometimes all ) of these प्रकार of flag.
The अमरीकी Civil युद्ध ( acw ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil युद्ध ( see नामकरण ), was a civil war लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) और several Southern slave राज्य that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The युद्ध had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national एकता and guaranteeing rights to the freed स्लेव began.
in the 1860 अध्यक्षीय election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
Outgoing लोकतांत्रिक President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता declared उसके administration would not initiate सिविल war.
Eight remaining स्लेव states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a सुलह, और both sides prepared for युद्ध.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` किंग Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none किया and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब Confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South कैरोलिना.
Lincoln पुकारा for each state to provide सैनिकों to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
the Union soon controlled the border states और established a naval blockade that crippled the दक्षिणी economy.
The पूर्वी Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended साथ Confederate retreat at the Battle of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, तब much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure साथ the way.
The Union marshaled the संसाधन and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, और could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate फौज failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The American Civil War थी one of the earliest true industrial wars.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation और खाना supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of सब Southern white males aged 18–40.
Norrie disease is a genetic disorder that primarily affects the eye and almost सदा लीड to blindness.
In addition to the जन्मजात ocular symptoms, some patients suffer from a progressive hearing loss starting mostly in their 2nd decade of life, while another portion may be mentally challenged.
मरीजों साथ Norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the विद्यार्थियों appear white when लाइट is shone on them ), along with other developmental issues in the eye, such as shrinking of the globe and the wasting दूर of the iris.
around 30–50 % of them will also have developmental delay/ mental retardation, psychotic-like सुविधाएँ, incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities.
सबसे patients are born with normal hearing ; however, the onset of hearing loss is very आम in early adolescence.
About 15 % of the मरीजों हैं estimated to develop all the सुविधाएँ of the बीमारी.
The बीमारी affects almost only male infants at birth or soon after birth, because the disease is inherited x-linked recessive.
Only in very rare cases, females have been diagnosed साथ Norrie बीमारी as well.
The exact incidence क्रमांक is unknown ; only a few सौ cases have been reported so far.
It is a very rare disorder that is नहीं associated with any specific ethnic or racial groups.
A contract is an agreement having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal दायित्वों between them.
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal क्षमता who exchange `` consideration '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be किया in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
the remedy लिये breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or विशिष्ट performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies award the पार्टी at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance क्षतिपूर्ति, as in promissory estoppel.
The पार्टियों may be natural persons or juristic persons.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or होगा not occur.
The word promise can be used as a विधिक synonym लिये contract, although care is required as a वादा may not have the full standing of a अनुबंध, as when it is an अनुबंध बगैर विचार.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, including differences in common law compared to civil law, the impact of received law, विशेषकर from England in common विधि countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract विधि for example, there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level, और an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there हैं 6 international instruments or conventions which हैं applicable लिये international dealings, ऐसे as the United Nations Convention on Contracts लिये the International बिक्री of Goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side Web application framework designed for वेब development to उपज dynamic Web पृष्ठों.
It was developed by microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites, web अनुप्रयोग और web सेवाएं.
It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the.NET Framework, and is the successor to Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology.
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language runtime ( CLR ), allowing प्रोग्रामर्स to लिखें ASP.NET code using any समर्थित.NET भाषा.
The ASP.NET SOAP एक्सटेंशन फ्रेमवर्क allows ASP.NET components to process SOAP messages.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, also known as lysergide ( INN ) and colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline family, well known for इसके psychological effects which can शामिल altered thinking processes, closed and खोलें eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences, as खूब as for its key role in 1960s counterculture.
It is प्रयुक्त mainly as an entheogen, recreational drug, और as an agent in psychedelic therapy.
LSD is non-addictive, is नहीं known to कारण brain damage, और has अत्यधिक low toxicity relative to dose.
however, adverse psychiatric प्रतिक्रियाएँ such as anxiety, paranoia, and delusions are possible.
एलएसडी was first synthesized by अल्बर्ट Hofmann in 1938 from ergotamine, a chemical derived by Arthur stoll from ergot, a grain fungus that typically grows on rye.
The short form `` LSD '' comes इससे its early कोड name LSD-25, which is an abbreviation for the German `` lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
LSD is संवेदनशील to oxygen, ultraviolet light, and chlorine, especially in solution, हालांकि its potency may last for years if it is stored away from light and नमी at low temperature.
In pure रूप it is a colorless, odorless, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically वितरित orally, प्रायः on a substrate such as absorbent blotter paper, a sugar cube, or gelatin.
In its liquid form, it can भी be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
एलएसडी is very potent, साथ 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) being the threshold dose.
New experiments साथ LSD started in 2009 for the first time in 40 years.
introduced by Sandoz Laboratories, with trade-name Delysid, as a ड्रग with various psychiatric uses in 1947, LSD quickly became a therapeutic agent कि appeared to show great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( सीआईए ) thought the drug might be applicable to mind control and chemical warfare ; the agency 's mkultra research program propagated the drug among young servicemen और students.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the Western world during the 1960s led to a political firestorm that resulted in इसके निषेध.
Currently, a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation, MAPS, Heffter Research Institute और the Albert Hofmann Foundation—exist to fund, प्रोत्साहित और coordinate शोध into the औषधीय and spiritual uses of एलएसडी and सम्बन्धित psychedelics.
The United States Navy 's Sea, Air, जमीन Teams, commonly known as the Navy SEALs, are the U.S. नेवी 's principal special operations force और a भाग of the Naval खास Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command.
`` मुहर '' is always capitalized in reference to सदस्यों of the Naval Special warfare community.
the acronym is derived from their capacity to operate at sea, in the एयर, and on land.
SEALs are male members of the United States Navy.
An exchange कार्यक्रम with the Coast गार्ड, which graduated तीन coast guardsmen as SEALs, was suspended in 2011.
The CIA 's अत्यधिक गुपचुप Special Activities प्रभाग ( SAD ) and अधिक specifically its elite खास परिचालन Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams.
Joint Navy seals and CIA operations go back to the famed MACV-SOG during the Vietnam War.
This सहयोग still exists today and is seen in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in the finding and killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.
World population estimates इससे 1800 to 2100, आधारित on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, ग्रीन ) and US Census ब्यूरो historical estimates ( black ).
वास्तविक recorded जनसांख्यिकी figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना humans on धरती.
As of today, it is estimated to number billion by the United States जनसांख्यिकी Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a पृथक estimate by the United राष्ट्र Population निधि, it reached this milestone on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
the world जनसांख्यिकी रै experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The उच्चतम rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly दौरान the 1950s, and for a longer period दौरान the 1960s and 1970s.
the growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
कुल annual births यहूद highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially निरंतर at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths क्रमांक 56 million प्रति year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near भविष्य ( but a steady decline in the population विकास rate ), with the global जनसांख्यिकी expected to पहुँचें between 7.5 और 10.5 billion by 2050.
विभिन्न longer-term estimates predict further विकास, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Memphis is a नगर in the southwestern corner of the U.S. राज्य of Tennessee, और the county seat of Shelby County.
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw Bluff, south of the संगम of the Wolf and Mississippi नदियाँ.
Memphis था a population of 672,277 in 2011 बनाना it the largest city in the state of Tennessee, the largest city on the Mississippi River, the third largest in the Southeastern संयुक्त States, and the 20th largest in the United States.
The greater Memphis metropolitan area, सहित adjacent counties in Mississippi और अरकंसास, था a 2010 population of 1,316,100.
This makes Memphis the second largest महानगर area in Tennessee, surpassed only by metropolitan Nashville, which has overtaken मेम्फिस in recent years.
Memphis is the youngest of Tennessee 's प्रमुख शहरों.
A निवासी of Memphis is referred to as a Memphian, and the Memphis region is known, particularly to media outlets, as `` Memphis & the Mid-South ``.
The Cattenom नाभिकीय Power Plant in France.
France produces around three quarters of its electricity by नाभिकीय power.
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in Germany.
Chancellor एंजेला Merkel 's coalition घोषित on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear विपत्ति.
Currently, 68 reactors are under construction in 15 countries.
Nuclear power स्टेशन operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year, although according to the World Nuclear Association, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 और 2009, only five दरअसल आए on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power.
As of जून 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, liechtenstein, ध्वज, Malaysia, माल्टा, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Skeletal muscles homo sapiens
इस is a तालिका of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, मिला on both sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the सटीक number is difficult to define because different sources समूह muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a सिंगल muscle or as several muscles.
Examples range इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of groups which include muscles relating to the head and गर्दन, muscles of the धड़ or trunk, muscles of the अपर limbs, and मांसपेशियां of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of each मांसपेशी from the मानक anatomical position.
In other positions, other actions may be performed.
A reenactment of a battle at Fort Foster, 1837 ( at Hillsborough River State Park )
The Seminole Wars, also known as the Florida Wars, were three conflicts in Florida between the Seminole — the collective name given to the amalgamation of various groups of native Americans और ब्लैक people who settled in Florida in the early 18th century — and the संयुक्त राज्य फौज.
The First Seminole War was from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ), the Second seminole War from 1835 to 1842, और the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858.
The first conflict with the Seminoles arose out of tensions relating to सामान्य एंड्रयू Jackson 's attack and destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816.
Jackson भी attacked the Spanish at Pensacola.
Ultimately, the Spanish Crown ceded the colony to United States rule.
Orono is a town in Penobscot County, Maine, United States.
It was first settled in 1774 and named in honor of Chief Joseph Orono of the Penobscot Nation.
it is home to The University of Maine.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 10,362 at the 2010 census.
दृश्य of the pyramid
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel and casino on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada.
The 30-story hotel, स्वामित्व और operated by MGM Resorts International, has a casino with over 2,000 स्लॉट machines और 87 table games.
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it has a new, अत्यधिक modernized, and contemporary डिज़ाइन and contains a total of 4,400 rooms, including 442 suites, lining the आंतरिक walls of a pyramid style tower और within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were निर्मित as later additions.
The होटल is named after the city of Luxor ( ancient Thebes ) in Egypt.
लक्सर is the second largest hotel in Las Vegas ( the largest being the MGM Grand ) और the eighth largest in the world.
as of 2010, the Luxor रै a 4 Key rating इससे the ग्रीन Key Eco-Rating Program, which evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations.
A pilot experiment, also called a पायलट study, is a small scale preliminary study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, time, लागत, प्रतिकूल events, and effect आकार ( सांख्यिकीय variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project.
Pilot अध्ययन, therefore, may not be appropriate for मामला studies.
The Los Angeles आग Department ( lafd ) is the agency that provides fire सुरक्षा and emergency चिकित्सा सेवाएं for the city of Los Angeles.
it may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles City Fire Department to फर्क it from the Los Angeles County Fire विभाग.
The एकड़ is a ईकाई of area used in the इम्पीरियल and u.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller than an American football field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable exceptions include the United States, Australia, Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United किंगडम, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
it is still used, to some extent, in Canada.
The international प्रतीक of the acre is ac, and is defined as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ आज is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre.
In the United States both the international एकड़ and the slightly different US survey acre are in use.
The most common use of the acre is to माप tracts of जमीन.
One international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the Middle आयु, an acre थी the amount of land that could be plowed in one दिन with a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a Native American people and its language:
Pawnee लोगों
Pawnee language
Pawnee is भी the name of several places in the United States:
Pawnee, Illinois
pawnee, कान्सास
pawnee City, Nebraska
pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee, Texas
Pawnee National Grassland, Colorado
Pawnee Township ( disambiguation )
Pawnee County ( disambiguation )
Pawnee may also refer to:
Piper PA-25 Pawnee, agricultural aircraft
Hiller VZ-1 Pawnee, experimental aircraft
Pawnee, Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional setting of the एनबीसी television comedy Parks and Recreation.
Broca 's and wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings use शब्द to communicate ideas and feelings, और how ऐसे संचार are processed and understood.
यूँ it is कैसा the brain creates and understands language.
Most recent theories consider that this process is carried out entirely by and inside the brain.
This is considered one of the most characteristic abilities of the इंसान species - perhaps the सबसे characteristic.
However very little is known about it and there is huge पैमाना for research on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to तिथि on the विषय रै come from patients who have suffered कुछ type of significant head injury, whether external ( wounds, bullets ) or internal ( strokes, tumors, degenerative diseases ).
Studies have shown that most of the language प्रसंस्करण functions are carried आउट in the cerebral cortex.
The essential फलन of the cortical भाषा areas is symbolic प्रतिनिधित्व.
Even though language exists in different forms, all of them are based on सांकेतिक representation.
The Bugatti veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim, फ़्रांस by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the world, साथ a top speed of.
The original संस्करण has a शीर्ष गति of.
it was named car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear.
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car चलित सब साल पुरस्कार in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on औसत a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by Jozef kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the engineering work being conducted अंतर्गत the guidance of engineering chief वुल्फगांग Schreiber.
A number of special variants have been produced.
in दिसम्बर 2010, bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and इंटीरियर्स colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator अनुप्रयोग on the marque 's आधिकारिक website.
DVD is an optical डिस्क भंडार format, invented and developed by Philips, सोनी, Toshiba, and Panasonic in 1995.
DVDs प्रस्ताव higher भंडार क्षमता than compact discs while having the same dimensions.
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using सांचा machines that physically stamp data onto the DVD.
Such discs are ज्ञात as dvD- ROM, because data can तभी be पढ़ा और not written nor erased.
रिक्त recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a dvd recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM. rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW, DVD+RW, and DVD-RAM ) can be recorded and erased multiple times.
DVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and in DVD-Audio consumer digital audio format, as well as for authoring AVCHD discs.
DVDs containing other प्रकार of information may be referred to as DVD data discs.
कया Chilli Wants is an अमरीकी reality series on VH1 starring Chilli, one-third of the Grammy Award -winning r & B तिकड़ी TLC.
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the help of tionna T. smalls, an author and relationship coach.
The series premiered on April 11, 2010, and रै since been renewed लिये a second season.
the second season premiered on संडे, जनवरी 2, 2011.
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born अक्तूबर 8, 1985 ), known by his stage name Bruno Mars, is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter and record producer.
Raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a family of musicians, Mars began making music at a young age and performed in विभिन्न musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
He graduated इससे high school and then moved to Los Angeles, California, to pursue a musical career.
Mars produced songs for other artists, joining production team The Smeezingtons.
Mars had an unsuccessful stint with Motown रिकॉर्ड, but तब signed साथ Atlantic in 2009.
He became recognized as a सोलो artist after lending his vocals and co-writing the hooks for the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B, and `` Billionaire `` by travie McCoy.
He also co-wrote the hits `` Right Round `` by Flo Rida featuring Ke $ ha, और `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan.
In October 2010, he released his debut album, doo-wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the विश्वव्यापी number-one singles `` Just the Way You Are `` and `` ग्रेनेड ``, the album peaked at number three on the Billboard 200.
Mars was nominated for seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy पुरस्कार, winning Best Male Pop गायन Performance for `` Just the Way You Are ''.
His second studio album, Unorthodox Jukebox, was released on December 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide variety of styles and influences, and contains elements of अनेक musical genres.
he रै worked with an assortment of artists from various genres.
As a child, he was highly influenced by कलाकारों such as Little Richard, Elvis प्रेस्ली and Michael जैक्सन and would often impersonate these artists from a young age.
Mars also incorporates रेगी - and Motown -inspired sounds into उसके work.
Worldwide, मंगल became the best-selling digital कलाकार in 2011.
he had three singles in the top ten, सहित first place with `` बस the Way You Are '', which sold 12.5 million copies.
Mars जीती Best International पुरूष Solo Artist at the 2012 BRIT Awards.
Bruno Mars रै sold 6 लाख albums and 40 million singles worldwide as a singer.
Althought as a song-writer, producer and singer उसके total single download बिक्री surpass 100 लाख worldwide.
Bust of Zeus, otricoli ( sala Rotonda, Museo Pio-Clementino, Vatican ).
Greek mythology is the देह of myths और teachings कि belong to the ancient Greeks, concerning their gods and नायक, the nature of the world, and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices.
It was a part of the religion in ancient Greece and is part of religion in आधुनिक Greece and around the world, known as Hellenismos.
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the धार्मिक and political institutions of Ancient Greece और इसके civilization, and to लाभ understanding of the nature of myth-making itself.
यूनानी mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives, and implicitly in Greek representational arts, ऐसे as vase-paintings and votive उपहार.
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods, goddesses, नायक, heroines, and पौराणिक creatures.
These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition ; today the यूनानी myths are ज्ञात primarily इससे Greek literature.
The oldest known Greek साहित्यिक स्त्रोत, होमर 's epic poems Iliad and ओडिसी, focus on कार्यक्रम surrounding the Trojan War.
दो poems by Homer 's near contemporary hesiod, the theogony और the Works and Days, contain accounts of the genesis of the world, the succession of दैवी rulers, the succession of human ages, the origin of human woes, and the उत्पत्ति of sacrificial practices.
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns, in fragments of epic poems of the Epic साईकिल, in lyric poems, in the works of the tragedians of the पांचवां सदी BC, in writings of विद्वानों और poets of the Hellenistic Age, and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias.
Archaeological findings provide a principal सोर्स of विवरण about Greek mythology, with gods और नायक featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts.
ज्यामितीय designs on pottery of the आठवीं सदी BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles.
In the succeeding Archaic, Classical, and Hellenistic अवधि, Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear, supplementing the existing साहित्यिक प्रमाण.
Greek mythology रै had an extensive influence on the culture, arts, and literature of Western civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language.
कवियों and कलाकारों from ancient times to the present have derived प्रेरणा इससे Greek mythology and have discovered contemporary significance और प्रासंगिकता in the themes.
Mouth & MacNeal in 1971
Mouth & MacNeal was a pop duo from the Netherlands.
They हैं best known लिये their million selling recording of `` How Do You Do ``.
The Boise State broncos football program represents Boise State University in college football and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) of Division I as a member of the पहाड़ West Conference.
They हैं currently led by head coach Chris Petersen and खेल their home games at Bronco Stadium.
The franc ( sign : Fr. or SFr. ; German : Franken, French and Romansh : franc, इतालवी : franco ; code : CHF ) is the करेंसी and legal tender of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein ; it is भी legal tender in the इतालवी exclave Campione d'Italia.
Although not formally विधिक tender in the German exclave Büsingen ( the sole legal currency is the euro ), it is in wide daily use there.
The स्विस नेशनल Bank issues banknotes और the federal mint Swissmint issues coins.
the Swiss franc is the only version of the franc still issued in यूरोपीय.
The छोटी denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a Rappen ( Rp. ) in German, centime ( c. ) in French, centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian, and rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
The ISO code of the currency प्रयुक्त by banks and financial institutions is CHF, although `` Fr. '' is used by most businesses and advertisers ; some use SFr. ; the Latinate `` ch '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica.
दिए the different languages used in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, Latin is used for language-neutral inscriptions on the coins.
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin, ( 16 April 188925 दिसम्बर 1977 ) was a British comic actor और filmmaker जो rose to fame in the silent era.
Chaplin became a worldwide icon through उसके screen persona `` the ट्रैम्प `` and is considered one of the most important figures of the फिल्मी industry.
His career spanned अधिक than 75 years, from a child in the Victorian era to close to his death at the आयु of 88, और encompassed both adulation और विवाद.
Raised in London, Chaplin 's childhood was defined by गरीबी and hardship.
He थी sent to a workhouse twice पहले the age of nine ; his father was absent, and his mother was committed to a mental asylum.
Chaplin began performing इससे a young age, touring म्यूज़िक halls and later working as a stage actor and comedian.
at 19 he थी हस्ताक्षरित to the prestigious Fred Karno company, which took him to America.
Chaplin was scouted by the film industry, and made his first appearances in 1914 with keystone Studios.
He soon developed the Tramp persona and formed a विशाल प्रशंसक base.
Chaplin directed his films from an early stage, and जारी to hone उसके craft as he moved to the Essanay, Mutual, and पहला नेशनल corporations.
By 1918, he was one of the most famous men in the world.
in 1919, Chaplin co-founded the वितरण company United Artists, giving उसे complete control over his films.
His first feature-length picture was The Kid ( 1921 ), followed by A Woman of Paris ( 1923 ), The Gold Rush ( 1925 ), और The सर्कस ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s, instead producing City Lights ( 1931 ) and आधुनिक Times ( 1936 ) बगैर dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly राजनैतिक and his next film, The Great Dictator ( 1940 ), satirised एडोल्फ Hitler.
The 1940s थी a decade marked with विवाद for चैपलिन, and his popularity declined rapidly.
he was accused of communist sympathies, while his involvement in a paternity suit and marriages to much younger women यहूद considered scandalous.
an FBI investigation was opened on Chaplin, और he was eventually forced to छोड़ the संयुक्त States and settle in स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
He abandoned the Tramp लिये his later films, which include Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ), limelight ( 1952 ), A King in New York ( 1957 ), and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ).
चैपलिन लिखा, निर्देशित, produced, edited, scored, and स्ट्रक्चर in most of उसके films.
He was a perfectionist, and his वित्तीय स्वतंत्रता meant he often खर्च years on the development and production of a चित्र.
उसके films are characterised by slapstick combined साथ pathos, and often feature the Tramp struggling against adversity.
Many contain social and political themes, as well as autobiographical elements.
In 1972, as भाग of a renewed appreciation for उसके work, Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable प्रभाव he has had in बनाना गति तस्वीरें the art form of इस सदी ''.
He continues to be आयोजित in high regard, with The Gold फटाफट, नगर Lights, Modern Times, and The Great तानाशाह प्रायः ranked among the greatest films of all time.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ), commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood, is the U.S. affiliate of the International Planned parenthood संघ ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing reproductive health and maternal and child health services.
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund, Inc. ( ppaf ) is a related संगठन which lobbies for pro-choice legislation, व्यापक sex education, and access to affordable health care in the United States.
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. प्रदाता of reproductive स्वास्थ्य services, including cancer screening, hiv screening और counseling, contraception, and abortion.
Contraception accounts लिये 35 % of PPFA 's total सेवाएं and abortions account for 3 % ; PPFA conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each साल, among 3 million लोगों served.
The organization रै its roots in Brooklyn, New York, जहाँ Margaret Sanger opened the देश 's first birth-control clinic.
Sanger founded the अमरीकी Birth Control लीग in 1921, which in 1942 became part of the Planned parenthood Federation of America.
Since then, Planned Parenthood has grown to have over 820 clinic locations in the U.S., साथ a total बजट of US $ 1 billion.
PPFA provides an सरणी of services to over three million people in the United राज्य, and supports services for over one million clients outside the United States.
Mens rea is लैटिन for `` अपराधी mind ''.
in criminal law, it is viewed as one of the necessary elements of some crimes.
The standard common law test of criminal liability is प्रायः expressed in the Latin phrase, actus non facit reum nisi mens sit rea, जिससे means `` the act is not culpable जबतक the दिमाग is guilty ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions with due प्रक्रम, there जरूर be an actus reus, or `` guilty act, '' accompanied by some स्तर of mens rea to constitute the crime साथ which the defendant is charged ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ).
As a general rule, criminal liability does not attach to a व्यक्ति who acted with the absence of mental fault.
The एक्सेप्शन is strict liability crimes.
In civil law, it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective mental element to स्थापित liability for breach of contract or tort, for उदाहरण.
However, if a tort is intentionally committed or a अनुबंध is intentionally breached, such intent may increase the scope of liability as well as the माप of damages payable to the plaintiff.
Therefore, पुरुषों rea refers to the mental element of the offence that accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the terms पुरुषों rea and actus reus have been replaced by alternative शब्दावली.
In Australia, लिये example, the elements of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental elements '' ( mens rea ) and `` physical तत्व '' or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ).
This terminology थी adopted to replace the obscurity of the Latin terms with simple and accurate phrasing.
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27, 1822 – जुलाई 23, 1885 ) was the 18th President of the United States ( 1869–1877 ) following his highly successful role as a war general in the second half of the Civil युद्ध.
Under Grant, the Union Army पराजित the Confederate military ; having effectively ended the युद्ध and secession with the आत्मसमर्पण of Robert E. Lee 's army at appomattox.
As president he led the Radical republicans in their effort to eliminate सब vestiges of confederate nationalism and slavery.
परेशान over uncontrolled हिंसा in the South and having desired to protect African American citizenship, President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871.
ग्रान्ट was the first President to establish Civil Service reform having created a two-year federally funded Civil सेवा Commission in 1871.
In terms of foreign policy, Grant revealed an `` unexpected capacity for deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest.
उसके प्रतिष्ठा was marred by उसके repeated defense of corrupt appointees, and by America 's first industrial age economic depression ( called the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) कि dominated उसके second पद.
Although उसके Republican Party split in 1872 with reformers denouncing him, Grant was easily reelected.
By 1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control of every state in the दक्षिण और as he left the White House in March 1877 उसके policies were होने undone.
A career soldier, he graduated from the United राज्य Military Academy at West Point और served in the Mexican–American War.
When the Civil War began in 1861, Grant trained Union volunteer regiments in Illinois.
In 1862, as a general he fought a series of battles and थी promoted to major general after forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a large Confederate army and gaining control of केंटकी और most of Tennessee.
he then led संघ शक्तियां to victory after initial setbacks in the बैटल of Shiloh, कमाई a reputation as an aggressive commander.
In July 1863, after a long, complex campaign, Grant defeated five uncoordinated confederate सेना ( capturing one of उन्हें ) और seized vicksburg.
इस प्रसिद्ध victory gave the Union full control of the Mississippi नदी, split बंद the western Confederacy, and opened the way for अधिक Union triumphs.
After another win at the Battle of चट्टानूगा in late 1863, President Abraham lincoln made him lieutenant सामान्य and commander of all of the Union Armies.
As commanding सामान्य of the फौज, Grant confronted Robert E. Lee in a series of very bloody battles in 1864 known as the Overland अभियान that ended साथ the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg, बाहर the Confederate capital of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant coordinated a series of विनाशकारी अभियान launched by William Tecumseh Sherman, Philip Sheridan, and George Thomas.
Finally breaking through ली 's trenches, the Union Army captured रिचमंड in April 1865.
Lee surrendered his depleted शक्तियां to Grant at Appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed.
हालांकि pro-confederate इतिहासकारों attacked ग्रान्ट as a ruthless butcher who won by brute force, most historians have hailed उसके सैन्य genius.
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President stabilized the nation after the American Civil War and during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed.
As president, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws और लड़ Ku Klux Klan violence.
Grant won passage of the पंद्रहवीं Amendment ; giving constitutional protection for African-American मतदान अधिकारों.
He used the फौज to build the Republican पार्टी in the South, based on black voters, Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` ) and native white supporters ( `` Scalawags. '' )
As a परिणाम, African अमेरिकी were represented in the U.S. Congress for the पहला समय in American history in 1870.
Reformers praised Grant 's भारतीय सलाम policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress, the creation of the Board of भारतीय Commissioners to make reform recommendations, and his enlistment of Quaker Protestants who controlled mid पश्चिमी Indian एजेंसियों, that effectively curbed Congressional patronage.
Grant remained संकल्पित in keeping Indians from being exterminated इससे white settler encroachment or by the u.S. military.
Grant 's reputation as अध्यक्ष by 1875 थी at an all-time high for his previous veto of the Inflation Bill, the ड्योढ़ी of the Resumption of Specie Act, and Secretary bristow 's successful raids that shut bas the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by Secretary of राज्य Hamilton मछली, implemented International Arbitration, settled the Alabama Claims with ब्रिटेन और avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair.
a jukebox is a partially स्वचालित music-playing device, usually a coin-operated यंत्र, कि will play a संरक्षक 's selection from self-contained media.
the classic jukebox रै buttons साथ letters and numbers on them that, when डाला in combination, are used to play a specific selection.
A ड्रग परीक्षण is a तकनीकी विश्लेषण of a biological specimen – for example urine, hair, blood, स्वेद, or oral fluid / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites.
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport or for drugs prohibited by laws, such as cannabis, कोका and heroin.
A `` 10-panel urine screen '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( including methamphetamine )
Barbiturates
Benzodiazepines
Cannabinoids ( THC )
Cocaine
Methadone
Methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine, Morphine, Heroin, Oxycodone, hydrocodone, etc. )
Phencyclidine ( PCP )
Propoxyphene
Saturn v rocket, प्रयुक्त for the अमरीकी manned चंद्र landing मिशन
स्पेस exploration is the discovery and खोजी of outer space by means of space technology.
Physical exploration of space is conducted both by इंसान spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft.
जबकि the observation of objects in space, known as खगोलशास्त्र, predates विश्वसनीय recorded history, it was the विकास of large and relatively efficient rockets दौरान the early 20th century that allowed physical space खोजी to become a reality.
Common rationales for exploring स्पेस include advancing scientific research, uniting different राष्ट्र, ensuring the future survival of humanity और developing सैन्य and रणनीतिक advantages against other countries.
Various criticisms of space exploration हैं sometimes made.
Space exploration has often been प्रयुक्त as a प्रॉक्सी competition for geopolitical rivalries such as the ठंडा War.
The early era of स्पेस exploration was चलित by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the United States, the लॉन्च of the first man-made object to कक्षा the धरती, the USSR 's Sputnik 1, on 4 अक्तूबर 1957, and the first Moon landing by the अमरीकी Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often लिया as the boundaries for this initial period.
The Soviet स्पेस program achieved many of the first milestones, including the first living being in orbit in 1957, the first human spaceflight ( यूरी Gagarin सवार Vostok 1 ) in 1961, the first spacewalk ( by aleksei Leonov ) on 18 कूच 1965, the first automatic लैंडिंग on another celestial body in 1966, and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the first 20 years of exploration, फ़ोकस shifted from one-off flights to renewable हार्डवेयर, such as the Space शटल program, और from competition to cooperation as with the International Space Station ( ISS ).
With the substantial completion of the iss following STS-133 in कूच 2011, plans for space exploration by the यूएसए remain in flux.
नक्षत्र, a Bush Administration program for a return to the Moon by 2020 थी judged inadequately funded and unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009.
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the development of the काबिलियत for crewed मिशन beyond low धरती कक्षा ( leo ), envisioning extending the operation of the iss beyond 2020, transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from NASA to the private sector, and developing technology to enable missions to परे leo, such as Earth/Moon L1, the Moon, Earth/Sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and Phobos or मंगल orbit.
as of March 2011, the US Senate and House of Representatives are स्टिल working towards a compromise NASA funding bill, which होगा संभवतः terminate Constellation and fund development of a भारी लिफ्ट launch vehicle ( HLLV ).
In the 2000s, the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of China initiated a successful manned spaceflight program, while the यूरोपीय संघ, Japan, and India have also planned future मानवयुक्त space missions.
China, Russia, Japan, and India have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st century, while the European Union has advocated manned missions to दोनो the Moon and Mars during the 21st century.
From the 1990s onwards, private interests began promoting space tourism and तब private space exploration of the Moon ( see google चंद्र X Prize ).
John Calvin Coolidge, Jr. ( July 4, 1872January 5, 1933 ) was the 30th President of the United States ( 1923–1929 ).
A रिपब्लिकन lawyer इससे Vermont, Coolidge worked his रास्ता up the सीढ़ियाँ of मैसाचुसेट्स state politics, आखिरकार बनने राज्यपाल of that state.
उसके conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him into the नेशनल spotlight and gave him a reputation as a man of निर्णायक कार्रवाई.
Soon after, he थी elected as the 29th Vice अध्यक्ष in 1920 and succeeded to the Presidency upon the अचानक death of Warren G. Harding in 1923.
Elected in his अपना right in 1924, he gained a reputation as a small-government conservative, और भी as a man who said बहुत little.
Coolidge लौटी public confidence in the White हाउस after the scandals of उसके predecessor 's administration, and left office साथ considerable popularity.
As a Coolidge biographer put it, `` He embodied the स्पिरिट and hopes of the middle class, could interpret their longings और express their opinions.
That he did represent the genius of the average is the सबसे convincing proof of his strength. ''
कुछ later criticized Coolidge as part of a general criticism of laissez-faire government.
His reputation underwent a renaissance during the Ronald Reagan प्रशासन, but the परम assessment of his presidency is still divided between those who approve of उसके reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the संघीय government चाहिए be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy.
Espresso is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a small amount of nearly boiling water अंतर्गत pressure through finely मैदान coffee beans.
Espresso often रै a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods, a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids, and crema ( meaning cream, but being a सन्दर्भ to the foam with a creamy texture कि फ़ॉर्म as a result of the दबाव ).
As a result of the pressurized brewing process the flavors and chemicals in a typical cup of espresso are बहुत concentrated.
Espresso is the base for other drinks, ऐसे as a latte, cappuccino, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
Espresso has more कैफीन per unit आवाज़ than most beverages, but the usual serving size is smaller—a ठेठ 60 mL ( 2 us fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, little less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) कप of drip-brewed coffee.
ब्रायन कैथ Kelly ( born अक्तूबर 25, 1961 ) is an American football coach and former player.
He is currently the head football coach लिये the Notre Dame Fighting आयरिश, a position he has held चूंकि दिसम्बर 2009.
Kelly was previously सिर coach at Grand Valley State University ( 1991–2003 ), सेंट्रल Michigan University ( 2004–2006 ), and विश्वविद्यालयों of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ).
A अनुबंध is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` प्रस्ताव '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity जो exchange `` विचार '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of कुछ or all of these elements may be done in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for उल्लंघन of contract can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be natural persons or juristic persons.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something होगा or will not occur.
the word promise can be प्रयुक्त as a legal पर्याय लिये contract, although care is required as a promise may नहीं have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an अनुबंध बगैर consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from एक jurisdiction to another, including differences in आम law compared to civil law, the impact of received law, विशेषकर from England in common law countries, and of विधि codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian अनुबंध Law for example, वहीँ are 40 relevant acts which प्रभाव on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) स्तर, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the राज्य of NSW.
In जोड there are 6 international instruments or conventions जिससे हैं applicable for international dealings, ऐसे as the United Nations सम्मेलन on Contracts for the International Sale of goods.
Sidney Patrick crosby, ONS ( born August 7, 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National हॉकी League ( NHL ).
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins out of the क्यूबेक प्रमुख Junior Hockey League ( QMJHL ).
दौरान his two-year major junior career with the Rimouski Océanic, he earned back-to-back CHL Player of the Year awards and led his club to the 2005 Memorial Cup फाइनल.
Nicknamed `` The Next One ``, he was one of the most highly regarded ड्राफ्ट picks in hockey history, leading अनेक to refer to the 2005 Draft Lottery as the `` sidney Crosby Sweepstakes ''.
in his first NHL season, Crosby finished sixth in लीग स्कोरिंग with 102 points ( 39 goals, 63 assists ) and was a runner-up for the calder Memorial Trophy ( जीती by सिकंदर Ovechkin ).
By his दूसरी season, he led the NHL साथ 120 points ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to capture the Art रॉस Trophy, becoming the youngest player and the only teenager to win a scoring title in any major उत्तर American sports league.
That same ऋतु, Crosby also won the हार्ट Memorial Trophy as the पेशेवर Hockey Writers Association 's choice for most valuable खिलाड़ी and the Lester B. पियर्सन Award as the एनएचएल Players Association 's चुनाव for most outstanding player, becoming the seventh player in एनएचएल history to earn सब three awards in एक साल.
Crosby started the 2007–08 ऋतु साथ the team 's captaincy and subsequently led them to the 2008 Stanley Cup फाइनल, जहाँ वे were defeated by the Detroit Red Wings in छह games.
The Penguins लौटे to the फाइनल विरूद्ध Detroit the following year and won in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest captain in NHL history to win the Stanley Cup.
In the 2009–10 season, crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying उसे साथ स्टीवन Stamkos for the प्रक्षेपास्त्र Richard Trophy as the league-leader ; with 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, Crosby received the Mark Messier Leadership Award.
in 2010–11, Crosby sustained a concussion as a result of hits to the head in back-to-back games.
the injury left उसे sidelined for ten and a half months.
However, after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season, crosby 's concussion-like symptoms लौटे in December 2011, and he did नहीं return until mid-march 2012.
Internationally, Crosby has represented Canada in numerous tournaments लिये the country 's junior and men 's teams.
After competing in the 2003 U-18 Junior World कप, he represented Canada in back-to-back IIHF World u20 Championships, जीतना silver in 2004 and gold in 2005.
At the 2006 iihf World Championship, he led the tournament in scoring, while also earning शीर्ष Forward and All-Star Team honours.
चार years later, Crosby was named to Team कनाडा for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver.
playing the United राज्य in the gold medal game, he scored the game-winning लक्ष्य in overtime.
a United States cent, also known as a पैनी.
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) और its longer संस्करण `` put my two सेंट in '' is an United States ( US ) idiomatic अभिव्यक्ति, taken from the original English मुहावरा expression : to put in `` my दो pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
It is प्रयुक्त to preface the tentative stating of one’s राय.
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting इसके मान is only two cents, a very small amount – the user of the phrase hopes to lessen the प्रभाव of a possibly statement, प्रर्दशित politeness and humility.
However, it is also sometimes used with irony when expressing a strongly लगा opinion.
The phrase is also प्रयुक्त out of habit to preface uncontentious opinions.
For example:
The Chinese सिविल War was a civil war in China fought between शक्तियां loyal to the government of the Republic of China led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of चीन ( CPC ).
the war began in April 1927, amidst the Northern Expedition, and essentially ended when major क्रियाशील battles ceased in 1950.
The conflict eventually resulted in दो de facto states, the Republic of चीन ( ROC ) in Taiwan and the लोगों 's Republic of चीन ( PRC ) in mainland China, both claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
The war represented an वैचारिक split ( Left vs. Right ) between the Communist cpc, and the kmt 's brand of Nationalism.
The civil war continued intermittently until late 1937, when the two parties formed a Second United सामने to counter a जापानी invasion.
China 's full-scale civil war resumed in 1946, a साल बाद the end of hostilities with जापानी.
After four more years, 1950 saw the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly founded People 's गणतंत्र of China controlling मेनलैंड China ( including हाइनान ), और the गणतंत्र of चीन 's jurisdiction being प्रतिबंधित to Taiwan, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu और several outlying islands.
the Kuomintang defeat is attributed to several factors : Corruption - Chiang wrote in his diary on June 1948 कि the KMT had विफल, नहीं because of external enemies but because of rot from within.
Strong initial support इससे the U.S. diminished, and तब, stopped.
( partly because of KMT भ्रष्टाचार and anti-democratic regime, and partly because of the uncertain U.S. foreign policy towards Communism between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised ग़रीब peasants farmland from their landlords.
This ensured PLA popular support.
बाद the surrender of जापानी at the end of World War II, Soviet forces turned over उनके captured जापानी हथियार to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take कंट्रोल of territory in Manchuria.
To this day, no armistice or peace सन्धि has ever been signed, and it is debated as to the whether the Civil युद्ध has legally ended.
Cross-Strait संबंध have been hindered by military threats and political और economic pressure, विशेषकर over Taiwan 's political status, with दोनो सरकारें officially adhering to a `` One-China policy. ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of इसके territory and continues to threaten the ROC with a military आक्रमण if the ROC officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining अंतरराष्ट्रीय recognition as the Republic of Taiwan.
the ROC mutually claims मेनलैंड China, and they both continue the लड़ो over diplomatic recognition.
आज, the war as such occurs on the political and आर्थिक fronts in the form of cross-strait संबंध ; however, the two separate de facto राज्य have बंद economic ties.
The One Hundred Twelfth United States Congress was the meeting of the legislative branch of the United States federal government, from January 3, 2011 until January 3, 2013.
it convened in Washington, D.C. on January 3, 2011, और ended on January 3, 2013, 17 days before the end of the अध्यक्षीय term to which Barack Obama was elected in 2008.
Senators elected to regular terms in 2006 completed those terms in this कॉंग्रेस.
This Congress included the last House of Representatives elected from congressional districts that were apportioned based on the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
In the 2010 मध्यावधि elections, the रिपब्लिकन Party won the majority in the House of Representatives.
While the डेमोक्रेट kept their सीनेट majority, it was reduced from the previous Congress.
इस was the first Congress in which the हाउस and Senate were controlled by different parties since the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ), and the first Congress to begin that way चूंकि the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ).
in इस कॉंग्रेस, the House of Representatives had the largest number of Republican members, 242, since the 80th कॉंग्रेस ( 1947–1949 ).
it was also the first कॉंग्रेस since 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy परिवार served, as खूब as the most politically polarized Congress since Reconstruction, साथ रिकार्ड low approval ratings.
Wealth in the संयुक्त States is commonly measured in terms of net लायक, which is the sum of all एसेट, सहित घर equity, minus all liabilities.
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit organizations 1945–2009, unadjusted for महंगाई or population change.
For example, a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house, $ 5,000 in mutual funds, $ 30,000 in cars, $ 20,000 worth of stock in their own company, and a $ 45,000 ira would have assets totaling $ 900,000.
Assuming that इस household would have a $ 250,000 mortgage, $ 40,000 in car loans, और $ 10,000 in credit कार्ड debt, इसके debts होता total $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this household 's assets ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), this household होता have a net worth of $ 600,000.
Net worth can vary साथ fluctuations in value of the underlying एसेट.
the wealth —more specifically, the median net worth—of households in the संयुक्त States is varied साथ संबंध to रेस, education, geographic location and gender.
As एक होता expect, households with greater आय feature the highest net worths, though ऊँची आय can not be taken as an always accurate indicator of net लायक.
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the rise, साथ baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers.
In addition, wealth is unevenly distributed, with the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the wealth in the संयुक्त States, which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009.
Including human पूंजी such as skills, the United Nations अनुमानित the total माल of the United राज्य in 2008 to be $ 118 खरब.
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain राहत ; for those procedures, which have begun to लो the name `` rhizotomy '' in certain उदाहरण, see facet rhizotomy और similar.
a rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal cord, most often to relieve the symptoms of neuromuscular conditions such as spastic diplegia और other फ़ॉर्म of spastic दिमागी palsy.
the चयनात्मक dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main use of rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP since the 1980s ; in this सर्जरी, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed.
the sensory nerve roots, where spasticity is स्तिथ, are first separated from the motor ones, and the तंत्रिका मछली to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity हैं then selectively lesioned with tiny electrical pulses.
in spasticity, rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the damaged nerves that don’t receive gamma amino butyric acid, which is the core प्रॉब्लम for people साथ spastic दिमागी palsy.
These over-firing, non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity during the emg testing phase in SDR and are thus considered to be the सोर्स of the रोगी 's hypertonia ; they are eliminated with the electrical pulses once पहचाना, while the remaining nerves और nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully बरकरार and untouched.
This अर्थात् that the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and कि इस is done बगैर affecting nervous system संवेदनशीलता or function in other areas, क्युकी the तभी nerves नष्ट are the over-firing ones जिम्मेदार लिये the muscle tightness.
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy हैं also increasingly becoming interchangeable in the treatment of chronic back पीड़ा from अपक्षयी disc disease.
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy और is not a surgical procedure but is बजाय done on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body.
Such रेडियो frequency nerve lesioning results in पाँच to आठ or more months of pain relief पहले the nerve regenerates and another round of the procedure needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different फ़ॉर्म of radiofrequency ablation, and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' नाम should नहीं be confused साथ the SDR कार्यविधि.
Migrant workers in California, 1935
The पद migrant worker has अलग आधिकारिक meanings और connotations in different parts of the world.
The संयुक्त Nations ' definition is broad, including any लोगों working outside of their home देश.
The term can भी be used to describe someone who migrates within a country, possibly their own, in अनुक्रम to pursue work ऐसे as seasonal कार्य.
फोटोग्राफ of लील Wayne with teardrop tattoos below his eyes.
The teardrop tattoo or आंसू tattoo is a symbolic टैटू that is लगाई underneath the eye.
It रै no fixed meaning but almost सब meanings ( see below ) have some कनेक्शन to prison.
U.S. Route 75 is a north–south u.S. Highway.
The highway 's northern terminus is in Kittson काउंटी, मिनेसोटा, at the Canadian किनारा, where it once continued as Manitoba राजमार्ग 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in Dallas, टेक्सास, जहाँ it is ज्ञात as North Central एक्सप्रेसवे.
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border route, from कनाडा to the Gulf of Mexico at galveston, Texas.
However, the entire segment south of Dallas, Texas रै been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45, a cutoff खण्ड of town-to-town सतह road having become State Highway 75.
Lower Ninth Ward is a neighborhood of the city of नई Orleans.
As the name implies, it is part of the नवीं Ward of New ऑरलियन्स.
The Lower Ninth Ward is प्रायः thought of as the entire क्षेत्रफल within New Orleans downriver of the औद्योगिक Canal ; however, the City Planning Commission divides this क्षेत्रफल into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
the term `` निम्नतर '' refers to its स्थान farther towards the mouth of the Mississippi River, `` down '' or `` below '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology.
But the 9th Ward, like all Wards in New Orleans, is a voting district.
The 9th Ward was added as a voting ज़िला in 1852.
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is रचित of वार्ड 9 Districts 1, 2, 4, and 7 which मेक up the Holy Cross Area and Ward 9 Districts 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher मतदान ज़िला संख्याएँ in the 9th वार्ड ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side of the औद्योगिक कनाल.
the क्षेत्रफल came to national attention for its devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane कैटरीना in 2005.
हबल views of Copernicus crater ( inset ), which is about 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon, as seen from Earth during a lunar eclipse, where the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only प्राकृतिक satellite of the धरती, and the fifth largest satellite in the Solar System.
It is the largest natural उपग्रह of a planet in the सौर System relative to the size of its primary, having 27 % the व्यास and 60 % the density of Earth, resulting in its mass.
The चंद्रमा is the second densest satellite बाद Io, a उपग्रह of Jupiter.
The Moon is in तुल्यकालिक rotation साथ Earth, always showing the वही face with इसके near पक्ष marked by dark volcanic maria that fill between the bright प्राचीन crustal highlands and the prominent impact craters.
It is the brightest object in the आसमान after the सूर्य, although its surface is actually very dark, with a reflectance similar to that of कोयले.
Its prominence in the sky और its regular cycle of phases have, since ancient times, made the चंद्रमा an important cultural influence on language, पंचांग, art and mythology.
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the ocean tides and the minute lengthening of the day.
the Moon 's current कक्षीय distance, about तीस times the व्यास of the धरती, causes it to appear almost the same आकार in the sky as the सूर्य, allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely in total solar eclipses.
इस matching of apparent विज़ुअल आकार is a संयोग.
The Moon 's linear distance from the Earth is currently increasing at a रेट of 3.82±0.07cm per year, but this rate is नहीं निरंतर.
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 billion सालो ago, not long after the Earth.
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin in the पास्ट, the वर्तमान सबसे widely accepted स्पष्टीकरण is that the Moon formed from the debris left over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized देह.
The Moon is the only celestial body other than धरती on जिससे इंसानो have set foot.
The सोवियत Union 's Luna programme was the पहला to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA अपोलो program achieved the only मानवयुक्त मिशन to date, beginning with the पहला manned चंद्र orbiting mission by Apollo 8 in 1968, and छह manned lunar landings between 1969 और 1972, with the पहला being Apollo 11.
These missions लौटे over 380 kg of lunar rocks, which have been used to develop a geological understanding of the Moon 's origins, the formation of its आतंरिक structure, and its subsequent history.
बाद the Apollo 17 mission in 1972, the चंद्रमा has been visited तभी by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the final Soviet Lunokhod rover.
Since 2004, Japan, China, India, the United States, and the यूरोपीय Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters.
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of lunar water बर्फ in permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे and bound into the lunar regolith.
Future manned missions to the Moon have महरूम planned, including government as well as privately funded efforts.
the Moon remains, under the Outer Space सन्धि, free to all nations to explore for peaceful purposes.
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004 ) was the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to that, he थी the 33rd Governor of California ( 1967–1975 ), and a रेडियो, फिल्मी and television actor.
Born in tampico, Illinois, and raised in Dixon, Reagan was educated at Eureka कॉलेज, earning a स्नातक of Arts degree in अर्थशास्त्र and sociology.
After graduating, Reagan moved first to Iowa to work as a रेडियो broadcaster and then, in 1937, to Los एंजिल्स where he began a career as an actor, first in films and बाद television.
कुछ of उसके most notable films include knute Rockne, All अमरीकी ( 1940 ), Kings Row ( 1942 ), and Bedtime लिये Bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan परोसा as President of the Screen Actors Guild and later as a प्रवक्ता for General Electric ( GE ) ; his start in politics occurred during उसके work लिये GE.
Originally a सदस्य of the Democratic पार्टी, उसके positions began shifting rightward in the 1950s, and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry goldwater 's presidential candidacy in 1964, he was persuaded to seek the California governorship, winning two सालो later and again in 1970.
He was defeated in his चलाएं for the Republican presidential nomination in 1968 and in 1976, but won both the nomination and सामान्य election in 1980, defeating लाज़िम jimmy Carter.
As अध्यक्ष, Reagan implemented sweeping new political and economic initiatives.
His supply-side economic policies, dubbed `` reaganomics ``, advocated reducing tax दरों to spur आर्थिक विकास, controlling the money supply to reduce inflation, deregulation of the economy, and reducing सरकारी spending.
in his first term he survived an assassination attempt, took a मुश्किल line against मजदूर unions, announced a new War on Drugs, and ordered an आक्रमण of Grenada.
he was re-elected in a landslide in 1984, proclaiming that it was `` Morning in America ``.
His second term was primarily marked by विदेशी matters, ऐसे as the ending of the ठंडा युद्ध, the 1986 bombing of Libya, and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire ``, he supported anti-communist movements worldwide and spent his first term forgoing the strategy of détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR.
Reagan negotiated साथ Soviet सामान्य Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev, culminating in the inf Treaty and the decrease of दोनो countries ' नाभिकीय arsenals.
reagan left office in 1989.
In 1994, the पूर्व president disclosed that he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease earlier in the year ; he died टेन years बाद at the age of 93.
A conservative icon, he ranks अत्यधिक in public opinion polls of u.S. Presidents और is credited for generating an वैचारिक renaissance on the American political right.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the संपूर्ण Tanakh.
the Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, tenak, Tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The Tanakh is also known as the Masoretic टेक्स्ट or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the आरंभिक Hebrew letters of the Masoretic टेक्स्ट 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '', भी known as the Five Books of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that which is read '', is an alternative Hebrew पद for the tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation, called the Oral Torah.
The कावासाकी Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc क्लास sport motorcycle.
It थी introduced in 1995, and has been constantly updated throughout the years in response to new उत्पाद from Honda, Suzuki, and Yamaha.
The ZX श्रेणी is what थी known as the Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s and still carries the name today.
Assassination attempts and plots on Presidents of the संयुक्त राज्य have महरूम numerous : more than 20 attempts to kill sitting and पूर्व राष्ट्रपतियों, as well as the presidents-elect, are known.
Four sitting राष्ट्रपतियों have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President ), जेम्स A. Garfield ( the 20th President ), William mckinley ( the 25th President ) and जॉन F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ).
Two presidents यहूद injured in attempted assassinations : पूर्व President Theodore Roosevelt ( the 26th President ), and President रोनाल्ड Reagan ( the 40th President ).
Although the इतिहासकार J.W. Clarke has सुझाया that most American assassinations were politically प्रेरित actions, carried out by rational men, not सब ऐसे attacks have महरूम undertaken लिये political reasons.
Some attackers had questionable दिमागी स्थिरता, and a few were judged legally insane.
Since the Vice President of the संयुक्त राज्य has for more than a सदी been elected from the same political party as the President, the assassination of the अध्यक्ष is unlikely to result in major policy परिवर्तन.
This may बताइये why political groups typically do not make ऐसे attacks.
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel written by Wilson Rawls in 1961 about a boy who खरीदता and trains दो Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs.
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, cay : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in वेस्ट South सेंट्रल United States.
ओक्लाहोमा is the 20th सबसे extensive and the 28th सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
The state 's name is निकला from the Choctaw words okla और humma, meaning `` रेड people '', और it is known informally by its nickname, The Sooner राज्य.
Formed by the संयोजन of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on November 16, 1907, Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents are ज्ञात as Oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', और its capital and largest city is ओक्लाहोमा City.
A प्रमुख producer of प्राकृतिक gas, oil, और agriculture, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, telecommunications, and जैवप्रौद्योगिकी.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, ranking among the top states in per capita income growth and gross domestic उत्पाद विकास.
ओक्लाहोमा City and Tulsa serve as ओक्लाहोमा 's primary economic anchors, साथ nearly दो thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan सांख्यिकीय areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and eastern वनों, most of Oklahoma झूठ in the ग्रेट Plains and the U.S. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to कठोर मौसम.
In जोड to having a prevalence of English, German, स्कॉटिश, Irish और Native अमरीकी ancestry, अधिक than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma, second only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक regions and historically served as a route for cattle drives, a destination for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for देशी Americans.
Redwall, by ब्रायन Jacques, is a series of children 's काल्पनिक novels.
It is the title of the first book of the series, प्रकाशित in 1986, as खूब as the name of the Abbey featured in the किताब and the name of an animated TV श्रेणी आधारित on तीन of the novels ( Redwall, Mattimeo, and मार्टिन the Warrior ), which first aired in 1999.
the किताबे are primarily aimed at older children, but have fans of all ages.
There have been twenty-two novels and two picture books published.
The twenty-second, और final, अनोखा, the Rogue Crew, थी posthumously released on May 3, 2011.
Natural Gas is usually measured by volume in the संयुक्त राज्य and is stated in cubic feet.
A cubic foot of gas is the राशि of gas needed to fill a आवाज़ of one cubic foot under set conditions of pressure and temperature.To माप larger amounts of natural gas, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet, and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet.
To provide greater सटीकता in comparing fuels, energy content is measured in शर्तें of `` अंग्रेजों Thermal इकाई ( BTU 's ). ''
A BTU is the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water ( approximately a pint ), एक degree Fahrenheit at or close to its पाइंट of maximum density.
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- SI unit of ऊष्मा energy equal to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ).
It is approximately the energy समतुल्य of burning 100 cubic feet ( often referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not energy content, a therm factor is used by ( Natural ) गैस companies to convert the volume of gas used to its heat equivalent, and thus गणना the actual energy use.
the therm factor is usually in the units therms/CCF.
it will vary साथ the mix of hydrocarbons in the natural gas.
Natural gas with a higher than average concentration of ethane, propane or butane होगा have a higher therm factor.
Impurities, such as carbon dioxide or nitrogen, lower the therm factor.
The volume of the गैस is calculated as if measured at standard temperature और pressure ( STP ).
The ऊष्मा content of प्राकृतिक गैस is solely निर्भर on the composition of the gas, and is स्वतंत्र of temperature and pressure.
One therm is equal to about 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can also be provided by about of natural gas.
The therm sometimes has been confused with the thermie ( see below ).
The names of both units come इससे the Greek शब्द for heat.
A thermie ( th ) is a मीट्रिक unit of heat energy, part of the meter-tonne-second system sometimes used by European engineers.
the thermie is equal to the राशि of उर्जा required to raise the temperature of 1 tonne of water by 1 °c.
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 btu.
the American Civil War ( acw ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern स्लेव states कि declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The युद्ध had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
विदेशी powers did not intervene.
After four years of खूनी combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery थी abolished, और the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring नेशनल unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
in the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave राज्य formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing लोकतांत्रिक President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration होता not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining स्लेव states continued to reject काल्स लिये secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous संघीय forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a compromise, and दोनो sides prepared लिये war.
the Confederates assumed that European countries यहूद so dependent on `` King Cotton `` कि वे would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide सैनिकों to retake the fort ; consequently, four अधिक slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
the Union जल्द controlled the border states and established a नवल blockade that अबोध the southern अर्थव्यवस्था.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with confederate retreat at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों intervention.
lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, और the संघ at vicksburg split the Confederacy in दो at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. ली 's Confederate incursion north ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The संघ marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was एक of the earliest सच्चा industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death टोल at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, और 30 प्रतिशत of all Southern श्वेत males aged 18–40.
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28, 1949 ) is a former U.S. track and field athlete, motivational speaker, socialite, television personality and businessman.
He won the gold medal for decathlon in the मॉन्ट्रियल 1976 Summer Olympics.
Following his Olympic win and the related मान्यता, he married क्रिस कार्दशियन, and his professional career evolved into being a टेलीविज़न celebrity.
By 1981, he had स्ट्रक्चर in several made-for-tv movies और was Erik एस्ट्राडा 's replacement on the top रेटेड TV series CHiPs.
he रै six children : बर्ट, Casey, ब्रैंडन, Brody, Kendall and काइली.
Since his 1991 विवाह to Kris Jenner, he is the stepfather to Kourtney, किम, Khloe and Rob Kardashian.
Since 2007, he रै appeared साथ his blended family on Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
Escherichia कोलाई ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded जीवों ( endotherms ).
Most E. coli strains are harmless, लकिन some serotypes can कारण serious food विषाक्तता in humans, and are occasionally जिम्मेदार for product recalls due to food contamination.
The हानिरहित strains हैं part of the सामान्य flora of the gut, and can benefit their hosts by producing vitamin K2, and by preventing the establishment of pathogenic जीवाणु within the आंत.
E. coli और related जीवाणु constitute about 0.1 % of gut फ्लोरा, and fecal–oral transmission is the major route through which रोगजनक strains of the bacterium cause disease.
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of time, जिससे makes them ideal indicator organisms to test environmental samples for fecal contamination.
There is, however, a growing body of research that has examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive लिये extended periods outside of the host.
The bacterium can also be grown easily and inexpensively in a laboratory setting, and रै been intensively investigated for over 60 सालो.
E. coli is the most widely studied prokaryotic model organism, and an important species in the fields of biotechnology and microbiology, where it has परोसा as the host organism for the majority of कार्य with recombinant DNA.
Area code 217 is the North अमरीकी टेलीफोन area code for much of western और central Illinois.
the 217 क्षेत्रफल includes Illinois ' capital, Springfield, plus Champaign, urbana, Decatur, Danville, Quincy, and Rantoul.
217 was one of the original क्षेत्रफल codes, जिससे were created in 1947.
The only significant change in 217 's boundaries was in 1957, when इसके northern portion was combined with part of क्षेत्रफल कोड 815 to form area कोड 309.
चित्र of the largest Antarctic ओज़ोन छेद ever recorded ( सितंबर 2006 ), over the दक्षिणी pole
Layers of the atmosphere ( not to स्केल )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed since the late 1970s : a steady decline of about 4 % प्रति decade in the कुल volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ), and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ओज़ोन over Earth 's polar regions.
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole.
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena, वहीँ are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion कार्यक्रम.
The details of polar ozone hole formation differ from that of mid-latitude thinning, but the सबसे important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens.
The प्रमुख source of these हैलोजन atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( cfcs, freons, halons ).
ये compounds are transported into the stratosphere after being emitted at the surface.
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to increase as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
cfcs और other contributory substances are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ).
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful uvb wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's माहौल, observed and प्रक्षिप्त decreases in ozone have generated worldwide चिंता leading to adoption of the Montreal Protocol that bans the production of CFCs, halons, and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane.
It is suspected कि a variety of biological consequences such as increases in skin कर्कट, cataracts, damage to plants, and कटौती of प्लवक populations in the समंदर 's photic zone may result from the increased uv exposure due to ozone depletion.
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief परिचयात्मक statement of the Constitution 's fundamental उद्देश्य and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and न्यायालयों have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the संविधान 's meaning और कया they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the संयुक्त राज्य and it सेट into motion a question as it pertains to that विशाल population concerning the व्यक्तिगत rights and equality among all people ; इस can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism और social democracy.
Czechoslovakian shot putter Plihan at the 1957 East German Indoor Athletics Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track and field इवेंट involving `` फेंकना '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing गति ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as far as possible.
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the modern Olympics चूंकि उनके पुनरुद्धार in 1896, women 's competition began in 1948.
Map of the संयुक्त Nations ( UN ) member states, with उनके territories ( including dependent territories ) recognized by the UN in blue
There are United राष्ट्र ( un ) सदस्य states, and each of them is a member of the United Nations General Assembly.
The criteria for admission of new members हैं set out in the United राष्ट्र Charter, अध्याय II, आलेख 4:
A recommendation for प्रवेश from the Security परिषद requires affirmative votes from at least nine of the council 's fifteen members, with none of the five permanent members मतदान against.
The Security परिषद 's recommendation जरूर then be subsequently approved in the General Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign राज्य can become un members, and फिलहाल all UN सदस्यों हैं sovereign states ( although a few members were not sovereign when वे joined the UN ).
क्युकी a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a क्रमांक of states that may be माना sovereign states according to the Montevideo Convention criteria are not members because the UN does नहीं consider them to possess sovereignty, mainly due to the lack of अंतरराष्ट्रीय recognition or opposition from certain members.
in addition to the member states, the UN भी invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ), intergovernmental organizations, and अन्य international organizations and entities whose statehood or sovereignty हैं नहीं precisely defined, to become observers at the General Assembly, allowing them to participate and बोलो, but not vote, in General Assembly meetings.
The Eiffel Tower (, ) is an iron lattice tower located on the Champ de Mars in Paris, named बाद the engineer Gustave एफिल, whose company designed and built the tower.
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair, it has become दोनो a global cultural icon of France and one of the सबसे recognizable structures in the संसार.
the tower is the tallest structure in Paris और the most-visited paid monument in the संसार ; 7.1 लाख people ascended it in 2011.
the third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public in the European Union and the उच्चतम in Europe as long as the platform of the Ostankino Tower, at, remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000.
The tower received इसके 250 millionth visitor in 2010.
The tower stands लम्बा, परिचय the same height as an 81-storey building.
During its निर्माण, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the tallest man-made structure in the world, a title it held for 41 years, जबतक the क्रिसलर भवन in New York City was built in 1930.
Because of the addition, in 1957, of the antenna atop the एफिल Tower, it is now taller than the Chrysler Building.
Not including ब्रॉडकास्ट एन्टेना, it is the second-tallest structure in France, बाद the Millau Viaduct.
The tower has three levels for visitors.
Tickets can be purchased to ascend, by stairs or lift ( elevator ), to the first and second levels.
The walk from ground level to the first level is over 300 steps, as is the walk from the first to the दूसरी level.
The third and highest level is accessible only by lift—stairs do exist but are usually closed to the public.
The first और दूसरी levels have restaurants.
The tower has become the most prominent symbol of both Paris and France, often in the establishing shot of films set in the city.
केनेथ Wayne `` केन '' Jennings III ( born may 23, 1974 ) is an American game show contestant and author.
Jennings is noted लिये holding the record for the longest winning streak on the u.S. syndicated game show Jeopardy !
और as being the all-time leading money winner on American खेल shows.
In 2004, Jennings won 74 Jeopardy !
खेल before he was defeated by challenger नैंसी Zerg on his 75th appearance.
His total earnings on jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins, a $ 2,000 second-place prize in his 75th appearance, a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions, as well as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge.
During उसके पहला चलाएं of Jeopardy !
दिखावे, Jennings earned the रिकार्ड for the highest American game show winnings.
His total was surpassed by Brad Rutter, who defeated जेनिंग्स in the finals of the Jeopardy !
परम टूर्नामेंट of Champions ( first aired on May 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the record after appearing on अनेक other खेल shows, culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired on October 10, 2008 ), though Rutter retains the Jeopardy !
record.
After his कामयाबी on Jeopardy !, Jennings wrote परिचय his experience और explored American trivia इतिहास और culture in his किताब Brainiac : Adventures in the जिज्ञासु, Competitive, Compulsive World of Trivia Buffs, प्रकाशित in 2006.
The Canadian Football लीग or cfl ( ' [ LCF ] in French ) is a professional खेल league located in Canada.
The CFL is the highest level of प्रतियोगिता in Canadian football, a रूप of gridiron football closely related to American football.
इसके आठ current teams, which are located in eight separate cities, are विभाजित into दो divisions of four teams each — the East प्रभाग and the West Division.
The लीग 's 19-week regular season runs from late June to early November ; each team plays 18 games with one bye week.
Following the regular ऋतु, the three teams with the best रिकॉर्ड in their division ( except if the fourth place टोली in एक division has a बेहतर रिकार्ड than the third place team in the other प्रभाग, when the team with the better record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the अन्य division 's playoff ) compete in the league 's three-week divisional playoffs, which culminate in the late-november Grey Cup championship, the country 's largest annual sports and television event.
The CFL was officially founded on जनवरी 19, 1958, making it the second oldest gridiron football लीग in North America still in operation, although all its teams long predate the modern formation of the लीग.
It is the highest level of खेल in Canadian football, the most popular football league in कनाडा, and the second-most popular major sports league in Canada, after the National Hockey लीग.
Although बर्फ hockey is Canada 's most popular खेल, the CFL has increased the popularity of Canadian फ़ुटबॉल in Quebec and पश्चिमी Canada.
कनाडाई football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e. youth, ऊँची school, CJFL, QJFL, CIS and senior leagues such as the Alberta Football League ).
The 2010s will be a significant दशक लिये the CFL in terms of growth, as टीमों have renovated, expanded स्टेडियम, or plan to build entirely नई stadiums.
the Montreal Alouettes संपन्नता this first, adding 5,000 seats to Percival Molson Memorial Stadium in time for the 2010 CFL season.
the Edmonton एस्किमोस and Calgary Stampeders also renovated their respective स्टेडियम and सुविधाएं लिये the 2010 season.
In 2011, the BC Lions played under a new, retractable roof in bc प्लेस after spending one और a हाफ seasons at Empire Field.
तब the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in an entirely नई stadium at the University of मनिटोबा, scheduled to open in time for the 2013 season.
The Hamilton tiger-cats, Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also looking at new or extensively-renovated stadiums in the following सालो.
There हैं also hopes of expanding the लीग to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a टोली in either the more populated Halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton.
According to खेल इतिहासकार Douglas Brei, the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only professional sports लीग in North America, major or minor league, in which each existing franchise has won at least one league title while in their current location.
Each एंटीबॉडी binds to a specific antigen ; an interaction similar to a lock and key.
An antibody ( Ab ), also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ), is a large Y-shaped प्रोटीन produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize विदेशी objects such as bacteria and viruses.
The antibody recognizes a अद्वितीय part of the foreign target, called an antigen.
Each tip of the `` y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a lock ) that is विशिष्ट लिये one particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a key ) on an प्रतिजन, allowing these two structures to bind साथ with precision.
using this binding यांत्रिकी, an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other भाग of the immune system, or can neutralize its target directly ( for example, by ब्लॉकिंग a part of a microbe कि is अनिवार्य लिये its invasion and survival ).
The production of antibodies is the main function of the humoral immune system.
Antibodies हैं secreted by a type of श्वेत blood cell called a plasma cell.
Antibodies can occur in दो physical forms, a soluble रूप that is secreted from the cell, और a membrane -bound form that is attached to the surface of a b cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ).
The bcr is only मिला on the surface of b cells and facilitates the activation of ये cells and their subsequent differentiation into either antibody कारखानों called plasma cells, or मेमोरी B cells कि will survive in the body and remember कि same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure.
In most cases, interaction of the B कोशिका साथ a t helper कोशिका is necessary to produce full activation of the B cell and, इसलिए, antibody generation following प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग.
Soluble antibodies हैं released into the blood and tissue fluids, as well as many secretions to continue to सर्वेक्षण for invading microorganisms.
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms antibody and immunoglobulin are प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically made of basic संरचनात्मक units—each with two large heavy chains और two छोटी light जंजीरों.
There are several different प्रकार of antibody heavy जंजीरों, and several different kinds of antibodies, which are grouped into अलग isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess.
पाँच different antibody isotypes are known in स्तनधारियों, which perform अलग roles, and help direct the appropriate immune response लिये प्रत्येक different type of विदेशी object वे encounter.
Though the general structure of all antibodies is बहुत समान, a small region at the tip of the protein is extremely variable, allowing millions of antibodies साथ slightly different tip structures, or प्रतिजन binding साइट, to exist.
This region is ज्ञात as the hypervariable region.
Each of these variants can bind to a different antigen.
This enormous विविधता of antibodies allows the immune system to recognize an बराबर wide किस्में of antigens.
the विशाल and विविध population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a set of gene segments that encode different प्रतिजन binding sites ( or paratopes ), followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene, which create further diversity.
Antibody genes also re-organize in a प्रक्रम called क्लास switching that changes the base of the heavy chain to another, बनाना a different isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable प्रदेश.
This allows a single antibody to be used by several different parts of the immune प्रणाली.
The symbol used by the Zodiac Killer to sign his correspondence
The Zodiac Killer was a serial कातिल who operated in Northern California in the late 1960s and जल्दी 1970s.
The killer 's identity remains unknown.
the Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia, Vallejo, Lake berryessa, and San Francisco between December 1968 and October 1969.
Four men and three women between the ages of 16 और 29 were targeted.
the killer originated the name `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting letters भेजा to the local Bay Area press.
These अक्षर included चार cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the चार cryptograms sent, only one has been definitively solved.
Suspects have been नामित by विधि enforcement and amateur जांचकर्ताओं, but no conclusive evidence has surfaced.
In April 2004, the San Francisco Police Department marked the case `` निष्क्रिय '', yet re-opened the case at some point prior to कूच 2007.
The case also remains खोलें in the city of Vallejo, as well as in Napa काउंटी and solano County.
the California Department of Justice has maintained an खोलें case file on the zodiac हत्याएं चूंकि 1969.
Jennings is a small city in और the parish सीट of Jefferson डेविस Parish, Louisiana, United States, near Lake Charles.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 10,383 at the 2010 census, a small decline from the 2000 tabulation.
The city is 68 percent white.
Jennings is the principal city of the Jennings micropolitan सांख्यिकीय Area, which includes all of Jefferson Davis Parish.
it is also part of the larger झील Charles-Jennings Combined Statistical Area.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the manipulation of matter on an परमाणु and molecular scale.
the earliest, widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating अणु and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products, also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative, जिससे defines nanotechnology as the हेरफेर of पदार्थ with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
This definition reflects the फैक्ट that quantum mechanical effects are महत्वपूर्ण at this quantum-realm scale, and so the परिभाषा shifted from a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research और technologies कि सौदे with the special properties of matter that occur below the given आकार दहलीज.
It is therefore common to see the बहुवचन form `` nanotechnologies '' as well as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the व्यापक दायरा of research and applications whose common trait is size.
क्युकी of the variety of potential applications ( including औद्योगिक and सैन्य ), governments have invested billions of dollars in nanotechnology शोध.
Through इसके National Nanotechnology Initiative, the यूएसए रै invested 3.7 billion dollars.
The European संघ has invested 1.2 billion और Japan 750 million dollars.
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally very broad, including fields of science as diverse as surface science, सशुल्क chemistry, molecular biology, semiconductor physics, microfabrication, etc.
The associated शोध and applications हैं equally diverse, ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to completely new approaches based upon molecular self-assembly, इससे developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to सीधा control of matter on the atomic scale.
Scientists currently बहस the future implications of nanotechnology.
Nanotechnology may be समर्थ to बनाएँ many new materials and डिवाइस with a vast range of applications, ऐसे as in medicine, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, biomaterials और energy production.
On the other hand, nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as कोई new technology, सहित concerns about the toxicity and environmental प्रभाव of nanomaterials, and their संभावित effects on global economics, as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios.
These चिंताएं have led to a debate among advocacy groups and governments on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.
मैप of the Eastern bloc
The term पूर्वी Bloc or Communist bloc refers to the पूर्व communist राज्य of Central और Eastern Europe, generally the Soviet Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact.
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc were also used to denote groupings of राज्य aligned with the Soviet Union, although these terms might include राज्य बाहर Central और Eastern Europe.
The New Jersey gubernatorial election of 2009 took place on नवम्बर 3, 2009.
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term और was being challenged by Republican क्रिस क्रिस्टी, Independent Christopher Daggett and नौ others, in जोड to अनेक write-in candidates.
Christie जीती the election, with परिचय 48.5 percent of the vote, to 44.9 percent लिये corzine and 5.8 प्रतिशत for Daggett.
Christie जीती the largest margin for a first पद Republican चूंकि 1969.
Christie assumed office on January 19, 2010.
This थी the first election to fill the newly created office of Lieutenant Governor.
the candidates for governor and lieutenant governor were joined साथ as a single choice, so that voters किया not have the opportunity to split the ticket.
Kim guadagno, Christie 's running mate, became नई Jersey 's first lieutenant governor following her inauguration.
Health care in the United States is provided by अनेक distinct संगठन.
Health care facilities are largely owned और operated by private sector businesses.
स्वास्थ्य insurance for public sector employees is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision and बिता आता from programs such as medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, the Children 's Health Insurance Program, and the Veterans Health Administration.
Most of the population under 65 is insured by उनके or a family member 's employer, some buy health insurance on उनके own, and the शेष are uninsured.
Of 17 high-income देशों studied by the नेशनल Institutes of Health in 2013, the United States was at or near the bottom in infant mortality, heart and lung disease, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, and rates of disability.
Together, such मुद्दे प्लेस the U.S. at the नीचे of the list लिये life प्रत्याशा.
on औसत, a U.S. male can be expected to live almost four fewer years than those in the top-ranked country.
According to the World स्वास्थ्य Organization ( जो ), the United States spent more on health care per capita ( $ 7,146 ), and अधिक on health care as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other स्वदेश in 2008.
The Commonwealth Fund ranked the United States last in the quality of health care among similar countries, and notes U.S. care costs the सबसे.
The u.S. Census Bureau reported that 49.9 million residents, 16.3 % of the population, यहूद uninsured in 2010 ( up इससे 49.0 million residents, 16.1 % of the population, in 2009 ).
A 2004 संस्थान of Medicine ( IOM ) report said : `` the United States is among the few industrialized राष्ट्र in the world that does नहीं guarantee access to health care लिये its जनसांख्यिकी. ''
a 2004 oecd report said : `` With the exception of Mexico, तुर्कों, and the United States, all OECD देशों had achieved universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health insurance causes roughly 48,000 unnecessary मौतों every year in the United States.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed high चिकित्सा expenses.
A 2013 पढ़ाई found कि about 25 % of सब senior citizens घोषित bankruptcy due to medical expenses, और 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their प्राथमिक residence.
On March 23, 2010, the Patient सुरक्षा और Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ) became law, providing for major changes in health insurance.
In physiology, body जल is the water सामग्री of the human देह.
a significant fraction of the human body is water.
Arthur guyton 's textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the total राशि of water in a man of average वज़न ( 70 kilograms ) is approximately 40 litres, averaging 57 प्रतिशत of his कुल body weight.
In a newborn infant, this may be as ऊँची as 75 प्रतिशत of the body वज़न, but it progressively decreases from birth to old आयु, most of the decrease occurring during the पहला 10 years of life.
Also, obesity decreases the प्रतिशत of जल in the body, sometimes to as low as 45 percent ''.
ये figures are सांख्यिकीय averages, so are illustrative, and like सब biostatistics, will vary with things like प्रकार of population, age और क्रमांक of people sampled, और methodology.
So there is not, और can not be, a figure that is exactly the वही for सब लोगों, for this or कोई other physiological measure.
For उदाहरण, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology लिये Nurses gives a फिगर of 60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable to water, which approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
in diseased states where देह जल is affected, the compartment or compartments that have changed can दे clues to the प्रकृति of the problem.
Body water is regulated by hormones, including anti-diuretic हार्मोन ( अध ), aldosterone और atrial natriuretic peptide.
Per Netter 's Atlas of Human Physiology, body water is broken down into the following कम्पार्टमेंटs:
intracellular fluid ( 2/3 of देह जल ).
Per Guyton, in a body containing 40 लीटर of fluid, about 25 litres is intracellular, जिससे amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), close enough to the 2/3 rule of अंगूठा.
Jackson 's ग्रन्थ states 70 % of body fluid is intracellular.
Extracellular द्रव ( 1/3 of body water ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, for a 40 litre body, about 15 litres is extracellular, which amounts to 37.5 % Again, this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here.
Plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular fluid ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, of the 15 लीटर of extracellular fluid, plasma volume averages 3 लीटर.
इस amounts to 20 %, the same as per Netter 's Atlas.
Interstitial fluid ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular द्रव ( a.k.a. `` third space, '' normally ignored in calculations )
contained inside organs, such as the gastrointestinal, cerebrospinal, peritoneal, and ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a term प्रयुक्त in psychology to reflect a व्यक्ति 's overall emotional evaluation of his or her own worth.
It is a निर्णय of oneself as well as an attitude toward the स्वः.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example, `` I am competent, '' `` I am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph, despair, pride and shame.
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is what we think about the self ; self-esteem, is the positive or negative evaluations of the self, as in how we feel परिचय it. ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative आयाम of the self कि includes feelings of worthiness, prides and discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is भी closely संबद्ध with self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition that a person has which represents their judgements of उनके own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, Morris rosenberg और social-learning theorists defined self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as `` the experience of being competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and होने worthy of happiness. ''
According to Branden, self-esteem is the sum of self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी क्षमता ) और self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ).
It exists as a consequence of the implicit निर्णय that प्रत्येक person रै of their ability to फेस जीवन 's challenges, to understand and solve problems, and their right to achieve happiness, और be given आदर.
as a social psychological construct, self-esteem is attractive because researchers have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes, ऐसे as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
In addition, self-esteem has भी महरूम treated as an important outcome due to its close संबंध with psychological well-being ( दलदल 1989 ).
Self-esteem can लागू specifically to a particular dimension ( लिये example, `` I believe I am a good writer and I महसूस happy about कि '' ) or a global extent ( for example, `` I believe I am a bad व्यक्ति, and feel ख़राब about myself in सामान्य '' ).
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), though normal, short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem ) भी exist.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, और self-integrity.
a Masonic आवास, often termed a निजी Lodge or Constituent Lodge, is the मौलिक organisational unit of Freemasonry.
प्रत्येक नई Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a Grand Lodge, but is subject to its direction only in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction.
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the संसार 's first known Grand आवास in London ( today पुकारा the संयुक्त Grand Lodge of England ) have the अद्वितीय विशेषाधिकार to operate as समय immemorial i.e. without such warrant ; only one other lodge operates without a warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' आवास in लंदन, although it is नहीं also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title.
A freemason is generally entitled to visit any Lodge, in कोई jurisdiction ( i.e. under any ग्रैंड Lodge ) in amity with उसके own.
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to निपुण Masons ( that is, freemasons who have attained the Order 's third degree ).
He is पहला usually required to check, और certify, the regularity of the relationship of the Lodge - and be able to satisfy कि Lodge of his regularity of membership.
Freemasons gather together as a आवास to कार्य the three मौलिक डिग्री of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft और Master Mason.
Pilkington समूह सीमित is a multinational glass manufacturing कम्पनी headquartered in St Helens, United Kingdom और a wholly owned subsidiary of the Japan-based NSG समूह.
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an independent company listed on the London भण्डार Exchange and लिये a समय was a constituent of the ftse 100 अनुक्रमणिका.
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of another one, particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source, and it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks.
A quotation can also refer to the दोहराया use of units of any other form of expression, विशेषकर parts of artistic works : तत्व of a painting, scenes इससे a movie or भाग इससे a musical composition.
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a आम साल starting on Monday ( कड़ी will प्रदर्शक the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar और a आम year starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the family Piperaceae, cultivated for इसके fruit, which is प्रायः dried और used as a spice और seasoning.
the fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is approximately in diameter, dark red when fully mature, and, जैसे all drupes, contains a single seed.
peppercorns, और the ground pepper derived from them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( cooked and dried unripe फल ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) और white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to दक्षिण India, and is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has been used चूंकि antiquity for both इसके flavour and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the संसार 's most traded spice.
It is one of the most common spices added to European cuisine और its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, नहीं to be confused with the capsaicin कि gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the modern संसार, often paired with salt.
Fire hydrant in Charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the संयुक्त राज्य or as a johnny pump in New York City ), is an active fire protection measure, and a सोर्स of water provided in most urban, suburban और rural areas with municipal water service to enable अग्निशमन to tap into the नगरपालिका जल सप्लाई to assist in extinguishing a fire.
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify लिये an insurance discount since firefighters should be able to more rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property.
The concept of fire plugs dates to at least the 17th century.
This was a समय when firefighters responding to a कॉल would dig down to the wooden water mains और hastily bore a hole to secure water to fight fires.
The water would भरण the hole creating a अस्थाई well, और be transported from the well to the fire by bucket brigades or, later, by hand-pumped fire engines.
The holes were then plugged with stoppers, normally redwood, which over time came to be known as fire plugs.
The location of the plug would often be recorded or marked so that it could be reused in भविष्य fires.
इस is the सोर्स of the colloquial term fire प्लग स्टिल used for fire hydrants आज.
After the Great Fire of London in 1666, the city installed water mains with holes drilled at intervals, equipped साथ risers, allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs इससे street level.
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to फ्रेडरिक Graff Sr., Chief Engineer of the Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801.
It had a combination hose/faucet outlet और थी of `` wet barrel '' डिज़ाइन with the valve in the top.
It is said that Graff held the first patent लिये a fire hydrant, but this can not be verified because the patent office in Washington D.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many पेटेंट records इससे that period in the process.
the President of the गणतंत्र of South Africa is the सिर of state और head of government under South Africa 's संविधान.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of राज्य was called the State अध्यक्ष.
The President is elected by सदस्यों of the National Assembly, the निम्नतर house of पार्लियामेंट, and is usually the leader of the largest party, which has महरूम the African National Congress since the पहला non-racial elections were held on 27 April 1994.
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct भूमिका of prime मंत्री, but the two roles were merged in the 1983 संविधान जिससे निर्दिष्ट a four-year पद of दफ्तर.
the 1993 and बाद constitutions limits the president 's time in office to two five-year terms.
The first President to be elected under the नई constitution was Nelson Mandela, and the लाज़िम president is Jacob zuma.
Under the interim Constitution ( मान्य from 1994 to 1996 ), there was a Government of National Unity, in which an mp इससे the largest opposition पार्टी was entitled to a position as Deputy अध्यक्ष.
Along with Thabo Mbeki, the last State President, F.W. De Klerk also served as Deputy President, in his capacity as the leader of the National पार्टी जिससे was the second-largest party in the new Parliament.
लकिन De Klerk later resigned and went into विपक्ष with his party.
A voluntary गठबन्धन government continues to exist under the new constitution ( adopted in 1996 ), हालांकि वहीँ have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of डिप्टी president.
Special education or special needs शिक्षा is the education of विद्यार्थी with special needs in a रास्ता कि पता the students ' व्यक्तिगत differences and needs.
Ideally, this प्रक्रम involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching प्रक्रियाओं, adapted उपकरण और materials, accessible settings, और other interventions designed to help learners with special needs achieve a उच्चतर level of personal self-sufficiency and success in school and community than would be available if the छात्र were तभी given access to a typical classroom education.
Common special needs include challenges with learning, communication challenges, emotional and behavioral disorders, physical disabilities, and developmental disorders.
विद्यार्थी with these kinds of special needs हैं likely to benefit from additional educational services such as different approaches to teaching, use of technology, a specifically adapted teaching area, or संसाधन रूम.
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also लाभ इससे specialized teaching techniques or different educational programs, लकिन the term `` special education '' is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of students whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom, and gifted education is handled separately.
In most developed countries, educators are modifying शिक्षण methods and environments so that the maximum number of students are served in general education environments.
Special education in developed देशों is प्रायः regarded less as a `` प्लेस '' and अधिक as `` a दायरा of सेवाएं, available in every school. ''
संयोजन can reduce social stigmas and improve academic achievement for many students.
The opposite of खास education is general education.
General education is the मानक curriculum presented with standard teaching methods और without additional supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12, 1930, as Schwartz györgy ) is a Hungarian-American कारोबार महारथी, निवेशकों, and philanthropist.
He is the अध्यक्ष of Soros Fund Management.
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes.
he is known as `` The Man जो Broke the Bank of England `` because of his in निवेश profits during the 1992 Black बुधवार UK currency crisis.
Between 1979 and 2011, Soros gave away over $ 8 billion to human rights, public health, and शिक्षा causes.
He played a significant भूमिका in the शांतिपूर्ण transition from communism to पूंजीवाद in Hungary ( 1984–89 ) और provided one of Europe 's largest उच्चतर education endowments to Central European University in बुडापेस्ट.
सोरोस is also the chairman of the Open Society संस्थान.
An कर्ता portraying सिकंदर ग्राहम Bell speaking into an early model telephone.
the invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals, the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims.
The विकास of the modern electrical telephone involved an array of lawsuits संस्थापित upon the patent दावा of several individuals and numerous companies.
This आलेख कवर the early सालो from 1844 to 1898, from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission device, to failed attempts to use `` make-and-break '' current, to कामयाब experiments with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson, and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th सदी.
A निपुण of ठीक कला ( MFA, M.F.A. ) is a graduate degree typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate study beyond the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ), although the term of पढ़ाई होगा vary by country or by विश्वविद्यालयों.
the mfa is a creative उपाधि usually awarded as a terminal degree in visual arts, creative writing, filmmaking, dance, or theatre और other performing arts.
coursework is primarily of an applied or performing nature with the कार्यक्रम प्रायः culminating in a major कार्य or performance.
Master of ठीक Arts कार्यक्रम have generally जरूरी a bachelor 's degree prior to admission, but many do not require कि the undergraduate major be the वही as the mfa field of study.
The most महत्वपूर्ण admissions requirement has often been a sample portfolio or a performance audition.
The Master of Fine Arts differs इससे the Master of Arts in that the mfa, while an academic कार्यक्रम, centers around practice in the particular field, whereas programs leading to the ma usually center on the scholarly, academic, or critical study of the field.
additionally, in the United States, an MFA is recognized as a terminal degree for practitioners of Visual आर्ट, Design, Dance, Theatre, Film/Video, New Media, and Creative लिखने - meaning कि it is considered to be the highest उपाधि in its field, and is प्रयुक्त as a minimum qualification to be able to apply to become a full-time प्राध्यापक teaching at the विश्वविद्यालयों level in these disciplines.
There हैं exceptions to this standard in the कला, notably in the case of music performance, where the mfa is not seen as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree.
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between रचनात्मक production and जारी academic शोध, some universities have established practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as रचनात्मक writing, visual कला, new मीडिया, design and theater.
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing, and to a lesser extent in डिज़ाइन और new media, the influx of graduates from practice-based phd programs has not appreciably changed the standard लिये the MFA as the terminal उपाधि in most Arts disciplines yet.
This is an जारी contentious topic, and is the frequent subject of academic panels, especially at the annual College Art Association सम्मेलन.
the CAA 2008 दिशानिर्देश regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms कि the PhD is not जरूरी as a टर्मिनल degree in the विज़ुअल arts.
the atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima और Nagasaki in Japan were conducted by the United States during the फाइनल stages of World War II in 1945.
The two events are the तभी use of nuclear weapons in war to तिथि.
Following a firebombing campaign that destroyed many Japanese cities, the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan.
The war in Europe ended when नाजी Germany signed its instrument of surrender on 8 May, but the Pacific War continued.
साथ with the United Kingdom and the Republic of चीन, the United राज्य called for a आत्मसमर्पण of Japan in the Potsdam घोषणा on 26 July 1945, threatening Japan साथ `` prompt and utter destruction ''.
The Japanese government ignored this ultimatum, और the United States deployed two nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan प्रोजेक्ट.
American airmen dropped Little लड़के on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945, followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August.
भीतर the first two to four months of the bombings, the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 लोगों in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki, with roughly half of the deaths in each city occurring on the पहला दिन.
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that, of the people who died on the day of the विस्फोट, 60 % died from flash or flame burns, 30 % from falling debris and 10 % इससे other causes.
दौरान the following months, large numbers died from the प्रभाव of burns, विकिरण sickness, and other injuries, compounded by illness.
in a US estimate of the कुल immediate and short term cause of death, 15–20 % died from radiation sickness, 20–30 % from burns, और 50–60 % इससे अन्य injuries, compounded by illness.
In दोनो cities, most of the dead were civilians, although Hiroshima had a sizeable garrison.
On 15 अगस्त, six days after the bombing of Nagasaki, Japan घोषित its surrender to the Allies, signing the Instrument of आत्मसमर्पण on 2 September, officially ending World War II.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war Japan 's adopting तीन Non-Nuclear Principles, forbidding the स्वदेश इससे nuclear armament.
The role of the bombings in जापानी 's surrender और उनके ethical औचित्य are still debated.
Mohandas करमचंद गांधी ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ), commonly ज्ञात as Mahatma Gandhi, थी the preeminent leader of Indian nationalism in british-ruled India.
Employing non-violent सिविल disobedience, गांधी led India to independence and inspired movements for non-violence, civil rights and freedom across the world.
The son of a वरिष्ठ government official, Gandhi was born and raised in a Hindu Bania community in तटीय Gujarat, and trained in विधि in London.
गांधी became famous by fighting for the civil rights of मुस्लिम and Hindu Indians in South Africa, using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience कि he developed.
Returning to India in 1915, he set परिचय organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong opponent of `` सांप्रदायिकता `` ( i.e. basing politics on religion ) he reached आउट widely to सब religious groups.
he became a leader of मुसलमान protesting the declining status of the Caliphate.
Assuming नेतृत्व of the भारतीय National Congress in 1921, Gandhi led देशभर campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women 's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending अस्पृश्यता, increasing economic self-reliance, and ऊपर all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British हुकूमत.
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax with the dandi Salt कूच in 1930, and later in demanding the British to immediately Quit India in 1942, during संसार War II.
he was imprisoned for that and लिये numerous अन्य political offenses over the years.
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence and truth in सब situations, and advocated that others do the same.
He देखी the villages as the कोर of the true इण्डिया and promoted self-sufficiency ; he did not support the industrialization कार्यक्रम of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential जातियाँ और wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl, woven with धागे he had hand spun on a charkha.
His chief political दुश्मन in Britain was विंस्टन Churchill, who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
he was a समर्पित शाकाहारी, and undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification and राजनैतिक mobilization.
In his last year, अप्रसन्न at the partition of India, Gandhi worked to stop the carnage between Muslims, Hindus और Sikhs that raged in the किनारा क्षेत्रफल between India and Pakistan.
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram Godse who thought Gandhi was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims.
30 January is observed as शहीदो ' Day in इण्डिया.
The honorific महात्मा ( `` Great Soul '' ) थी applied to him by 1914.
In India he थी also called Bapu ( `` पिता '' ).
He is known in इण्डिया as the Father of the स्वदेश ; his birthday, 2 अक्तूबर, is commemorated there as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy was not theoretical but एक of pragmatism, that is, practicing उसके principles in the moment.
Asked to give a संदेश to the people, he would respond, `` My life is my संदेश. ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – may 10, 1977 ), born Lucille Fay lesueur, was an American अभिनेत्री in film, television and theatre.
starting as a नर्तकी in traveling नाट्य कंपनियाँ पहले debuting on Broadway, Crawford was signed to a motion चित्र contract by metro-goldwyn-mayer in 1925.
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of उसके parts, Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity and became nationally ज्ञात as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, Crawford 's fame rivaled, and later outlasted, MGM colleagues Norma Shearer and greta Garbo.
Crawford often निभाई hardworking young women who find रोमांस and financial success.
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were well received by Depression -era ऑडियंस and were popular with women.
Crawford became one of हॉलीवुड 's most prominent movie stars and one of the highest सशुल्क women in the United States, but उसके films began losing money and by the end of the 1930s she थी labeled `` box दफ्तर poison ''.
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen, क्रॉफर्ड staged a comeback by starring in Mildred Pierce ( 1945 ), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress.
In 1955, she became involved साथ the Pepsi-Cola Company through her marriage to company Chairman Alfred Steele.
बाद his death in 1959, Crawford was elected to fill उसके vacancy on the board of निर्देशकों लकिन was forcibly retired in 1973.
वो continued acting in फिल्मी and television regularly through the 1960s, जब her performances became fewer ; बाद the रिलीज of the British horror film Trog in 1970, Crawford retired from the screen.
Following a public appearance in 1974, after which unflattering photographs were published, क्रॉफर्ड withdrew from public life और became increasingly reclusive until her मौत in 1977.
Crawford married four टाइम्स.
Her पहला तीन marriages ended in divorce ; the last ended with the death of husband अल्फ्रेड Steele.
She अपनाया five children, one of whom was reclaimed by उसके birth mother.
क्रॉफर्ड 's relationships with her two पुरानी children, क्रिस्टीना and Christopher, were acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the two and, बाद क्रॉफर्ड 's death, Christina लिखा a `` tell-all '' संस्मरण, Mommie Dearest, in which वो alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by क्रॉफर्ड.
She थी voted the tenth महानतम female स्टार in the history of American cinema by the American फिल्मी Institute.
1910 Buick tonneau without tonneau cover
1903 घाट Model A rear-door Tonneau
1903 Lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or soft cover used to protect unoccupied passenger seats in a convertible or roadster, or the cargo bed in a pickup truck.
मुश्किल tonneau covers open by a hinging or फोल्डिंग mechanism जबकि soft covers open by rolling up.
The tonneau cover is used to conceal cargo.
जब the cover is pulled out, it keeps items out of the sun and provides अतिरिक्त security by keeping निजी items out of sight, as well as shielding the driver from view.
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to send and read text-based messages of up to 140 वर्ण, ज्ञात as `` tweets ''.
ट्विटर was created in March 2006 by Jack Dorsey and by July, the social networking site was launched.
the service rapidly gained worldwide लोकप्रियता, with over 500 million registered users as of 2012, generating over 340 million tweets daily and handling over 1.6 अरब search queries प्रति दिन.
Since its launch, Twitter has become एक of the ten most visited websites on the Internet, and has been described as `` the SMS of the Internet. ''
Unregistered उपयोक्ता can read tweets, while registered users can post tweets through the website इंटरफ़ेस, SMS, or a range of apps for mobile devices.
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco, with additional servers and offices in नई York नगर, Boston, and San Antonio.
the Hangover is a 2009 अमरीकी comedy film, co-produced और निर्देशित by Todd Phillips and written by Jon Lucas और Scott Moore.
It is the first film of The hangover franchise.The फिल्मी stars ब्राडली Cooper, Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis, Heather Graham, जस्टिन Bartha, and Jeffrey Tambor.
The Hangover tells the story of Phil wenneck, Stu Price and एलन Garner, जो travel to Las Vegas लिये a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug Billings ' impending विवाह.
However, Phil, stu and एलन have no memory of the previous night 's events और must find Doug before the wedding can take place.
Lucas and मूर wrote the script after executive producer Chris Bender 's friend disappeared and had a large bill after being भेजा to a strip club.
बाद लुकास and Moore बेची it to the studio for $ 2 million, Philips and Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to include a बाघ as well as a subplot involving a baby और a police cruiser, and also including boxer Mike Tyson.
Filming took place in Nevada for 15 दिनों, और दौरान filming, the तीन main actors ( Cooper, Helms और Galifianakis ) formed a friendship.
The hangover was released on June 5, 2009, बनने a critical and commercial success.
it became the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009, साथ a worldwide gross of over US $ 467 million.
Critics praised the फिल्मी 's comedic दृष्टिकोण लकिन criticized it for इसके vulgarity.
The film won the Golden Globe Award लिये Best Motion चित्र – Musical or Comedy, and received multiple other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the संसार, as well as the second highest-grossing R-rated comedy कभी in the United राज्य, surpassing a रिकार्ड previously आयोजित by Beverly Hills cop for almost 25 years and बाद being surpassed by Ted in 2012.
Out of all R-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing कभी in the U.S., behind only the जुनून of the Christ and The मेट्रिक्स Reloaded.
a sequel, The Hangover Part II, थी released in 2011, and a third और फाइनल फिल्मी, The Hangover Part III, is set लिये release in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, showing chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special प्रकार of cell division necessary for यौन जनन in eukaryotes.
The cells produced by meiosis are gametes or spores.
in many जीवों, including all पशु and land पौधे ( but not some other groups ऐसे as fungi ), गैमीट are called sperm and egg कोशिकाएं.
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a क्रमांक of similarities with the 'life-cycle ' कोशिका division process of mitosis, it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination जिससे shuffles the genes producing a different genetic संयोजन in each gamete, compared with the co-existence of each of the two separate pairs of each chromosome ( एक प्राप्त from each जनक ) in each cell which results from mitosis.
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically unique ) haploid cells, compared with the two ( genetically identical ) द्विगुणित कोशिकाएं produced from समसूत्रण.
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of प्रत्येक chromosome —one from the organism 's mother और one इससे its पिता.
The cell divides twice, potentially producing up to four haploid cells containing one copy of प्रत्येक chromosome.
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases, such as the गठन of oocytes in स्तनधारियों, only one of the possible four अगुणित cells survives. )
In पशु the अगुणित cell resulting from meiosis is a male or female gamete.
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete cells is a unique mixture of maternal and पैतृक डीएनए, resulting in औलाद that हैं genetically पृथक इससे either parent.
This gives rise to जेनेटिक diversity in sexually reproducing populations.
This जेनेटिक diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can अधिनियम, but, as वर्णित below in Section 6, Origin and function of meiosis, the genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the समजात recombination that is primarily employed for its डीएनए मरम्मत function during meiosis.
It is भी noteworthy that during meiosis, specific genes are more highly transcribed, and ये are पुकारा the meiome, the term used in functional genomics लिये the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a कुंजी feature for सब sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing, synapse and recombination occur.
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the meiome ), however, वहीँ are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g. selective उपयोग of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome and translational controls determine the broad restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a round of DNA replication, creating from the maternal and paternal versions of each chromosome ( homologs ) two exact नक़ल, sister chromatids, attached at the centromere region.
in the beginning of meiosis the maternal and paternal homologs pair to प्रत्येक other.
तब they typically exchange भाग by homologous recombination अग्रणी to crossovers of डीएनए between the maternal and पैतृक versions of the chromosome.
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of प्रत्येक pair of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
Then the fibers pull the recombined homologs to opposite डंडे of the कोशिका.
As the chromosomes move दूर from the center the cell divides into दो daughter cells, each containing a haploid number of chromosomes composed of two chromatids.
After the recombined maternal and paternal homologs have separated into the two daughter कोशिकाएं, a second round of cell प्रभाग occurs.
There meiosis ends as the two सिस्टर chromatids making up each homolog are separated and move into one of the four resulting gamete कोशिकाएं.
Upon fertilization, for example when a sperm enters an अंडा cell, दो gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse.
The gamete from the mother and the gamete from the father each contribute one हाफ of the set of chromosomes that make up the new औलाद 's genome.
Meiosis उपयोग many of the same mechanisms as mitosis, a type of cell division used by eukaryotes like plants and animals to split one cell into two identical daughter cells.
in all पौधे and in अनेक protists meiosis results in the formation of spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization.
मुक्केबाज़ी ( pugilism, prize fighting, the sweet science or in Greek pygmachia ) is a martial art and combat sport in which two people engage in a contest of शक्ति, speed, reflexes, endurance और will by throwing punches साथ gloved hands.
Amateur मुक्केबाज़ी is an Olympic और Commonwealth sport और is a common fixture in most of the major international games - it also रै its own World Championships.
मुक्केबाज़ी is supervised by a referee over a series of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds.
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a रेफरी, is disqualified for breaking a rule, resigns by throwing in a towel, or is pronounced the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest.
The birth hour of boxing as a sport may be इसके acceptance by the प्राचीन Greeks as an Olympic game as early as 688 BC.
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights, largely in Great Britain, to the forerunner of modern boxing in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great Britain और later in the संयुक्त States.
In 2004, ESPN ranked boxing as the most difficult खेल in the world.
Agreement or concord happens when a word changes रूप depending on the other words to which it relates.
it is an instance of inflection, and usually involves making the value of some व्याकरणिक category ( such as लिंग or person ) `` agree '' between different words or parts of the sentence.
For उदाहरण, in Standard English, एक may say i am or he is, but not `` i is '' or `` he am ''.
इस is because the grammar of the language requires that the verb and its subject agree in person.
The pronouns I और he are पहला and third person respectively, as are the verb forms am and is.
The verb form जरूर be selected so कि it has the same व्यक्ति as the subject.
The agreement आधारित on overt व्याकरणिक categories as above is formal agreement, in contrast to notional agreement, which is based on meaning.
For instance, the phrase The संयुक्त States is treated as singular for purposes of agreement, even though it is formally plural.
इस is a list of places below औसत sea level that are on land.
Places in tunnels, खानों, basements, खोदा holes ( भी with open sky ), under water, under बर्फ, or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide etc. are not included.
All figures are in meters below sea level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22, 1948 in Yakima, Washington ) is a best-selling अमरीकी author of over 150 romance novels and contemporary महिलाओं 's fiction.
Over 140 लाख copies of her किताबे are in छपाई throughout the world, and four have become made-for-TV-movies.
Macomber थी the inaugural winner of the fan-voted quill Award for romance in 2005 and रै been awarded both a Romance Writers of America RITA and a lifetime achievement पुरस्कार by the Romance Writers of America.
Catonsville is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in Baltimore County, Maryland, United States.
The population was 41,567 at the 2010 census.
The जातियाँ lies to the west of Baltimore along the city 's border.
catonsville is the home of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County ( UMBC ), a public research विश्वविद्यालयों with over 12,000 students.
A lawyer, according to Black 's Law Dictionary, is `` a person learned in the law ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person जो is practicing विधि. ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct स्थापित by the sovereign government of a society to correct wrongs, maintain the stability of political and social authority, and उद्धार justice.
working as a lawyer involves the practical अनुप्रयोग of abstract legal theories and knowledge to solve specific individualized समस्याएं, or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e., hire ) lawyers to perform legal services.
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal jurisdictions, and so it can be treated here in only the सबसे general शर्तें.
Vector Marketing is the domestic बिक्री भुजा of Cutco Corporation, an Olean, New York based cutlery manufacturer.
The Family and Medical Leave अधिनियम of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a संयुक्त States federal law requiring covered employers to provide कर्मचारी job-protected and unpaid leave for qualified medical और family reasons.
Qualified चिकित्सा and family कारण include : personal or family illness, family सैन्य छोड़, pregnancy, adoption, or the foster care placement of a child.
The FMLA is administered by the मजदूरी and Hour Division of the United राज्य Department of Labor.
The bill was a major part of President Bill Clinton 's agenda in his first term.
President Clinton signed the विधेयक into विधि on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C. sec. 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and it took effect on अगस्त 5, 1993, six months later.
The FMLA was intended `` to संतुलन the demands of the workplace with the needs of families. ''
The अधिनियम allows eligible employees to take up to 12 कार्य weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period to attend to the serious health condition of the employee, parent, spouse or child, or for pregnancy or परवाह of a newborn child, or for adoption or फोस्टर परवाह of a child.
in अनुक्रम to be eligible for FMLA leave, an employee must have been at the business at तनिक 12 months, and worked at least 1,250 hours over the past 12 महीने, and कार्य at a location where the कम्पनी employs 50 or more employees within 75 मील.
The FMLA कवर both public- and private-sector employees, but निश्चित categories of employees are excluded, including elected officials और their personal staff members.
the Vietnam War ( ) was a ठंडा War -era military conflict that occurred in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia from 1 November 1955 to the fall of साइगॉन on 30 April 1975.
This war followed the First Indochina War and was लड़ा between North Vietnam, supported by its communist allies, और the government of South Vietnam, supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries.
The Viet Cong ( also ज्ञात as the National Liberation Front, or nlf ), a lightly हथियारबंद South वियतनामी communist आम front directed by the North, largely लड़ा a guerrilla war against anti-communist forces in the region.
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) engaged in a more conventional war, at टाइम्स committing large units into battle.
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct search and destroy operations, involving ground forces, तोपखाने, and airstrikes.
The U.S. government viewed involvement in the war as a way to prevent a communist takeover of South वियतनाम as part of उनके wider strategy of containment.
the North Vietnamese government और Viet Cong यहूद fighting to reunify Vietnam under communist rule.
They viewed the conflict as a colonial युद्ध, लड़ा initially against France, backed by the U.S., and later against South वियतनाम, which it regarded as a U.S. puppet state.
American military advisors arrived in what was तब फ्रेंच Indochina beginning in 1950.
U.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s, with troop levels tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units were deployed beginning in 1965.
Operations spanned international borders, with Laos and Cambodia heavily bombed.
American involvement in the war peaked in 1968, at the time of the tet Offensive.
After this, u.S. ground शक्तियां were gradually withdrawn as part of a policy known as Vietnamization.
Despite the Paris सलाम Accords, signed by all parties in January 1973, fighting continued.
u.S. military involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a result of the Case–Church Amendment passed by the U.S. Congress.
The कैप्चर of साइगॉन by the Vietnam People 's Army in April 1975 marked the end of the war, और North and South Vietnam यहूद reunified the following year.
The युद्ध exacted a huge human cost in terms of fatalities ( देखिए Vietnam War casualties ).
Estimates of the number of Vietnamese सैनिको और नागरिकों मारे vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million.
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians, 20,000–200,000 Laotians, और 58,220 U.S. service सदस्यों भी died in the विरोध.
क्लीवलैंड ज्वालामुखी in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes पहुँचे a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
a volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or crust, जिससे allows hot magma, volcanic राख and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for उदाहरण the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, has उदाहरण of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic प्लेटों pulling apart ; the प्रशांत Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by अभिसारी tectonic प्लेटों coming together.
by contrast, volcanoes are usually नहीं निर्मित where two tectonic plates slide past one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching और thinning of the Earth 's क्रस्ट in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the ईस्ट African Rift, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in उत्तर America.
This type of volcanism falls under the umbrella of `` Plate परिकल्पना '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate सीमाएँ रै also been explained as mantle plumes.
ये so-called `` हॉटस्पॉट ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
erupting volcanoes can pose many hazards, not only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those with jet इंजन where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up इससे the धरती, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
A deep pothole on नई यॉर्क City 's Second Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a केतली and known in parts of the Western United States as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the surface of a roadway where a portion of the सड़क सामग्री रै broken away, leaving a hole.
Renal कोशिका carcinoma ( RCC, भी ज्ञात as hypernephroma ) is a kidney कर्कट that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule, the very small tubes in the kidney that transport GF ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the most common type of kidney cancer in वयस्कों, responsible for लगभग 80 % of मामले.
It is also known to be the most lethal of all the genitourinary tumors.
Initial treatment is most commonly a कट्टरपंथी or partial nephrectomy और remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year अस्तित्व rate is 60-70 %, but this is lowered considerably where metastases have spread.
It is relatively resistant to radiation चिकित्सा and chemotherapy, although some cases respond to immunotherapy.
Targeted कर्कट therapies ऐसे as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, और sorafenib have improved the outlook लिये rcc.
Estée Lauder Companies, Inc. is a निर्माता और marketer of प्रतिष्ठा skincare, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.
the company रै its headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, नई York City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane that forms the अस्तर of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it कवर most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and कुछ invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is composed of a layer of mesothelium समर्थित by a thin layer of connective tissue.
the peritoneum both supports the abdominal organs and serves as a conduit for their blood और lymph बरतन और nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal muscles, diaphragm और pelvic floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( स्तिथ within the abdominal cavity, but लपेटा in peritoneum ).
The structures भीतर the intraperitoneal space are पुकारा `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal cavity that हैं स्तिथ पीछे the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the गुर्दे ), और those structures below the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
Modern 2.5 '' SSD used in consumer laptops और desktop कंप्यूटर.
ddr sdram आधारित SSD.
अधिकतम and.
पीसीआई attached IO Accelerator SSD
PCI-E, DRAM, and NAND based ssd.
It uses an external power supply to make the DRAM non-volatile.
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( भी known as a solid-state disk or electronic disk, हालांकि it contains no actual `` disk '' of any kind ) is a data भंडार device using integrated सर्किट assemblies as मेमोरी to स्टोर आंकड़ा persistently.
ssd प्रौद्योगिकी uses electronic interfaces compatible with traditional block input/output ( I/O ) hard disk drives.
SSDs have no moving mechanical components, which distinguish them from परंपरागत electromechanical चुम्बकीय disks ऐसे as hard disk drives ( hdds ) or फ्लॉपी disks, which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads.
Compared साथ electromechanical डिस्क, SSDs are typically कम susceptible to physical shock, much quieter, have lower access time, and कम latency.
However, while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in 2012, ssds are still about 7 to 8 times more expensive per unit of storage than HDDs.
Many SSDs use I/O अंतरफलक developed for hard disk drives, thus permitting सरल replacement in आम applications.
, most SSDs उपयोग NAND-based flash memory, which retains data without power.
For applications requiring fast access, but not necessarily आंकड़ा persistence after शक्ति loss, SSDs may be constructed from random-access मेमोरी ( RAM ).
Such devices may employ separate शक्ति sources, such as batteries, to maintain data बाद power loss.
Hybrid ड्राइव or solid state संकर drives ( sshd ) combine the सुविधाएँ of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve प्रदर्शन of frequently accessed data.
These devices may प्रस्ताव near-SSD performance for many अनुप्रयोग.
Salmon roe ( left ) और sturgeon caviar ( right ) served with mother of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
Ossetra caviar, salmon creme fraiche, आलू shallot croquette, basil oil, अंडा whites और yolks
caviar, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, is a product बना from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family.
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, with pasteurization reducing its culinary and economic value.
Traditionally the पद caviar refers only to roe इससे जंगली sturgeon in the कैस्पियन and Black Seas ( Beluga, Ossetra and sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the country, caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other मछली such as salmon, steelhead, trout, lumpfish, whitefish, और अन्य प्रजाति of sturgeon.
Caviar is माना a luxury कोमलता और is eaten as a गार्निश or a spread.
In 2012, caviar बेची for $ 2,500 per pound, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 प्रति kilo.
the SEC Network is a टेलीविज़न syndication network featuring सजीव broadcasts of कॉलेज football and basketball events from the southeastern Conference.
it is owned और operated by ईएसपीएन Plus and is दिखाया in more than 50 percent of households in the United States, mostly Southeastern संयुक्त States markets.
The SEC Network typically airs in the noon eastern slot कि थी former home to the Raycom खेल SEC game of the week.
खेल are shown locally on broadcast stations, regional खेल networks, as well as on ESPN GamePlan, ESPN Full Court, and ESPN3.com.
the सेक Network is भी available in Canada via अटलांटा 's wpch-tv.
The सेक Network uses the same on-screen graphics currently used by ESPN on ABC, a संस्करण of ESPN 's graphics package.
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because most of its affiliates do नहीं Letterbox their Standard Definition फ़ीड्स, while ESPN 's television networks have अनुमत their graphics to abandon the title सुरक्षित, but letterbox for SD viewers.
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball season, SEC Network 's graphics have been converted to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format.
This is also होने प्रयुक्त लिये the 2013 Basketball season, लकिन had still adapted the पूर्व 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012 SEC football season.
The 1990s, pronounced और also ज्ञात as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the Nineties '' or `` the '90s '', was a decade that began on January 1, 1990, and ended on December 31, 1999.
It was the 10th और last decade of the 20th century and the 100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium.
the decade is best ज्ञात for the समाप्त of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade and the expansion and commercialization of the Internet during the second half of the decade.
in much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity, हालांकि many भाग of the so-called Third World faced विभिन्न problems including genocide, AIDS and new or continuing जातीय tensions and civil युद्धों.
Culturally speaking the decade was characterized by the rise of multiculturalism and alternative media.
Movements ऐसे as grunge, the rave scene और hip hop spread around the संसार to young people during the decade, aided by then-new technology such as cable television and the Internet.
A संयोजन of factors, including the mass mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism, the beginning of the widespread proliferation of new मीडिया ऐसे as the Internet, and the dissolution of the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of आर्थिक and राजनैतिक शक्ति across the world, and within countries.
Income inequality among countries in the world रोज़ sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s, पहले levelling off and तब falling after 2000.
New जातीय विरोध emerged in Africa, the Balkans and the Caucasus, the पूर्व दो which led to the Rwandan नरसंहार और Bosnian genocide, respectively.
The United States began its current military occupation of the Middle ईस्ट during the summer of 1990 with मरुस्थल शील्ड after it काटें off a large portion of the world 's पेट्रोलियम supply.
Signs of कोई resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab world remained elusive, though the Irish Troubles came to a standstill in 1998 with the Good शुक्रवार अनुबंध बाद 30 सालो of हिंसा.
The धूसर wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a species of canid native to the wilderness and remote क्षेत्रों of North America, यूरेशिया, and North Africa.
It is the largest सदस्य of its family, साथ males averaging, and females.
It is similar in general appearance और proportions to a German shepherd, or sled dog, but has a larger head, narrower chest, longer legs, straighter tail and bigger paws.
इसके winter fur is long and bushy, and predominantly a mottled धूसर in colour, although nearly pure श्वेत, red, or brown to ब्लैक also occur.
Within the genus Canis, the धूसर wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins ( the coyote and golden jackal ), as demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to hunting विशाल शिकार, its more मिलनसार nature और its highly advanced expressive behavior.
It is a social animal, travelling in nuclear families consisting of a mated pair, accompanied by the pair 's adult offspring.
The धूसर wolf is typically an apex परभक्षी throughout इसके range, with only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it.
It फ़ीड्स primarily on large ungulates, though it also eats smaller animals, livestock, carrion, और garbage.
The gray wolf is one of the world 's most खूब researched animals, with probably more books written about it than any other wildlife प्रजाति.
It has a long history of association with इंसानो, having been despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock, while conversely being respected by some Native American tribes.
it is the sole ancestor of the श्वान, which was first domesticated in the मध्य East.
Although the fear of wolves is prevalent in many इंसान societies, the बहुमत of recorded attacks on people have महरूम attributed to animals suffering from rabies.
non-rabid wolves have attacked and मारे people, mainly children, लकिन इस is असामान्य, as wolves are relatively few, सजीव away from people, and have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds.
Hunting and trapping has घटाया the species ' range to, though its still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global level, and is therefore वर्गीकृत by the IUCN as तनिक Concern.
the Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization, characterised by an निरंकुश form of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, had been destabilized through a series of civil युद्धों.
Several events marked the transition इससे Republic to Empire, including Julius सीज़र 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the रोमन Senate ( 27 bc ).
The first two सदियां of the साम्राज्य were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` रोमन Peace '' ).
It पहुँचे its महानतम expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its अस्तित्व, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th century, during which time a system of डुअल rule थी developed in the लैटिन West और Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century, the eastern हाफ continued as what would later be known as the बीज़ान्टिन साम्राज्य.
Because of the Empire 's विशाल extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of रोम had a profound and lasting influence on the development of भाषा, religion, architecture, दर्शनशास्त्र, law, and forms of सरकारी in the territory it governed, particularly यूरोपीय, and by अर्थात् of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the संयुक्त States is mainly provided by the public sector, with कंट्रोल और funding coming from three levels : local, state, and federal, in कि order.
Child शिक्षा is अनिवार्य, and there are also a large number and wide किस्में of उच्चतर शिक्षा institutions throughout the country that one can choose to attend, both सरेआम and privately administered.
Public शिक्षा is universally available.
School curricula, funding, teaching, employment, and अन्य नीतियों are set through locally elected school boards साथ jurisdiction over school districts with many directives from state विधानमंडलों.
School districts are usually separate इससे other लोकल jurisdictions, with independent officials and budgets.
Educational standards and मानकीकृत testing decisions are usually बना by राज्य governments.
The आयु for अनिवार्य education vary by state.
It begins from ages five to eight और ends from आयु fourteen to eighteen.
Compulsory education requirements can generally be satisfied by educating children in public schools, state-certified private schools, or an approved home स्कूल program.
In most पब्लिक and private schools, education is divided into three levels : elementary स्कूल, middle school ( sometimes पुकारा junior high school ), and high school ( sometimes referred to as secondary शिक्षा ).
In almost all schools at these स्तर, children हैं divided by आयु समूह into ग्रेड, ranging from kindergarten ( followed by first grade ) for the youngest children in elementary school, up to twelfth grade, the final year of high school.
The exact age दायरा of विद्यार्थी in these grade स्तर varies slightly from क्षेत्रफल to area.
post-secondary education, better known as `` college `` in the United States, is generally governed separately from the elementary and high school system, and is वर्णित in a पृथक section below.
Government supported, free public schools for all started being established after the revolution, and expanded in the 19th century, as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington.
By 1870, all states था free elementary schools, albeit तभी in urban centers.
As the 20th century drew nearer, states प्रारंभ गुजर laws to make schooling अनिवार्य, and by 1910, 72 percent of children attended school.
Private schools जारी to स्प्रेड during this time, as well as colleges and—in the rural centers— जमीन ग्रान्ट colleges.
The year of 1910 also देखी the पहला true high schools.
During the बाकी of the 20th century, educational प्रयत्न centered on reducing the inequality of the schooling system.
The landmark Supreme Court मामला Brown v. फलक of Education made the desegregation of elementary and high schools a national priority, while the pell Grant program helped ग़रीब minorities gain अभिगम to कॉलेज.
Special शिक्षा was बना into federal law in 1975.
The Elementary and Secondary Education अधिनियम of 1965 made standardized testing a requirement, and in 1983, a commission was established to evaluate their results and propose a कोर्स of action.
The resulting No Child बाएँ Behind Act of 2001 was controversial and its goals proved to be unrealistic.
A commission स्थापित in 2006 evaluated higher education, लकिन इसके recommendations have yet to be fully implemented.
पॉल ब्रैग ( February 6, 1895 – December 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, was a pioneer in America’s wellness movement.
स्वास्थ्य spending per capita, in $ US ppp-adjusted, with the US and Canada compared amongst अन्य first संसार nations.
Comparison of the health परवाह systems in कनाडा and the United States are often made by government, public health and public नीति विश्लेषकों.
The दो देशों had similar health care systems before Canada reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s.
the United राज्य spends much more धन on health परवाह than कनाडा, on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita spending for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed by government, versus 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending प्रति capita in the U.S. on health परवाह was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on health care थी just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( पब्लिक and private ) though ये आंकडे do n't take into account population differences.
अध्ययन have come to different conclusions परिचय the result of this disparity in spending.
A 2007 पुनर्विलोकन of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada और the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States, but मतभेद are not सतत. ''
Life expectancy is longer in कनाडा, और its शिशु mortality rate is lower than कि of the U.S., but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall स्वास्थ्य सेवा performance '', which used a `` कम्पोजिट measure of achievement in the level of स्वास्थ्य, the distribution of health, the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial योगदान '', क्रमित Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of service लिये individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy लिये Canadians थी 80.34 सालो compared with 78.6 years for residents of the us, simply comparing the life expectancy of two समूह साथ different racial मेकअप and different obesity rates is संभावित not an प्रभावी way of determining which healthcare प्रणाली is श्रेष्ठ.
The जो 's study विधि were criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy और शिशु mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent आंकड़ा and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
The sound source has now broken through the sound speed barrier, और is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of ध्वनि, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is moving faster ( with a speed ) than the sound waves it creates, it दरअसल leads the advancing wavefront.
The sound source will pass by a stationary observer ( with a speed ) before the observer actually hears the sound it creates.
As a result, an observer in सामने of the source होगा detect
and an observer behind the सोर्स.
A sonic बूम produced by an aircraft moving at M=2.92, calculated from the कोन कोण of 20 डिग्री.
An observer hears the boom जब the shock wave, on the edges of the cone, crosses his or her स्थान.
Mach cone angle
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the शॉक लहरें created by an object traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound.
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of sound energy, sounding much like an explosion.
The crack of a supersonic गोली passing ओवरहेड is an example of a sonic boom in miniature.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an अमरीकी late-night talk show hosted by Jay Leno कि initially aired इससे May 25, 1992 to May 29, 2009, and resumed production on March 1, 2010.
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made इसके debut on may 25, 1992, तीन days following जॉनी Carson 's retirement as host of the program.
The program originates from NBC Studios in burbank, California, and is broadcast Monday through Friday at 11:35 PM in the Eastern और Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ).
Unlike Carson or उसके पूर्ववर्ती Jack Paar, लीनो only once utilized a guest host, preferring to host the series by खुद.
On अप्रैल 26, 1999, the दिखाएँ began broadcasting in 1080i HDTV, becoming the first American nightly talk show to be shot in high definition.
The show is shot in 16:9 aspect अनुपात.
the series, which followed the same मौलिक स्वरूप as कि of his predecessors ( an opening monologue followed by comedy routines, interviews and performances ), ran until May 29, 2009, बाद which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
NBC signed Leno to a नई deal लिये a nightly talk show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
The primetime series, titled the Jay Leno Show, debuted on September 14, 2009, following a similar format to the Leno अवतार of Tonight.
neither O'Brien 's संस्करण of the program, जिससे premiered June 1, 2009, nor The Jay Leno Show उत्पन्न the ratings that NBC था expected.
the network decided to move a condensed 30-minute version of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time slot, and O'Brien 's tonight Show a half-hour later.
This decision मिले साथ opposition इससे O'Brien, whose stint on The Tonight Show ended January 22, 2010, after which he began his own talk show on TBS.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno तब began its second and current अवतार, the छठे of the franchise, on March 1, 2010.
RFID chip next to a grain of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil कि modulates an external चुम्बकीय field to ट्रांसफ़र a coded identification क्रमांक when queried by a रीडर device.
This small type is incorporated in consumer उत्पाद, and implanted in पालतु, for identification उद्देश्य.
radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा, for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically stored सूचना.
कुछ टैग are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via चुम्बकीय fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others उपयोग a local power source such as a बैटरी, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM field, and तब act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery संचालित tags may operate at सैंकड़ों of meters.
नापसंद a bar code, the टैग does not necessarily need to be within line of sight of the reader, और may be embedded in the tracked object.
RFID tags are used in many industries.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be प्रयुक्त to track its progress through the assembly लकीर.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
पशुधन और pets may have टैग injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the possibility of reading personally-linked information without consent has उठाया privacy concerns.
Id, ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus defined in Sigmund फ्रायड 's structural model of the psyche ; they are the three theoretical constructs in terms of जिनकी activity and interaction दिमागी life is described.
According to this मॉडल of the psyche, the id is the नियत of uncoordinated instinctual रुझान ; the super-ego plays the critical and moralizing भूमिका ; and the अहंकार is the organized, realistic part that mediates between the desires of the id और the super-ego.
The super-ego can stop you इससे doing certain things कि your id may want you to do.
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus, the id, ego और super-ego हैं functions of the दिमाग rather than parts of the brain and do not correspond one-to-one साथ actual somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the विकास of Freud 's विचार : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` आर्थिक मॉडल '' और `` topographical model '' ) was first discussed in his 1920 essay `` Beyond the Pleasure Principle `` और थी formalized and elaborated upon three सालो later in his `` The Ego and the Id ``.
Freud 's proposal was influenced by the ambiguity of the term `` unconscious `` and its अनेक conflicting उपयोग.
Air फ़ोर्स ROTC emblem
the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the United States Air Force, the अन्य two being the United States Air फ़ोर्स Academy ( USAFA ) and Air Force अधिकारी Training School ( OTS ).
A subordinate command of the Air University within the एयर Education and Training कमांड ( aetc ), AFROTC is aligned under the Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB, अलबामा.
The Holm Center, formerly known as the Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools ( AFOATS ), retains direct responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS.
AFROTC is the largest और oldest सोर्स of commissioned officers for the U.S. एयर Force.
AFROTC 's stated mission is to produce quality leaders for the U.S. Air फ़ोर्स.
AFROTC इकाई are located on 144 कॉलेज और university campuses with 984 अतिरिक्त institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town agreements that allow their students to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' कॉलेज or university.
According to AFOATS HQ, in 2006, AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF Second Lieutenants, with AFROTC नामांकन ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, and around 13,000 enrolled today.
AFROTC units at colleges and विश्वविद्यालयों are called `` detachments, '' and हैं typically headed by an active duty USAF officer in the रैंक of colonel or लेफ्टिनेंट कर्नल जो कृत्यों as both the Detachment कमांडर for यूएसएएफ purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( pas ) within the institution 's academic जातियाँ.
Most colleges and विश्वविद्यालयों will designate the AFROTC detachment as the Department of aerospace Studies.
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors of Aerospace Studies ( APAS ), सब active duty USAF officers in the बाँधने of major or captain.
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide military administrative support and are often augmented by one to two civilian staff support employees of the अकादमिक संस्था.
Within AFROTC detachments, the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are organized into wings, groups, squadrons, और flights, mirroring the USAF functional wing structure.
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into दो divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC ) consisting of the first two years of training, and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of प्रशिक्षण.
The AFROTC program is also divided into दो training functions : the Academic Classroom Program ( Aerospace Studies classes ) और cadet Activities ( i.e., Leadership Laboratory, शारीरिक Training, and other training ).
Paper घनत्व ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term used in the pulp and paper उद्योग और भी for कपड़ा उद्योग to denote a माप of mass of the उत्पाद प्रति unit of area लिये a type of fabric, paper or paperboard.
The term `` density '' is not used in its traditional sense of mass per unit आवाज़.
`` Paper density '', rather, is a measure of the area density.
Paper products that let little or no light pass through ( e.g. पोस्टर board ) are considered घना or heavy.
Paper products that allow कुछ light to pass through ( e.g. tissue paper ) are माना lightweight.
in the pulp और पेपर industry, it is common to set a commercial paper machine to उपज paper to a target paper density.
Paper density can also be used to distinguish paper from paperboard as the latter usually has a grammage greater than 134 g/m2.
Two ways of expressing paper density are commonly used:
expressed in grams per वर्गाकार meter ( g/m2 ), paper density is also known as grammage.
This is the measure used in most भाग of the world.
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as weight ) per number of चादरें, it is ज्ञात as basis वज़न.
The convention प्रयुक्त in the United States and a few other देशों using US पेपर sizes is pounds of a ream of 500 ( or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a given ( raw, still uncut ) basis size.
जापानी paper is expressed as the weight in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19, 1986 ) is an American basketball खिलाड़ी for the WNBA 's Los Angeles Sparks और UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia.
She is the younger sister of NBA player एंथोनी Parker.
वो attended the University of Tennessee and was drafted by the Sparks in 2008.
She may be best known for being the पहला woman to dunk in an NCAA tournament game और the first स्त्री to dunk twice in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on March 19, 2006.
She भी became only the दूसरी player to dunk in a wnba खेल on June 22, 2008.
A बहुमुखी player, she is मुख्यतः a आगे, but was listed on Tennessee 's रोस्टर as a forward, center, and guard.
She was a starter on the Lady Vols basketball team, winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships.
Parker won the 2009 Nickelodeon बच्चे ' Choice award as the favorite female athlete in the sports श्रेणी.
And she was a guest star on Figure It Out.
A food मार्गदर्शिका पिरामिड is a पिरामिड तराशा guide of healthy foods divided into sections to show the recommended intake for each food group.
The first food pyramid was published in स्वीडन in 1974.
The most widely ज्ञात food pyramid was introduced by the United States Department of कृषि in the year 1992, was updated in 2005, and then replaced in 2011.
over 25 अन्य countries and organisations have also published food पिरामिडों.
hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; अप्रैल 2, 1805august 4, 1875 ) was a Danish लेखक और poet.
Although a prolific writer of plays, travelogues, novels, and poems, Andersen is best remembered लिये his fairy tales, a साहित्यिक विधा he so mastered that he खुद रै become as mythical as the किस्से he wrote.
andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; his stories—called, or `` fantastic tales '' —express विषयवस्तु that transcend age and nationality.
During his आजीवन he थी acclaimed for having प्रसन्न children worldwide और was feted by royalty.
andersen 's fairy tales, which have been translated into अधिक than 125 भाषाएं, have become culturally embedded in the वेस्ट 's सामूहिक consciousness, readily accessible to children, but पेश lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well.
They have inspired गति pictures, plays, नाटिकाओं, and एनिमेटेड films.
Two figures locking eyes in Caravaggio 's The सौभाग्य Teller
Eye contact occurs when `` two लोगों look at प्रत्येक other 's eyes at the same time. ''
in human beings, eye सम्पर्क is a form of nonverbal communication and is thought to have a large influence on social behavior.
Coined in the जल्दी to mid-1960s, the पद has आइये in the West to often define the अधिनियम as a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication.
the customs and significance of eye contact vary widely between cultures, with religious and सोशल differences often altering its meaning greatly.
The study of eye सम्पर्क is sometimes known as oculesics.
Bed bugs हैं parasitic insects of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood.
The term सबसे commonly refers to सदस्यों of the genus Cimex of which Cimex lectularius, the common bed bug, is the best known as it prefers to feed on human blood although other cimex species are specialized to other animals, e.g., चमगादड़ bugs, C. pipistrelli ( Europe ), C. pilosellus ( western us ), and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ).
The नाम of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the preferred आवास of Cimex lectularius : warm houses and विशेषकर आसपास or अंदर of beds and bedding or other sleep areas.
bed bugs are mainly active at night, but हैं not exclusively nocturnal.
वे usually feed on their hosts without होने noticed.
A number of adverse health effects may result इससे bed bug bites, including skin rashes, psychological effects, and allergic symptoms.
Diagnosis involves both finding bed bugs and the occurrence of संगत symptoms.
Bed bugs have been ज्ञात as human parasites for thousands of सालो.
At a point in the early 1940s, they were mostly eradicated in the विकसित world, लकिन have increased in prevalence since 1995.
Because infestation of इंसान habitats has been on the increase, bed bug bites और related शर्तें have been on the rise as well.
The किताब of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, preceding Ezekiel, Jeremiah और the Book of the Twelve.
( the order of the subsequent books differs somewhat in the Christian Old वसीयत ).
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a गुनाहगार Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God, while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel and a नई creation in God 's glorious future kingdom ; this section शामिल the Songs of the कष्ट Servant, four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel, interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah बेटे of Amoz, but now scholars widely agree कि the book is the कार्य of तीन different लेखक - few scholars इनकार this view, and those that do, do so लिये theological reasons.
the first, termed Proto-Isaiah ( अध्याय 1–39 ), contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the दूसरी, Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century BCE author writing near the end of the babylonian captivity ; and the third, the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ), थी composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from निर्वासन, probably by अनेक authors.
Oregon State University ( OSU ) is a coeducational, public research विश्वविद्यालयों located in Corvallis, Oregon, United States.
The विश्वविद्यालयों offers undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees and a multitude of research opportunities.
There हैं more than 200 academic degree कार्यक्रम offered through the university.
OSU 's programs in microbiology, nuclear engineering, ecology, forestry, पब्लिक health, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, खाना science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier कार्यक्रम.
The osu 's liberal arts programs have also grown significantly and the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution.
More than 200,000 people have attended OSU चूंकि its founding.
the Carnegie Foundation classifies Oregon State University as part of its top tier of research institutions.
As of 2008, OSU is one of only seventy-three land-grant universities.
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant and sun-grant institution, making it one of only two US institutions to retain all four designations and the only public university to do so ( कॉर्नेल is the तभी other with similar designations ).
As one of the दो flagship universities of the ऑरेगॉन University System, osu receives more funding for research, annually, than all अन्य पब्लिक higher education institutions in Oregon combined.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is भी known colloquially as gushing or squirting, हालांकि ये are माना to be different phenomena in some research publications.
The exact सोर्स and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals, which is also सम्बन्धित to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or species of small, air-breathing जमीन snail, a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the परिवार Succineidae, the amber snails.
the common name of the amber snails is based on the शेल, which is translucent और when empty usually resembles amber in color.
This प्रजाति is endemic to the United States, specifically the state of Arizona और यूटा, जहाँ it was पहला collected in the early 20th century.
It has महरूम listed as endangered on the United States Fish and Wildlife Service list of endangered species since 8 August 1991.
इस snail lives in wetlands, springs, and seeps, and only two of इसके natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes, a meadow near Kanab, यूटा, and Vasey 's स्वर्ग, a spring along the Colorado River भीतर Grand Canyon National पार्क.
In its natural habitat it is बल्कि polyphagous, feeding mainly on bacteria, plants और fungi, and reproduces during the summer.
Now माना a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN रेड List of Threatened Species due to a series of factors ( including influence ), the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs above the ऐतिहासिक ऊँची water level along the Colorado River.
The Spanish language is the second most used language in the United States.
There are more स्पेनी अध्यक्षों in the United States than there हैं speakers of चाइनीज, French, German, इतालवी, Hawaiian, और the Native American languages combined.
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, Spanish is the primary language बोला at home by almost 37 million people aged five or पुरानी, a figure more than double that of 1990.
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or दूसरी language, as well as six लाख Spanish language students, composing the largest national Spanish-speaking जातियाँ outside of Mexico and बनाना Spanish the Romance language and the Indo-European language with largest number of native speakers in the world.
Roughly half of सब U.S. स्पेनी speakers also speak English `` very खूब, '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
the language came to the देश since the 16th and 17th centuries with the आगमन of Spanish colonists in क्षेत्रों that would later become the states of Florida, टेक्सास, Colorado, New Mexico, एरिज़ोना, नेवाडा, Utah, and कैलिफ़ोर्निया and of the स्पेनी explorers - who explored क्षेत्रों of 42 states-.
Also वेस्ट of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery of territory ), बाद the French और Indian युद्ध.
After of the incorporation of ये states to the U.S. in पहला half of 19th century, the Spanish language was later reinforced by the acquisition of Puerto Rico in 1898 and by later waves of the Hispanic emigration, basically from Hispanic America, to the United राज्य beginning in the दूसरी हाफ of 19th century जबतक आज.
is a Latin word कि means `` यूँ '' or, in writing, `` it was यूँ in the source सामग्री ''.
Sic may also refer to:
Sic, cluj, a commune in रोमानिया
SIC, the regional कोड लिये Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], stage नाम of Jennifer Morris, a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash मेटल band from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC, the initial of Marco simoncelli.
SIC as an acronym may stand for:
SiC, Silicon कार्बाइड, a semiconducting material, also प्रयुक्त to मेक metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century U.S. प्रणाली for classifying उद्योग
International Standard Industrial Classification a UN system for economic क्रियाएँ
शेटलैंड Islands Council
the Swiss Interbank Clearing system
San Isidro Club, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee, a committee dedicated to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
schwarz information criterion in the field of आंकडे
Second-in-command in the field of विमानन
Sistema Interconectado Central शक्ति grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ), a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City, New Jersey, a coastal town in the United States
Segmented Integer Counter विधि, a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a high-end racetrack that hosts the मलेशियाई round of Formula 1
Shanghai International सर्किट, a motor racing venue in शंघाई, China
Simplified निर्देशात्मक computer, a काल्पनिक computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ), an early twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a दो year Junior College in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific inductive क्षमता, abbreviated to SIC, which is अधिक commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric निरंतर
St ignatius ' College, riverview, a Jesuit school in सिडनी, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=five smiling young girls in various मुद्राएँ wearing white smocks over thigh-length पोशाक of similar रंग to उनके hair.
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga and दुश्मनी series features a cast of characters designed by Mia Ikumi.
The series takes प्लेस in Tokyo, जापानी, where five adolescent girls, पुकारा mew Mews, are infused with the DNA of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take over the धरती.
The manga series is followed by a छोटी sequel series, Tokyo Mew Mew a la Mode, which introduces a new mew Mew and a new threat.
The Mew mews are led by the प्रमुख character, Ichigo Momomiya, whose first task is to एकत्रित the other four Mew Mews : Mint Aizawa, Lettuce Midorikawa, Pudding फोंग, and zakuro Fujiwara.
As the series progresses, Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya aoyama to becoming उसके girlfriend जबकि trying to hide her secret double life from उसे.
The series antagonists शामिल तीन aliens, Kish, Pie, and Tart, and their नेता, Deep ब्लू.
Originally from Earth, the aliens were forced to leave long ago due to deadly environmental changes.
They have returned to kill the humans, जो वे feel are destroying their ग्रह, and reclaim the planet.
In a la Mode, middle school छात्र बेरी Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew mew and, in the अनुपस्थिति of ichigo, the temporary leader of the Mew Mews.
A la विधि भी introduces new set of antagonists, the Saint Rose Crusaders, a group of human teenagers with various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia.
Led by ड्यूक, they make several attempts to kill Berry, eventually turning the local populace against the mew Mews.
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo mew mew was a स्टोरी called Tokyo Black बिल्ली Girl कि featured a cat-girl battling एलियन invaders.
After the story was transitioned to a अधिक upbeat स्टोरी of पाँच female superheroes, the character designs were redone to have a lighter, more colorful feel.
The प्रमुख श्रेणी characters were praised for being a perfect fit for the overall story, as well as for their cute appearances.
The वर्ण introduced in a la Mode were also praised लिये their विज़ुअल दिखावे, but criticized as being दोहराव of the original श्रेणी.
The character Duke was also criticized लिये having a design reminiscent of the white सर्वोच्चता group, the ku Klux Klan.
मध्य Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below ) and limestones ( above ), Virgin Formation, southwestern यूटा, यूएसए
Sedimentary rocks are types of चट्टान that are formed by the deposition of सामग्री at the Earth 's सतह and within bodies of water.
Sedimentation is the collective name for प्रक्रियाओं that cause mineral and/or सशुल्क particles ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate इससे a solution.
अणु that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating हैं called sediment.
Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering और erosion in a सोर्स area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, हवा, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are पुकारा agents of denudation.
The sedimentary rock cover of the महाद्वीपों of the Earth 's क्रस्ट is extensive, but the कुल contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8 % of the total volume of the crust.
Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary रॉक्स are deposited in परतों as strata, forming a structure पुकारा bedding.
The पढ़ाई of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering, for उदाहरण in the construction of roads, houses, tunnels, canals or other constructions.
Sedimentary रॉक्स are भी important sources of natural resources like coal, चट्टान fuels, पीने water or ores.
The study of the sequence of sedimentary rock strata is the main source for scientific ज्ञान about the Earth 's history, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the history of life.
the scientific discipline कि studies the properties and origin of sedimentary रॉक्स is called sedimentology.
Sedimentology is both भाग of भूविज्ञान और physical geography and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the Earth sciences, ऐसे as pedology, geomorphology, geochemistry or structural geology.
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones, some of which fuse साथ into a longitudinal axis, the axial skeleton, to which the appendicular skeleton is attached.
Saint पैट्रिक ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 March c. 460 or c. 492 ) थी a romano-british Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland.
Known as the `` apostle of Ireland '', he is the primary patron संत of the island साथ with Saints Brigid and columba.
दो authentic letters from him survive, इससे which आइये the only generally accepted details of his life.
When he थी about 16, he was captured इससे उसके घर और लिया as a slave to आयरलैंड, जहाँ he lived for छह years before escaping and returning to his family.
After becoming a cleric, he returned to northern and पश्चिमी Ireland as an ordained बिशप, but little is ज्ञात about the स्थान where he worked.
By the seventh century, he had already come to be revered as the patron saint of आयरलैंड.
Most उपलब्धियाँ details of his जीवन are from subsequent hagiographies, and ये are अभी not accepted without detailed criticism.
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in Ireland in 432, ministered in Ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
The टेक्स्ट, however, distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( thought to mean palladius ) and `` Patrick, archapostle of the Scots, '' जो died in 492.
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but, on a widespread interpretation, he was active as a missionary in आयरलैंड during the second हाफ of the 5th सदी.
He is generally credited with being the पहला bishop of Armagh, Primate of सब Ireland.
संत Patrick 's Day is observed on March 17, the date of उसके मौत.
it is celebrated both inside and outside आयरलैंड, as both a religious and, especially बाहर Ireland, धर्मनिरपेक्ष holiday.
In the dioceses of Ireland, it is both a solemnity and a पावन day of obligation ; outside Ireland, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
लकीर segments in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle साथ longer side a and shorter side b, when placed adjacent to a वर्गाकार with sides of length a, will produce a similar सुनहरी rectangle with longer side a + b और shorter side a.
इस illustrates the relationship.
In mathematics और the arts, two quantities are in the golden ratio if the ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one.
The figure on the right illustrates the geometric संबंध.
Expressed algebraically:
जहाँ the Greek letter phi ( ) represents the golden ratio.
Its value is:
The सुनहरी ratio is also called the सुनहरी section ( Latin : sectio ओरिया ) or golden mean.
Other names शामिल extreme and mean ratio, medial section, divine proportion, divine खण्ड ( Latin : sectio divina ), golden proportion, golden cut, and golden number.
Many 20th century artists और architects have proportioned their works to approximate the golden ratio—especially in the form of the golden आयताकार, in which the अनुपात of the longer side to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ).
mathematicians since Euclid have studied the गुण of the golden ratio, सहित its appearance in the dimensions of a नियमित pentagon and in a golden आयताकार, which can be cut into a square and a छोटी rectangle with the वही aspect ratio.
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze the proportions of natural objects as खूब as man-made systems such as financial बाज़ार, in some cases based on dubious fits to data.
North Myrtle Beach is a coastal resort city in Horry County, South कैरोलिना, संयुक्त States.
It थी created in 1968 from चार existing municipalities north of Myrtle Beach, and serves as one of the primary tourist towns along the ग्रैंड Strand.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 13,752 at the 2010 census.
World War I ( wwi ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It थी predominantly called the World War or the ग्रेट War from इसके occurrence until the start of संसार War ii in 1939, और the First World War or World युद्ध I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, जिससे were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, फ़्रांस and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of जर्मनी, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as austria–hungary had लिया the offensive against the agreement, Italy did नहीं enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
ultimately, अधिक than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 लाख combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world इतिहास, subsequently paving the way लिये various राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the पुनरुत्थान of imperialism in the विदेशी policies of the great powers of यूरोपीय.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of ऑस्ट्रिया, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by यूगोस्लाव nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when austria-hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
on 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the first shots of the war as तैयारी for the invasion of Serbia.
जबकि the Russians mobilised, the germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli for ब्रिटेन 's declaration of war विरूद्ध Germany.
After the German march on Paris थी brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the पश्चिमी Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a गर्त line that changed little until 1917.
on the Eastern Front, the Russian फौज was कामयाब against the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
in नवम्बर the उस्मानी Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia और the Sinai.
Italy और Bulgaria गई to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had इसके own trouble with revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and आर्थिक resources to fight a total war.
by the समाप्त of the war, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the German, Russian, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former दो lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
the map of central Europe थी redrawn into several smaller states.
the League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war और the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are सहमत to be factors contributing to World War II.
camden is a city in Camden County, New Jersey, संयुक्त States.
it is the county seat, located across the Delaware River from फिलाडेल्फिया.
as of the 2010 United States Census the city had a total population of 77,344, representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) इससे the 79,904 residents enumerated during the 2000 Census, जिससे था in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) इससे the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census.
camden ranked as the 12th-most populous municipality in the state in 2010 after having been ranked 10th in 2000.
Camden was originally incorporated as a city on February 13, 1828, from portions of the now-defunct Newton Township, while the area was स्टिल part of Gloucester County.
on March 13, 1844, Camden became part of the newly formed Camden काउंटी.
हालांकि once a thriving center for manufacturing and industry, Camden is perhaps best known for इसके struggles साथ urban dysfunction.
Three Camden mayors have been jailed for corruption, the most recent being Milton Milan in 2000.
Since 2005 the school प्रणाली and police department have been operated by the state of New Jersey ; the takeover expired in 2012.
In 2008, Camden था the उच्चतम crime rate in the U.S. साथ 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 people while the national average थी 455 per 100,000.
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil आधार ) in the 2009–10 school year and two-thirds of the students graduate.
Two out of प्रत्येक five residents हैं below the national गरीबी line.
Amitriptyline ( tryptomer, Elavil, Tryptizol, Laroxyl, Saroten, sarotex, Lentizol, Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
it is the सबसे widely used TCA and has at least equal efficacy विरूद्ध अवसाद as the newer क्लास of ssris according to a पढ़ाई from जल्दी 2001.
as well as reducing depressive symptoms, these प्रकार of tricyclics भी ease migraines, टेंशन headaches, चिंता हमले and some schizophrenic symptoms.
It is also known to reduce aggression और violent बर्ताव.
a computer is a सामान्य purpose device that can be प्रोग्रामित to carry आउट a finite set of गणित or लॉजिकल operations.
Since a sequence of operations can be readily changed, the computer can solve more than one kind of problem.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at least one processing element, typically a सेंट्रल processing ईकाई ( CPU ) and some form of memory.
The प्रसंस्करण तत्व carries आउट arithmetic and logic operations, and a sequencing and control unit that can change the order of परिचालन based on stored information.
Peripheral devices allow सूचना to be retrieved from an external source, and the result of operations saved and retrieved.
The first electronic digital कंप्यूटर यहूद developed between 1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom और United States.
Originally they were the size of a large room, consuming as much power as अनेक hundred modern personal computers ( PCs ).
In this era mechanical analog computers were used for military applications.
Modern कंप्यूटर based on integrated circuits are लाखो to billions of times more capable than the early मशीने, and occupy a भिन्न of the space.
Simple computers हैं small enough to fit into mobile devices, and mobile computers can be powered by small batteries.
निजी computers in their विभिन्न forms are icons of the Information Age and are what most people think of as “computers.”
However, the embedded computers found in अनेक डिवाइस from MP3 players to fighter aircraft and इससे toys to industrial robots हैं the सबसे numerous.
`` Barefoot and गर्भवती '' is a phrase most commonly संबद्ध with the controversial idea that women चाहिए नहीं work outside the home and चाहिए have many children during उनके reproductive सालो.
it has several other meanings as खूब.
It is a फिगर of speech.
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' was probably first used sometime before 1950.
an article from 1949 states, `` By जल्दी 1949, TWA was—in the शब्द of its new president, Ralph S. damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Its usage may date as जल्दी as the 1910s.
An article published in 1958 states the phrase was first used by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 सालो earlier.
`` Some forty सालो ago, Dr. Hertzler उन्नत a hypothesis जिससे young women of today seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a woman happy, ' he said, 'is to keep her barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
oakhurst is a census-designated place और unincorporated जातियाँ within Ocean Township, in Monmouth County, New Jersey, United States.
As of the 2010 United States Census, the CDP 's population was 3,995.
University of Phoenix Stadium, opened August 1, 2006, is a multipurpose फ़ुटबॉल stadium located in Glendale, Arizona.
It is the home of the Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League ( NFL ) and the annual पर्व Bowl.
The stadium is located next door to the jobing.com एरिना and it features the first fully retractable natural grass playing surface built in the United राज्य on top of an AirField Systems drainage system.
An opening on one पक्ष of the stadium allows the playing फ़ील्ड to मूव to the exterior of the भवन, allowing the संपूर्ण natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII, and the 2011 BCS National Championship Game, a game that it hosts every four years, which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11, 2011.
It will again host Super कटोरी XLIX in 2015.
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming rights in September 2006, shortly after the stadium had opened अंतर्गत the name कार्डिनल्स Stadium.
The `` University of Phoenix `` नाम is applied as a corporate sponsor, and नहीं as the home stadium of the विश्वविद्यालयों ( which रै no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The स्टेडियम has also hosted the WWE event WrestleMania XXVI with 72,219 fans in attendance.
The इवेंट was held in the stadium on March 28th 2010.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as Lawrence Joshua Chamberlain, was an अमरीकी college professor from the State of maine, who volunteered during the अमरीकी Civil War to join the Union Army.
Although having no पहले education in military strategies, he became a highly respected and decorated Union officer, reaching the rank of ब्रिगेडियर general ( and brevet प्रमुख general ).
लिये उसके gallantry at Gettysburg, he was awarded the Medal of Honor.
He was given the honor of commanding the Union troops at the surrender ceremony for the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox, वर्जिनिया.
After the war, he entered politics as a Republican and served चार one-year terms of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine.
he served on the faculty, and as president, of his alma मेटर, Bowdoin College.
An inning, or पारी, is a fixed-length segment of a game in any of a variety of sports – most notably cricket और बेसबॉल during which one team attempts to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first from स्कोरिंग.
In cricket, the term innings is both singular and plural and is always spelled and pronounced with the terminal `` s ''.
In baseball and सॉफ्टबॉल, the singular form is inning and तभी the plural takes an `` s ''.
in many other sports, the length of the game is लिखवाई by a clock और teams swap offensive and रक्षात्मक roles dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item.
In baseball और क्रिकेट, however, एक टोली, said to be `` batting '', attempts to score `` runs '' —see run ( baseball ) और run ( क्रिकेट ) —while the other टोली, said to be `` fielding '', कोशिशें to prevent the scoring of रनों and get members of the बल्लेबाजी team out.
the teams switch places बाद the fielding team has succeeded in getting a fixed क्रमांक of players out, making a clock unnecessary.
in cricket, the term पारी is also प्रयुक्त to refer to the खेल of one particular player ( Smith had a poor innings, scoring तभी 12 ).
by extension, इस term can be used in British English for almost कोई activity जिससे takes a period of time ( The Liberal government had a good innings, but finally lost office in 1972, or You 've had a fair innings, now it 's my turn, meaning `` you have spoken for long enough, अभी let me speak '' ).
It is also प्रयुक्त in reference to someone जो has died at a reasonably old age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah, well.
जॉन was 89.
At least he था a good innings ).
The baseball-derived parallel to इस in American अंग्रेज़ी is the term at bat.
according to the Oxford English Dictionary, the term पारी has महरूम used in reference to क्रिकेट since at least 1735.
As cricket was a mature, highly व्यवस्थित sport in the 1600s in England, the term 's origin could well precede इस first recorded usage.
The word inning meaning 'a gathering in ' is first अंकित in 1522, and could be related.
Adenosine deaminase deficiency, also called ADA कमियां or ADA-SCID, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in fewer than one in 100,000 live births worldwide.
It खाते for परिचय 15 % of सब मामले of कठोर combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ).
It is very rare, you have a 3 % chance of getting this जीन.
एडीए कमियां may be present in infancy, childhood, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset और severity is related to some 29 known genotypes associated with the disorder.
An example of शहरी poverty in this slum in Jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the state of एक who lacks a certain amount of material possessions or money.
Absolute गरीबी or destitution refers to the deprivation of basic इंसान needs, which commonly includes खाना, जल, स्वच्छता, कपडे, shelter, स्वास्थ्य care and education.
Relative poverty is पारिभाषित contextually as economic असमानता in the location or society in which people live.
For much of history, poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional modes of production were insufficient to give an entire population a comfortable standard of living.
After the industrial क्रान्ति, mass उत्पादन in factories made wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
of more importance is the modernization of agriculture, such as fertilizers, in अनुक्रम to provide enough yield to feed the population.
The supply of basic needs can be प्रतिबंधित by constraints on government services such as corruption, tax avoidance, debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals.
Strategies of increasing income to मेक basic needs more affordable typically include welfare, आर्थिक freedoms, और providing financial services.
Poverty reduction is a major goal and issue for many international organizations such as the United Nations and the संसार Bank.
The World बैंको estimated 1.29 billion people were living in absolute poverty in 2008.
Of these, about 400 million people in absolute poverty lived in India and 173 लाख people in China.
In यूएसए 1 in 5 children जीवनदान in poverty.
In terms of प्रतिशत of regional populations, sub-saharan Africa at 47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute poverty in 2008.
between 1990 and 2010, about 663 million people moved above the absolute poverty level.
Still, चरम poverty is a global चुनौती ; it is observed in all parts of the world, including the developed economies.
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to harmful effects from ingestion of toxic substances present in a mushroom.
ये लक्षण can vary from slight gastrointestinal तकलीफ to मौत.
The toxins present are secondary metabolites produced in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
Mushroom विषाक्तता is usually the result of ingestion of wild mushrooms after misidentification of a विषाक्त mushroom as an edible species.
The most common कारण for this misidentification is close resemblance in terms of colour and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible प्रजाति.
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon rare occasion poisoned by खाने toxic species, despite being खूब aware of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent mushroom poisoning, mushroom gatherers need to be very familiar with the mushrooms they intend to collect as well as with कोई similar-looking विषाक्त species.
In addition, edibility of mushrooms may depend on methods of preparation for cooking.
Collectors भी need to be well जागरूक that edibility or toxicity of some species varies with geographic location.
Human height is the distance from the bottom of the फीट to the top of the head in a human body, standing erect.
जब populations share genetic background and पर्यावरणीय कारकों, average height is frequently characteristic within the group.
असाधारण ऊँचाई variation ( around 20 % deviation from average ) within such a population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities.
In regions of चरम गरीबी or prolonged warfare, environmental factors जैसे chronic malnutrition दौरान बाल्यकाल or adolescence may account for delayed growth and/or ( in severe cases ) चिह्नित reductions in adult stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first humans, अमेरिकी neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, on the Moon on July 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the पहला to कदम onto the lunar surface 6 घंटों later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Armstrong spent about दो and a half hours outside the spacecraft, Aldrin slightly less ; और together they collected of lunar सामग्री for return to Earth.
a तीसरा सदस्य of the mission, Michael Collins, piloted the command spacecraft alone in चंद्र orbit जबतक Armstrong और एल्ड्रिन returned to it just under a day later लिये the trip back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy स्पेस Center in Merritt Island, Florida on July 16, Apollo 11 was the पांचवां मानवयुक्त mission of NASA 's Apollo program.
The Apollo spacecraft था three parts : a Command Module with a cabin लिये the three astronauts which was the only part which landed back on Earth ; a Service Module which supported the Command Module with propulsion, electrical शक्ति, oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module लिये लैंडिंग on the Moon.
After being भेजा to the चंद्रमा by the शनि v 's upper stage, the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it and travelled for three days जबतक वे entered into lunar orbit.
Armstrong and Aldrin तब moved into the Lunar मोड्यूल and landed in the Sea of Tranquility.
वे stayed a total of about 21 and a half घंटों on the lunar surface.
बाद lifting बंद in the upper part of the Lunar मोड्यूल and rejoining Collins in the Command Module, they returned to Earth and landed in the प्रशांत Ocean on July 24.
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience, Armstrong stepped onto the lunar surface and described the event as `` one small step for [ a ] man, one giant leap for mankind. ''
अपोलो 11 effectively ended the Space रेस and fulfilled a नेशनल goal प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in a speech before the United States कॉंग्रेस, `` before this decade is आउट, of landing a man on the चंद्रमा and returning him safely to the Earth. ''
The FIFA संसार Cup, often बस the World कप, is an international association football प्रतियोगिता लडे by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions are Spain, who won the 2010 टूर्नामेंट.
The current format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
a qualification phase, जिससे currently takes place over the preceding three सालो, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 संसार Cup tournaments have been जीती by आठ different national teams.
Brazil have won five times, and they are the only team to have played in every टूर्नामेंट.
the other World कप winners are Italy, साथ four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay, साथ two titles each ; और England, France, and Spain, with one title प्रत्येक.
The World कप is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an अनुमानित 715.1 million people देखी the final match of the 2006 FIFA संसार Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by Raphael Lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction, in whole or in part, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group.
It is पारिभाषित in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and दंड of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following अधिनियमों committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in भाग, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as ऐसे : हत्या सदस्यों of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the groups conditions of life, calculated to लाओ about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing उपायों intended to prevent births within the समूह ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the समूह to another समूह. ''
Skulls of victims of the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG not only states that `` genocide is a crime under अंतरराष्ट्रीय law, contrary to the spirit and aims of the United Nations and condemned by the civilized world '', लकिन also कि `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity ''.
Determining कया historical events constitute a genocide and which are merely criminal or inhuman behavior is not a clear-cut matter.
In nearly every case where accusations of नरसंहार have circulated, partisans of विभिन्न पहलू have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event, often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts.
An accusation of genocide is certainly not taken lightly और will almost always be controversial.
The following list of genocides and alleged genocides चाहिए be understood in this context and can नहीं be regarded as the फाइनल word on these subjects.
A timing बेल्ट is a non-slipping mechanical drive belt and the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt, a flexible belt with दांत moulded onto इसके inner surface
समय belt ( camshaft ), a toothed बेल्ट प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव the camshaft ( s ) within an internal combustion engine
the culture of the United States is primarily a पश्चिमी culture, लकिन is also influenced by Native American, अफ़्रीकी, Asian, Polynesian, and Latin American संस्कृतियों.
American culture started its formation over 10,000 सालो ago with the माइग्रेशन of Paleo-Indians from एशिया into the region that is today the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त States.
It has इसके own unique सोशल and cultural characteristics such as dialect, music, कला, social आदतें, cuisine, and लोकगीत.
The संयुक्त States of America is an ethnically and racially विविध country as a result of large-scale आव्रजन from अनेक different देशों throughout its history.
Its chief early European influences came from अंग्रेज़ी, Scottish, Welsh और Irish settlers of colonial America during British rule.
British culture, due to colonial ties with Britain that स्प्रेड the English language, legal प्रणाली and other cultural inheritances, था a formative influence.
अन्य महत्वपूर्ण influences came from other parts of western Europe, especially Germany, France, और इटली.
असली तत्व also play a strong role, such as the invention of Jeffersonian democracy.
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of वर्जिनिया was perhaps the पहला influential domestic cultural critique by an अमरीकी और a reactionary piece to the prevailing यूरोपीय consensus that America 's domestic originality was degenerate.
प्रचलित विचार and ideals that evolved domestically, such as national holidays, uniquely अमरीकी sports, military tradition, and नवप्रवर्तनों in the arts and entertainment दे a दमदार sense of नेशनल अभिमान among the जनसांख्यिकी as a whole.
American culture includes both रूढ़िवादी and liberal तत्व, scientific and religious competitiveness, राजनैतिक structures, risk taking और free अभिव्यक्ति, भौतिकवादी and moral elements.
Despite निश्चित सतत ideological principles ( e.g. individualism, समतावाद, and faith in freedom and democracy ), American culture has a variety of expressions due to इसके भौगोलिक scale and demographic diversity.
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly सांकेतिक nature lead some researchers to categorize American culture as a mythic पहचान ; others see it as American exceptionalism.
It also includes elements that evolved from Indigenous Americans, और other जातीय cultures—most prominently the culture of African Americans, cultures from लैटिन America, और Asian American cultures.
अनेक American cultural elements, विशेषकर from popular culture, have spread आरपार the globe through modern mass media.
The United States has often महरूम thought of as a melting pot, लकिन beginning in the late 1990s and early 2000s, it trends towards सांस्कृतिक diversity, pluralism and the चित्र of a salad bowl instead.
Due to the extent of American culture, वहीँ are many एकीकृत but unique social subcultures within the संयुक्त राज्य.
The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, राजनैतिक orientation and a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background, occupation and ethnic group membership.
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the language of the Samoan Islands, comprising the independent country of Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa.
It is an आधिकारिक language—alongside English —in both jurisdictions.
Samoan, a Polynesian language, is the first language for most of the Samoa Islands ' जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 246,000.
With many Samoan people जीना in other countries, the total क्रमांक of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000.
The language is notable for the phonological differences between formal and informal speech as well as a ceremonial form used in samoan oratory.
a glucose tolerance परीक्षण is a medical test in which glucose is given और blood नमूने taken afterward to determine how जल्दी it is cleared इससे the रक्त.
The test is प्रायः used to test for diabetes, insulin resistance, and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly, or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the most commonly performed version of the परीक्षण, an oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ), a standard dose of glucose is ingested by mouth and blood स्तर are checked two hours later.
Many variations of the GTT have महरूम devised over the सालो for various purposes, with different standard doses of glucose, different रूट of प्रशासन, different intervals and durations of sampling, and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
`` What About Me '' is a song लिखा by Garry Frost और Frances Swan, first recorded by Australian rock बैंड Moving Pictures from their album दिनों of Innocence.
It थी the बैंड 's first number-one सिंगल in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the top ; there, it was the second-highest selling single of 1982.
The success of the song led them to America where it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 चार्ट.
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a long समय कि it प्रबंधित to make Billboards top 100 पॉप Singles of 1983, at # 88, a rare feat for a single with ऐसे a low peak position.
The song made an unusual comeback in 1989, peaking at # 46.
on the left a chicken अंडा, the egg most commonly eaten by humans, and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many अलग species, including पक्षियों, सरीसृपों, amphibians, and fish, और have been खाया by mankind for thousands of years.
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell, albumen ( egg white ), और vitellus ( egg yolk ), contained within various thin membranes.
Popular चुनाव for egg consumption are chicken, duck, quail, roe, and caviar, but the egg most प्रायः खपत by humans is the chicken egg, by a wide margin.
Egg yolks and whole eggs store significant amounts of protein and choline, and are widely used in cookery.
Due to their प्रोटीन content, the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) categorizes eggs as Meats within the Food Guide Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional value of eggs, there are some संभावित स्वास्थ्य मुद्दे arising from अंडा quality, भंडार, and individual allergies.
Chickens and अन्य egg-laying creatures हैं widely kept throughout the संसार, और mass production of chicken eggs is a global उद्योग.
in 2009, an estimated 62.1 million मीट्रिक tons of eggs यहूद produced worldwide इससे a total laying flock of approximately 6.4 अरब hens.
There are issues of regional variation in माँग and expectation, as well as वर्तमान debates concerning methods of mass production, साथ the European Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens.
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer league representing the खेल 's highest level in the United States and Canada.
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation ( U.S. Soccer ), the league is composed of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in कनाडा.
Seasons presently run from March to December, with each team playing 34 games in the regular ऋतु.
Ten teams compete in the postseason MLS Cup Playoffs culminating in the championship game, the MLS Cup.
Major League सॉकर was संस्थापित in 1993 as part of the संयुक्त राज्य ' bid to host the 1994 FIFA World Cup.
The first season took place in 1996 beginning with ten teams.
Instead of ऑपरेटिंग as an association of independently owned teams, MLS is a सिंगल entity where each team is owned and controlled by the league 's investors.
The league 's बंद सदस्यता makes it one of the world 's few soccer leagues not using promotion and relegation.
The वैधता of cannabis varies from country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many देशों have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of cannabis, particularly in उत्तर अमेरिका, South अमेरिका और यूरोपीय.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the नीदरलैंड्स, North कोरियाई and would be in the u.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not लिये संघीय law, which governs persons in all states.
The औषधीय use of cannabis is legal in a number of देशों, including Canada, the चेक गणतंत्र and Israel.
While संघीय law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the state level और some states have established औषधीय marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; दो states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis और replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are नहीं as vigorously prosecuted as others but, apart from the countries that प्रस्ताव access to चिकित्सा marijuana, most countries have विभिन्न penalties ranging from lenient to बहुत severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in लिहाज़ to the cultivation, use, possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational उपयोग.
A few jurisdictions have lessened दंड for possession of small quantities of कैनबिस, making it punishable by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for यंग or frequent users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the लक्ष्य and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There are भी परिवर्तन in a more restrictive direction as in Canada.
ड्रग परीक्षण to detect cannabis are increasingly आम in many countries और have resulted in jail sentences and लोगों losing उनके कार्य.
However, सरल कब्ज़ा can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in parts of East Asia and southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even निष्पादन.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the आयतनी fraction of blood pumped आउट of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the प्रणालीगत circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art कि allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a विश्वव्यापी utility enabling study of हृदय performance reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a mathematical product allowed by हृदय इमेजिंग.
As a mathematical term, Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as इकोकार्डियोग्राफी, Computed Tomography, चुम्बकीय Resonance इमेजिंग and muga स्कैनिंग have definitively allowed clinically प्रासंगिक mathematics regarding Ischemia, जन्मजात Heart Disease और Heart Failure.
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south राज्य highway in the U.S. state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, largely in the Mojave मरुस्थल.
The southern portion of the highway is signed as the Antelope Valley Freeway.
The route connects अंतरराज्यीय 5, or Golden State Freeway, near Santa Clarita and with u.S. Route 395 निकट inyokern.
Legislatively, the रूट extends south of i-5 to State Route 1 in the Pacific Palisades area of Los Angeles, however the portion south of the junction साथ I-5 has not been constructed.
The दक्षिणी part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the समुदायों of Santa clarita, Palmdale और Lancaster with the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area.
the उत्तरी portion, from Vincent ( दक्षिण of Palmdale ) to रूट 395, is legislatively नामित the Aerospace Highway, as the राजमार्ग serves Edwards Air Force Base, once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's स्पेस Shuttle.
This section is rural, following the line between the hot Mojave desert and the forming Sierra Nevada पहाड़ range.
Most of रूट 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad, used लिये the Antelope घाटी लकीर of the Metrolink commuter rail system as well as a connection between Los Angeles and the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass.
Linked साथ us 395, this सड़क connects Los एंजिल्स with such places as मैमथ Mountain, Mono Lake, Yosemite National Park and Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 थी part of U.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in 1964, जब U.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown, Massachusetts.
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from चांदी महारानी सड़क उत्तर of rosamond to Mojave is known as Sierra राजमार्ग, as is the old routing between अंतरराज्यीय 5 and चांदी Queen Road where SR 14 has been स्थानांतरित to a newer freeway alignment.
Portions of Route 14 remain हस्ताक्षरित with names संबद्ध साथ US 6, including Midland Trail, Theodore Roosevelt Highway and Grand Army of the Republic Highway.
This route is भाग of the California Freeway and Expressway प्रणाली.
Blindness is the कंडीशन of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors.
Various scales have been developed to describe the extent of दृष्टि loss and define blindness.
Total blindness is the complete lack of form और visual light perception and is clinically recorded as NLP, an abbreviation for `` no light perception. ''
Blindness is अक्सर used to describe कठोर visual पुतलियों with vision.
Those described as having तभी लाइट perception have no more sight than the क्षमता to बताना लाइट from dark and the सामान्य direction of a लाइट source.
To determine which people may need खास assistance क्युकी of their visual disabilities, various governmental jurisdictions have formulated अधिक complex definitions referred to as विधिक blindness.
In North America and most of Europe, legal blindness is पारिभाषित as visual तीक्ष्णता ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better नजर साथ best correction possible.
This अर्थात् कि a legally blind individual would have to stand from an object to see it—with corrective lenses —with the same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from.
In many areas, people with average acuity who nonetheless have a visual field of कम than 20 degrees ( the norm being 180 degrees ) are also classified as being legally blind.
Approximately ten प्रतिशत of those deemed legally blind, by any measure, have no दृष्टि.
the rest have some vision, from लाइट perception alone to relatively good acuity.
Low vision is sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International सांख्यिकीय Classification of Diseases, Injuries and Causes of Death, low दृष्टि is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), but equal to or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or corresponding visual फ़ील्ड loss to less than 20 degrees, in the बेहतर eye साथ best संभावित correction.
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल field loss to less than 10 degrees, in the better eye with बेहतरीन possible correction.
Blind लोगों with undamaged eyes may स्टिल register light non-visually for the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark साईकिल.
Light signals लिये this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and are not affected by ऑप्टिक nerve damage beyond where the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl Simmons ( born December 18, 1970 ), better known by his stage names DMX and Dark Man X, is an American rapper and actor.
In 1999, DMX released his best-selling album... And Then There Was X, which featured the hit single `` Party up ( Up in Here ) ``.
He रै acted in films such as Belly, Romeo Must Die, Exit wounds, Cradle 2 The Grave, और Last Hour.
In 2006, he starred in the reality टेलीविज़न series, जिससे was primarily aired on the BET cable television संजाल.
In 2003, DMX प्रकाशित a book of उसके memoirs entitled, e.a.r.l. : The आत्मकथा of DMX.
dmx released a mixtape The Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards his album undisputed ( 2012 ).
dmx has sold over 30 million रिकॉर्ड worldwide, बनाना him one of the best-selling hip-hop artists of all time.
Professional प्रमाणन, व्यापार certification, or professional designation, प्रायः called simply प्रमाणन or qualification, is a नामांकन earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task.
Not all certifications that use post-nominal letters are an acknowledgement of educational achievement, or an agency नियुक्त to safeguard the public interest.
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character, best remembered for उसके starring roles in the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies series of theatrical short films उत्पादित by warner Bros. during the सुनहरी आयु of American animation.
His popularity during this era led to his becoming a corporate mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or rabbit who is famous लिये his flippant, personality, a pronounced New York accent, उसके portrayal as a छलिया, and his catch phrase `` Eh...
What 's up, दस्तावेज़ ? ''
( usually said while chewing a carrot ).
बग has appeared in more films than any other कार्टून अक्षर and is the ninth most portrayed film personality in the world.
according to उसके 1990 `` biography '' Bugs Bunny : 50 Years and Only एक Grey Hare, Bugs was born on July 27, 1940 in ब्रुकलीन, नई York in a warren under ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
in वास्तविकता, he थी brought to life by the animators और staff of Leon schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. cartoons ) : सहित Tex Avery, जो directed Bugs ' early definitive short A जंगली Hare ( 1940 ) ; रॉबर्ट McKimson, who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc, who originated the voice of Bugs.
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) are linings of mostly endodermal origin, covered in epithelium, which are involved in absorption and secretion.
They line कैविटी that are exposed to the external environment और internal organs.
They are at several places contiguous साथ skin : at the नथुनों, the lips of the मुँह, the eyelids, the ears, the genital area, and the anus.
the sticky, thick fluid secreted by the श्लेष्मक membranes और ग्रंथियों is termed mucus.
The term mucous membrane refers to where वे are मिला in the देह and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus.
the glans clitoridis, glans penis ( सिर of the शिश्न ), along with the inside of the अग्रत्वचा and the clitoral हुड, are mucous membranes.
The urethra is also a श्लेष्मक membrane.
the secreted mucus traps the pathogens in the body, preventing any further activities of diseases.
A master sergeant is the military rank for a senior non-commissioned अधिकारी in some armed शक्तियां.
Cake is a रूप of bread or bread-like खाना.
in इसके आधुनिक forms, it is typically a sweet baked मिठाई.
In its oldest forms, cakes were सामान्यतः fried breads or cheesecakes, and normally had a disk shape.
Determining whether a given खाना चाहिए be classified as ब्रैड, cake, or pastry can be मुश्किल.
Modern cake, especially layer cakes, सामान्यतः contain a संयोजन of flour, शुगर, eggs, and butter or आयल, साथ some varieties भी requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, dried or candied fruit, or extracts are often added, और numerous substitutions for the primary संघटक are possible.
Cakes are often filled with फल preserves or dessert sauces ( like pastry cream ), iced with buttercream or other icings, and decorated साथ marzipan, piped borders or candied fruit.
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions, particularly weddings, वर्षगांठ, and birthdays.
There are countless cake recipes ; some are bread-like, some rich and elaborate, और many are सदियां बूढ़ा.
Cake बनाना is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ), baking equipment and directions have been सरलीकृत so that even the most amateur cook may bake a केक.
Tamara Faye LaValley bakker Messner ( March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) was an American Christian singer, evangelist, उद्योगों, author, talk दिखाएँ मेजबान, and television personality.
She थी married from 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, और later convicted felon, Jim Bakker.
She co-hosted with him on The PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ).
She was a participant in the 2004 season of the reality दिखाएँ The Surreal Life.
Cambria is a village in कोलंबिया County, विस्कॉन्सिन, United States.
The population was 767 at the 2010 census.
It is भाग of the Madison Metropolitan Statistical क्षेत्रफल.
Public नीति is the principled guide to कार्रवाई taken by the administrative executive branches of the राज्य with regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent साथ law and institutional customs.
In general, the न्यास is the pertinent national और substantial constitutional law and implementing legislation ऐसे as the US Federal कोड.
Further substrates include both judicial interpretations and regulations which are generally authorized by विधान.
अन्य scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action, regulatory measures, कानून, and funding priorities concerning a दिए topic promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives. ''
Public नीति is commonly embodied `` in constitutions, विधान अधिनियमों, and judicial निर्णय. ''
In the संयुक्त राज्य, इस concept refers नहीं only to the result of नीतियों, लकिन more broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions.
As an academic discipline, public नीति is पढ़ाई by professors और students at public policy schools of major universities throughout the country.
the u.S. professional association of public policy practitioners, researchers, scholars, और students is the संघ for Public Policy Analysis and Management.
Digestion is the mechanical and chemical breakdown of food into smaller components that are more easily absorbed into a रक्त stream, for instance.
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a breakdown of विशाल खाना अणुओं to smaller ones.
When food enters the mouth, digestion of the food starts by the action of mastication, a form of mechanical digestion, और the wetting contact of लार.
Saliva, a liquid स्रावित by the salivary ग्रंथियों, contains salivary amylase, an एंजाइम which starts the पाचन of मंड in the food.
After undergoing mastication and मंड digestion, the food will be in the form of a छोटी, round slurry द्रव्यमान called a bolus.
It will then travel down the esophagus and into the stomach by the action of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the stomach starts protein digestion.
Gastric रस मुख्यतः contains हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid and pepsin.
As these दो chemicals may damage the पेट wall, mucus is secreted by the stomach, providing a slimy परत that acts as a shield against the damaging प्रभाव of the chemicals.
At the same time प्रोटीन digestion is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, जिससे हैं लहरें of muscular contractions कि मूव along the stomach wall.
इस allows the द्रव्यमान of food to further mix with the digestive एंजाइमों.
After some समय ( typically an hour or two in humans, 4–6 hours in dogs, somewhat shorter अवधि in हाउस cats ), the resulting thick द्रव is called chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum जहाँ it mixes with digestive एंजाइमों from the pancreas, and then passes through the small intestine, in which पाचन continues.
When the chyme is fully digested, it is absorbed into the blood.
95 % of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine.
Water and खनिज are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon ( large intestine ) where the ph is थोड़ा acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some vitamins, such as biotin और vitamin K ( k2mk7 ) produced by bacteria in the colon are भी absorbed into the blood in the colon.
Waste material is eliminated from the rectum during defecation.
Henry VIII ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) थी king of England from 21 अप्रैल 1509 until his death.
He थी lord, and बाद किंग, of Ireland, as well as continuing the nominal claim by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the second monarch of the Tudor dynasty, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides उसके six marriages, हेनरी VIII is known for his role in the separation of the Church of England इससे the Roman Catholic Church.
हेनरी 's struggles with Rome led to the विरह of the Church of England from papal authority, the विच्छेद of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a आस्तिक in कोर Catholic theological teachings, even after उसके excommunication from the Roman कैथोलिक Church.
Henry oversaw the legal संघ of England और Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new किंग allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximillian I, and invaded France in 1513 with a large, well-equipped army, but achieved little at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his भाग, used the English invasion to his own ends, and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French.
इस foray होता prove the start of an obsession for Henry, who invaded again in 1544.
This समय, Henry 's forces captured the important नगर of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles V, समर्थित Henry only as long as he needed to और England, strained by the enormous cost of the युद्ध, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, educated और accomplished किंग, and he has been described as `` एक of the सबसे charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he also engaged himself as an author and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male वारिस – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the गुलाब – led to the two बाते for which हेनरी is most remembered : his six विवाह and the अंग्रेज़ी Reformation.
Henry became रुग्ण obese and his health suffered, contributing to his मौत in 1547.
he is frequently characterised in उसके later life as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are an Afro-Cuban percussion यंत्र.
The ड्रम are of different size : the larger drum is called in स्पेनी the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the मर्दाना ( male ).
वे are membranophones, or instruments that create sound by a स्पंदन of a stretched झिल्ली.
Different religious groups include different books in their Biblical canons, in varying orders, and sometimes divide or combine books, or चरितार्थ additional सामग्री into canonical books.
Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six किताबे of the Protestant canon to the eighty-one किताबे of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon.
The Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four books divided into तीन parts ; the पाँच books of the तोरा ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the Nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ), and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
The first part of Christian Bibles is the बूढ़ा Testament, which contains, at minimum, the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine किताबे and ordered differently from the Hebrew बाइबल.
The Catholic गिरिजाघर and Eastern Christian churches also hold certain deuterocanonical books और passages to be part of the Old Testament canon.
The second भाग is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven books ; the four Canonical gospels, अधिनियमों of the Apostles, twenty-one Epistles or letters and the Book of Revelation.
The Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern कैथोलिक churches may have नाबालिग differences in उनके lists of accepted books.
The list given यहाँ लिये ये churches is the most समावेशी : if at least one Eastern गिरिजाघर स्वीकृत the book it is included here.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen बराबर horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) प्रत्यावर्ती with श्वेत, with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in नौ offset horizontal rows of six stars ( शीर्ष and bottom ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ rows of five सितारों.
the 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America और the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that घोषित independence इससे the Kingdom of Great Britain और became the पहला states in the Union.
Nicknames for the ध्वज include the `` Stars and Stripes '', `` Old Glory ``, and `` the Star-Spangled Banner. ''
Dred स्कॉट v. sandford,, also known as the Dred Scott Decision, was a लैंडमार्क decision by the u.S. Supreme Court.
It made दो main rulings.
The पहला सत्ताधारी was कि African-Americans were not citizens, and therefore had no standing to sue in federal court.
The second ruling was that the संघीय government had no शक्ति to regulate slavery in any territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the United राज्य.
Given the first ruling, most scholars और many contemporary political figures ( including the नेतृत्व of the then-new Republican Party ) considered that the दूसरी ruling was नहीं binding यही, लकिन mere dictum.
the rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional ruling implied that people of African descent ( दोनो slave and free ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens.
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, both rulings are superseded and no longer valid यही.
Nonetheless, the case retains ऐतिहासिक significance as it is widely regarded as the worst decision ever made by the Supreme Court.
The opinion of the court, written by मुख्य Justice Roger B. Taney, stirred debate.
The decision was 7–2, and every Justice besides Taney wrote a separate concurrence or dissent.
लिये the first time since marbury v. मैडिसन, the Court held an Act of Congress to be unconstitutional.
Dred Scott, an African-American स्लेव, had asked a United States Circuit Court to award him his freedom because he और his master had resided in a राज्य ( Illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin territory ) where slavery had महरूम banned.
Chief Justice Roger Taney, writing लिये the court, held that Scott, as a person of African ancestry, was नहीं a citizen of the United States and therefore था no right to मुकदमा in federal court.
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous राज्य at the time, particularly Free states, where फ़्री blacks did in fact enjoy the rights of citizens, such as the right to vote and hold public office.
In कया is sometimes माना mere obiter dictum, the Court went on to hold कि Congress had no authority to prohibit गुलामी in federal territories because slaves are personal प्रॉपर्टी और the Fifth Amendment to the संविधान protects property owners against deprivation of उनके property बगैर due प्रक्रम of law.
In reaching this decision, Taney had hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the United राज्य, but it had the opposite प्रभाव.
The decision was fiercely debated आरपार the country, as perhaps best सरंचनाओं by the lincoln–douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham Lincoln, the second-ever Republican nominee for President, was able to win the presidential election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party यों.
The decision played an important role in the timing of state secession और the Civil War, although it is extreme to say the decision `` caused '' the war.
The निर्णय is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political लैंडस्केप : it is credited साथ launching Abraham lincoln’s national political करियर and ultimately allowing for his election.
Although the परम् Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott मामला, the Court stated in the Slaughter-House मामले that at least one part of it had already been overruled by the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868, जिससे begins by stating, `` All persons born or naturalized in the United राज्य, and subject to the क्षेत्राधिकार thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. ''
To which the Court noted:
The पहला observation we have to make on this clause is, that it puts at rest दोनो the questions जिससे we stated to have been the subject of मतभेद of opinion.
It declares that persons may be citizens of the संयुक्त States without लिहाज़ to their citizenship of a particular State, and it overturns the Dred Scott decision by making all व्यक्तियों born within the United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United राज्य.
There हैं dozens of neighborhoods in कोलंबस, Ohio.
Some are hard to define, as they encompass large क्षेत्रों developed at different times—often साथ sub-neighborhoods भीतर them.
Borders can also change based on popular understanding of the area, as खूब as the whims of the residents.
This article uses data इससे the Datasourcecolumbus Web site, Spotcrime.com, hellocolumbus.com, as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas.
excerpts and border information are drawn directly इससे the main articles.
A biologist is a scientist जो studies living organisms and their relationship to उनके environment.
Biologists involved in मौलिक शोध attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms work.
Biologists शामिल in लागू research attempt to develop or improve medical, industrial or agricultural processes.
Martinus विलेम Beijerinck, a botanist and microbiologist
Base jumping from a cliff in a wingsuit.
आधार jumping, also sometimes written as B.A.S.E. कूद, is an activity where participants jump from fixed objects और use a पैराशूट to ब्रेक their fall.
`` आधार '' is an acronym that stands लिये four categories of fixed objects from जिससे एक can जम्प : buildings, एन्टेना, spans ( bridges ), and earth ( cliffs ).
The British Shorthair is a domesticated बिल्ली whose features make it a popular breed in cat shows.
It रै been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's Governing Council of the Cat Fancy ( GCCF ) since 2001, जब it overtook the Persian नस्ल.
the USA Basketball Men 's Senior नेशनल Team, commonly known as the United States men 's national basketball team, represents the United States of America in international men 's basketball.
The यूएसए is the सबसे successful team in international प्रतियोगिता, winning medals in all seventeen Olympic tournaments it has entered, coming away with fourteen golds.
Two of its gold medal-winning squads यहूद inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball हॉल of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 team, जिससे featured छह हॉल of Famers ( 4 players, 2 coaches ), and the 1992 `` Dream Team '', featuring 14 Hall of famers ( 11 खिलाड़ी, 3 coaches ).
the United States is फिलहाल ranked first in the FIBA World Rankings.
traditionally composed of amateur players, a 1989 नियम change by fiba allowed यूएसए Basketball to field teams with professional players.
The first ऐसे team, ज्ञात as the `` Dream Team '', won the gold medal at the 1992 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in Barcelona, स्पेन, playing in the final against Croatia.
With the परिचय of पेशेवर, the team was able to spark a second run of dominance after capturing तभी a bronze medal in 1988.
a टोली of professional players competed at the 1994 FIBA World Championship, finishing first.
In 1996, 2000, 2008, and 2012 the USA again captured gold medals.
Facing increased प्रतियोगिता, the USA failed to जीत a medal at the 2002 FIBA World चैंपियनशिप, finishing sixth.
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost three games on its way to a bronze medal, a record कि represented more losses in a single year than the country 's Olympic टीमों था suffered in all previous Olympiads combined.
Determined to put an समाप्त to these failures, USA Basketball initiated a long-term project aimed at creating better, more cohesive teams.
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006 fiba संसार Championship in Japan before losing against Greece in the semi-finals, समाप्ति the प्रतियोगिता with the bronze medal.
The यूएसए won सुनहरा two सालो later, though, at the 2008 Summer Olympics with a dominant प्रदर्शन.
This कामयाबी was followed up at the 2010 FIBA संसार चैंपियनशिप, where despite fielding a roster featuring no players from the 2008 Olympic team, the USA did not lose a single खेल en route to defeating host Turkey लिये the gold medal.
the USA continued this streak of dominance by going undefeated and capturing सुनहरा एकबार more at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
The Steelers Super Bowl XL रिंग
Joe Theismann 's Super Bowl Ring ( right )
The Super Bowl ring is an पुरस्कार in the National Football League दिए to the winners of the league 's सालाना World Championship game, the Super Bowl.
Since only one विंस Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself, the Super Bowl रिंग offers a collectible memento for the actual खिलाड़ी and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory.
Image showing the six most common speleothems with labels.
to view labels.
The Witch 's उंगली in the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, इससे σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` dropping, trickling '' ) is a type of speleothem that rises इससे the floor of a limestone cave due to the dripping of mineralized solutions और the deposition of calcium कार्बोनेट.
This stalagmite formation occurs only under certain pH conditions within the underground cavern.
The corresponding formation on the ceiling of a गुफा is known as a stalactite.
If these formations grow together, the result is known as a column.
The हॉल of Giants in the Carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites should सामान्यतः not be छुआ, since the rock buildup is formed by खनिज precipitating out of the water समाधान onto the old सतह ; skin oils can alter the surface where the mineral water will cling, thus affecting the विकास of the formation.
Oils and dirt from इंसान contact can भी दाग the formation and change its color permanently.
Similar structures can also form in lava tubes, associated with कुछ types of lavacicles, although the mechanism of गठन is very different.
Stalactites and stalagmites can also रूप on concrete ceilings and floors, हालांकि they रूप much more rapidly there than in the प्राकृतिक cave environment.
The largest stalagmite in the world is high और is located in the cave of Cueva Martin Infierno, Cuba.
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran, approximately from the ancient city of bishapur, in the shapur cave on the fourth of five terraces stands the 3rd century CE statue of Shapur i, second ruler of the Sassanid Empire.
The statue, carved from one stalagmite, is nearly high.
How i Met Your Mother is an American sitcom that premiered on CBS on September 19, 2005.
The दिखाएँ was created by Craig Thomas and Carter Bays.
How i Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030, when Ted mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter ( Lyndsy Fonseca ) and son ( दाउद Henrie ) to tell them the story of how he met their माँ.
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a सिंगल, 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends from Wesleyan विश्वविद्यालयों, मार्शल Eriksen ( जेसन Segel ), a law student, और लिली Aldrin ( Alyson हनिंगन ), a kindergarten teacher, who have been डेटिंग for almost nine years when Marshall proposes.
Their engagement कल्याणकारी Ted to think about finding his own soul mate, much to the disgust of his friend Barney Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ), a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job.
And thus, Ted begins उसके search for his पूर्ण mate, and meets Robin scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders ), whom he also befriends.
The 100th episode of कैसा I Met Your Mother aired on January 11, 2010.
On December 21, 2012, the series was renewed for a नवीं season.
On January 30, 2013, it was announced that Season 9 will be its final ऋतु.
gringo (,, ) is a slang स्पेनी and Portuguese word used in Ibero-America, to denote foreigners, often from the United States.
The term can be applied to someone who is actually a foreigner, or it can denote a strong संघ or assimilation into विदेशी ( particularly us ) society and संस्कृति.
In स्पेनी it does नहीं have a negative connotation.
Roger Axtell, a सफर etiquette expert, notes कि `` [ t ] he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word.
It is कठबोली but is derogatory only in its use and कॉन्टेक्स्ट. ''
The word was प्रयुक्त in स्पेन long before it crossed the Atlantic to denote विदेशी, non-native speakers of Spanish.
The great white शार्क, Carcharodon carcharias, also known as the great white, श्वेत सूचक, white shark, or white मौत, is a species of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans.
the great white shark is मुख्यतः known for its size, with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in length, and in weight.
This shark reaches its maturity around 15 years of age and can have a जीवन span of over 30 सालो.
The great white शार्क is arguably the world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish, and is one of the primary परभक्षी of marine mammals.
It is also known to prey upon a किस्में of other marine animals, including fish और seabirds.
It is the तभी known surviving species of its genus Carcharodon, and is ranked first in having the सबसे attacks on humans.
The IUCN list the great white shark as a vulnerable प्रजाति, जबकि it is included in Appendix II of CITES.
the bestselling अनोखा Jaws by Peter Benchley and the subsequent blockbuster film by Steven स्पिलबर्ग depicted the ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क as a `` ferocious man भक्षक ``.
In वास्तविकता, humans are not the preferred prey of the great white shark.
The United States Armed Forces are the सैन्य शक्तियां of the संयुक्त States of America.
They consist of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard.
The u.S. रै a strong tradition of civilian कंट्रोल of the military.
The अध्यक्ष is the military 's overall head, और helps form military policy with the U.S. Department of Defense ( DoD ), a संघीय कार्यपालिका विभाग, एक्टिंग as the principal organ by which military policy is carried आउट.
The DoD is headed by the Secretary of Defense, who is a civilian and Cabinet member.
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's chain of command, just नीचे the President, और serves as the principal assistant to the President in all dod-related matters.
To निर्देशांक military action साथ diplomacy, the President रै an advisory National Security Council headed by a नेशनल Security Advisor.
दोनो the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member संयुक्त Chiefs of Staff, which includes the head of प्रत्येक of the Defense Department 's service branches as खूब as the chief of the National Guard Bureau.
Leadership is provided by the Chairman of the Joint chiefs of Staff and the Vice अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त Chiefs of Staff.
The Commandant of the Coast Guard is not a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
All of the branches work together during operations and joint missions, under the Unified Combatant Commands, under the authority of the Secretary of Defense with the exception of the Coast Guard.
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of the Department of मातृभूमि Security and receives its operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security.
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the विभाग of the Navy by the President or Congress दौरान a time of war.
All five हथियारबंद services हैं among the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the others हैं the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned corps और the National Oceanic और Atmospheric प्रशासन Commissioned Corps.
इससे the time of its inception, the military निभाई a decisive role in the history of the United राज्य.
A sense of national unity और पहचान was forged as a result of victory in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War.
Even so, the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military force and नहीं until the outbreak of World युद्ध II did a large खड़ा army become officially established.
The National सुरक्षा Act of 1947, अपनाया following संसार युद्ध II और during the Cold युद्ध 's onset, created the modern U.S. military फ्रेमवर्क ; the अधिनियम मिलाया previously Cabinet-level Department of War and the Department of the Navy into the नेशनल Military स्थापना ( renamed the Department of रक्षा in 1949 ), headed by the सचिव of Defense ; and created the Department of the एयर फ़ोर्स and National Security Council.
the U.S. military is one of the largest militaries in terms of number of personnel.
It draws इसके manpower from a large pool of paid स्वयंसेवक ; although conscription रै महरूम used in the past in विभिन्न times of दोनो युद्ध and peace, it has not महरूम used since 1972.
As of 2013, the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund इसके सैन्य forces, and appropriates approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund विदेशी Contingency Operations.
Put together, the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of the संसार 's सैन्य expenditures.
The u.S. हथियारबंद Forces as a whole possess विशाल quantities of advanced and powerful equipment, साथ with widespread placement of forces around the संसार, giving them significant सामर्थ्य in both defense और शक्ति projection.
Freedom of speech is the राजनैतिक सही to communicate एक 's opinions and ideas using one 's देह and property to anyone who is willing to receive उन्हें.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving और imparting information or विचार, regardless of the मीडियम used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is नहीं निरपेक्ष in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, बदनामी, obscenity, sedition ( including, लिये example inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of सूचना that is classified or otherwise.
The सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति is recognized as a इंसान right अंतर्गत Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international इंसान rights law in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Covenant on Civil and Political अधिकारों ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to तलाश, receive और impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in छपाई, in the form of art, or through any अन्य media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties और responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when जरुरी `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public अनुक्रम ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is मिला to cause religious offense, such as the अंग्रेजों Racial और Religious Hatred Act 2006.
The Big Bang Theory logo.
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television series निर्मित and कार्यपालिका produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady.
Like the name of the श्रेणी itself, with the exception of the first episode— '' पायलट '' —episode titles of The Big Bang सिद्धान्त सदा प्रारंभ with `` The '' and resemble the name of a scientific principle, theory or experiment, whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk.
, 133 episodes have aired.
The Big Bang Theory has been renewed लिये a seventh season.
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced, ; अक्तूबर 14, 1890 – कूच 28, 1969 ) was the 34th President of the United States इससे 1953 जबतक 1961.
he had previously been a five-star general in the United States Army during संसार War II और परोसा as Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe ; he had responsibility लिये planning and supervising the आक्रमण of North Africa in Operation Torch in 1942–43 and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 इससे the Western Front.
In 1951, he became the पहला supreme commander of NATO.
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry और थी reared in a large family in कान्सास by अभिभावक with a robust work ethic and धार्मिक पृष्ठभूमि.
As one of six sons, he was conditioned by a competitive माहौल which instilled self-reliance.
He attended and graduated from West Point and later married and had two sons.
After World युद्ध II, आइज़नहावर served as Army Chief of Staff under President Harry S. Truman, then assumed the पोस्ट of President at Columbia University.
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a रिपब्लिकन to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft और to crusade against `` Communism, Korea and corruption ''.
He जीती by a landslide, defeating Democrat Adlai Stevenson and ending two decades of the New सौदे Coalition.
In the पहला year of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, Eisenhower deposed the leader of इरान in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état और used nuclear threats to conclude the कोरियाई War साथ China.
His New Look नीति of nuclear deterrence दिया priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the funding for conventional सैन्य forces ; the लक्ष्य was to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits.
In 1954, Eisenhower first articulated the domino theory in his वर्णन of the threat presented by the स्प्रेड of communism.
the Congress सहमत to उसके request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution, which सक्रिय him to prevent Chinese communist आक्रामकता against चाइनीज nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending ताईवान.
When the Soviets launched Sputnik in 1957, he had to play catch-up in the space race.
Eisenhower forced Israel, the UK, and France to end their invasion of मिश्र दौरान the स्वेज Crisis of 1956.
In 1958, he sent 15,000 US सैनिकों to लेबनान to prevent the pro-Western सरकारी इससे falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution.
निकट the end of his term, उसके प्रयत्न to set up a समिट बैठक साथ the Soviets collapsed because of the u-2 incident.
on the domestic सामने, he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed to the end of mccarthyism by openly invoking the आधुनिक expanded संस्करण of executive privilege.
He otherwise left most political activity to his Vice President, रिचर्ड Nixon.
He थी a moderate conservative who continued नई Deal agencies and expanded Social Security.
Among his enduring innovations, he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the रक्षा Advanced Research Projects Agency ( darpa ), जिससे led to the internet, among अनेक invaluable outputs ; the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ), driving शांतिपूर्ण discovery in space ; the establishment of दमदार science education via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear शक्ति via amendments to the Atomic Energy अधिनियम.
In social नीति, he sent federal troops to Little Rock, अरकंसास, for the first time since पुनर्निर्माण to enforce federal court orders to desegregate पब्लिक स्कूलों.
He भी हस्ताक्षरित civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 to protect the right to vote.
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two years and made five appointments to the Supreme Court.
He was the first term-limited president in accordance with the 22nd Amendment.
Eisenhower 's two terms were शांतिपूर्ण ones लिये the most भाग और saw considerable economic prosperity except for a sharp recession in 1958–59.
आइज़नहावर is प्रायः ranked highly among the U.S. Presidents.
Air Force एक is the official air traffic control call चिह्न of a संयुक्त States Air फ़ोर्स वायुयान carrying the President of the United States.
In common parlance the पद refers to those एयर Force aircraft specifically designed, built, and used for the purpose of transporting the president.
The Presidential aircraft is a prominent symbol of the American प्रेसिडेंसी and its power.
The idea of designating specific military वायुयान to transport the President arose in 1943, जब officials of the United States Army Air Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air फ़ोर्स – became concerned with relying on वाणिज्यिक airlines to transport the President.
A C-87 Liberator Express थी reconfigured for use as a presidential transport ; however, it थी rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record.
A c-54 Skymaster was then परिवर्तित for अध्यक्षीय use ; this aircraft, dubbed the Sacred गाय, transported अध्यक्ष Franklin D. Roosevelt to the yalta सम्मेलन in February 1945, and थी subsequently used लिये another two years by President Harry S. Truman.
the `` Air Force One '' call sign was created after a 1953 घटना during which a flight carrying अध्यक्ष Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace as a वाणिज्यिक airline flight using the same call sign.
Several वायुयान have been used as Air फ़ोर्स One since the सृष्टि of the presidential fleet, including two Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s and 1970s, respectively ; since 1990, the presidential fleet has consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically configured, highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft.
The Air Force is looking into replacing the two vc-25 aircraft साथ three replacement aircraft beginning in 2017.
A विवाह anniversary is the anniversary of the date a wedding took place.
Traditional names exist लिये most of them : for instance, 50 years of marriage is called a `` सुनहरी wedding anniversary '' or simply a `` golden anniversary ''.
a स्कैनर with duplexing Automatic Document Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one printers, fax machines, photocopiers और scanners, an automatic दस्तावेज़ feeder or adf is a feature which takes अनेक pages और feeds the paper एक पेज at a समय into a scanner or copier, allowing the user to scan, and thereby नक़ल, print, or fax, multiple-page documents without having to हस्तचालित replace प्रत्येक page.
Most copiers allow स्कैनिंग on the फ्लैटबेड or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a document feeder.
the vast majority of फैक्स machines have an ADF, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines, कुछ fax machine owners use the fax machine as a scanner, faxing multi-page दस्तावेज़ to themselves.
Document feeders are वर्णित by speed, in पृष्ठों per minute or ppm, and capacity, usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200.
वहीँ are two kinds of document feeders सक्षम of two-sided ( duplex ) स्कैनिंग : a reversing automatic document feeder or RADF scans one side of a page, then flips it and scans the other पक्ष.
a duplexing automatic document feeder or dadf scans both sides in one pass.
The advantage of the DADF is faster speed for two-sided originals.
radfs and dadfs are rated in images per minute ( IPM ), the number of sides they can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational and educational complex located in डलास, Texas ( USA ).
The complex is registered as a Dallas Landmark, National Historic Landmark and is home to nine museums, six performance सुविधाएं, a lagoon, and the largest Ferris व्हील in North America.
Many of the buildings on the complex यहूद constructed for the Texas Centennial Exposition in 1936 जिससे drew over six लाख visitors.
Most of the buildings built for the exposition still survive and it is recognized as a significant example of Art Deco वास्तुकला.
Fair Park has been designated a Great Place in America by the American Planning Association.
the अमरीकी Planning संघ ( APA ) “is an independent, not-for-profit educational organization that provides नेतृत्व in the विकास of vital communities.”
The Great Places in American program helps to celebrate areas with “exemplary character, विशेषता, और planning.”
होने designated as a Great Place in America, Fair Park थी one of तभी ten cities chosen in 2011.
San जोस ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest नगर in California, the tenth-largest in the U.S., and the county seat of Santa Clara County जिससे is located at the southern end of सैन Francisco Bay.
San जोस is the largest city within Silicon Valley, जिससे is a major component of the वृहद San Francisco खाड़ी Area, a प्रदेश of 8.4 million people and the fifth largest महानगर area ( CSA ) in the United States.
It is the largest city in उत्तरी California.
San Jose was founded on November 29, 1777, as El Pueblo de San José de guadalupe, the first civilian town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California, which later became Alta California.
The city served as a farming community to support Spanish military installations at San फ्रांसिस्को and Monterey.
When California gained statehood in 1850, San Jose served as its first capital.
After अधिक than 150 years as a छोटी farming नगर, San Jose and the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay.
San Jose experienced increased demand for housing from soldiers and veterans returning from World War ii.
San Jose then जारी इसके aggressive expansion दौरान the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more जमीन area.
The rapid growth of the high-technology and electronics industries further accelerated the transition from an agricultural center, to an urbanized metropolitan area.
By the 1990s, San Jose 's स्थान within the booming local technology industry earned the नगर its nickname, पूंजी of सिलिकॉन Valley.
San Jose now maintains वैश्विक city औकात और is the largest city in the San Francisco Bay Area in terms of population, land क्षेत्रफल, and औद्योगिक विकास.
the U.S. Census Bureau reported the population of the city to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census.
As of April 2013, the अनुमानित population of San जोस was 984,000.
San Jose, along साथ the Santa Clara Valley, experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl, with characteristics of intense urbanization समान to the Los एंजिल्स area of Southern California.
The city has taken definite steps to avoid becoming `` l.A. North ''.
However, the sprawl in San जोस is worse than in Los Angeles by measures such as population density and public transit safety, investment, and ridership.
Europe depicted by antwerp cartographer Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of यूरोपीय covers the people inhabiting the European महाद्वीप since it was पहला populated in prehistoric times to उपस्थित, with the first Homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC.
The earliest settlers to Prehistoric Europe came during the paleolithic era.
The आगमन of agriculture around 7000 BC ushered in the neolithic age.
पाषाणकालीन Europe lasted for 4000 years, overlapping with metal-using cultures that gradually spread throughout the महाद्वीप.
Technological advances दौरान the prehistoric age tended to arrive from the Middle East, spreading gradually to the उत्तरपश्चिम.
Some of the best-known civilizations of prehistoric Europe were Minoan और माइसीनियाई, which flourished during the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short काल of time around 1200 BC.
The period known as शास्त्रीय antiquity began with the वृद्धि of the city-states of प्राचीन Greece.
Greek influence reached its zenith under the expansive empire of Alexander the Great, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern and western Europe were वर्चस्व by the la Tène संस्कृति, a precursor to the Celts.
रोम, a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 bc, would grow to become the रोमन Republic in 509 BC and होता सफल Greek culture as the प्रबल Mediterranean civilization.
The कार्यक्रम of the rule of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire.
the empire was later divided by the emperor diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires.
During the later years of the Roman साम्राज्य, the germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in strength and repeated हमले led to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire in ad 476, a date जिससे traditionally marks the end of the classical काल and the start of the Middle Ages.
During the Middle Ages, the Eastern Roman साम्राज्य survived, हालांकि modern historians refer to इस state as the Byzantine Empire.
In Western Europe, germanic peoples moved into स्थितियाँ of power in the remnants of the former पश्चिमी Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own.
Of सब of the Germanic peoples, the franks would rise to a position of आधिपत्य over पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, the frankish Empire reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800.
Francia was divided into several parts ; West Francia would evolve into the Kingdom of France, while East francia would evolve into the Holy Roman Empire, a precursor to modern Germany.
The British Isles were the site of several large-scale migrations.
Native सेल्टिक peoples had महरूम marginalized during the period of Roman Britain, and when the Romans abandoned the अंग्रेजों Isles during the 400s, लहरें of germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern Britain और established a series of petty kingdoms in what होता आखिरकार develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927.
During this period, the Kingdom of Poland and Kingdom of Hungary ( 1000–1945 ) were organized as well.
The Viking आयु, a period of migrations of Scandinavian peoples, dominated the period from the late 700s to the मध्य 1000s.
Chief among the Viking राज्य थी the साम्राज्य of Cnut the ग्रेट, a Danish leader who होता become king of England, Denmark, और Norway.
the Normans, a Viking people who settled in उत्तरी France and founded the duchy of Normandy, would have a significant impact on many parts of Europe, from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily.
Another Scandinavian people, the Rus ' people, होता go on to मिला kievan rus ', an early state जिससे was a precursor for the modern country of रूस.
As the Viking आयु drew to a close, the period known as the क्रूसेड, a series of religiously-motivated military expeditions originally intended to लाओ the Levant back into Christian rule, began.
Several Crusader states यहूद founded in the eastern Mediterranean.
These were all short-lived.
The Crusaders would have a profound impact on many parts of यूरोपीय.
Their Sack of कुस्तुंतुनिया in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
Extinct श्वान breeds is a संकलन of dog breeds that have become extinct.
Wii बोलो is a माइक्रोफोन accessory for निन्टेंडो 's वी video खेल console.
Connected to the console via usb, the device can be placed near the video प्रदर्शक, allowing आवाज़ chat to be conducted with the entire room.
The device सुविधाएँ an LED to indicate जब the microphone is active.
वी बोलो was announced at Nintendo 's 2008 E3 media drug.
It was released separately and bundled साथ Animal Crossing : City Folk on November 16, 2008, in North America, and थी released on December 5, 2008, in यूरोपीय.
The Wii बोलो accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's gamepad controller.
निसान Intelligent Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and authorization प्रणाली which is available as an option or मानक in several गाड़ियाँ.
it was first developed by siemens in the mid-1990s and introduced by Mercedes-Benz under the नाम `` Keyless go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17, 1997.
univisión ( ) is a spanish-language television network in the United States.
The network is primarily dedicated for लैटिन अमरीकी families जो reside in the United States.
It रै the largest audience of Spanish-language television दर्शक in the world according to nielsen ratings.
Randy falco, ( सीईओ as of June 29, 2011 ) coo, रै been in charge of the कम्पनी चूंकि the departure of Univision Communications president and CEO जो Uva in April 2010.
In recent years the network रै पहुँचे पैरिटी with the U.S. 's five major English-language television संजाल, and is often a strong fifth, outranking The cw, with some fourth-place weekly placings, and as of 2012, even first place rankings लिये individual programs over all five English networks due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year.
Univisión is headquartered in New York, and has its major studios, production facilities, and operations in Doral, Florida, a suburb of Miami.
In 2009, another television studio was announced, Univision Studios, to be built in doral.
univision is available on cable and उपग्रह in सबसे of the country, with local stations in over 50 markets with large हिस्पैनिक and Latino populations and a national केबल संजाल feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station.
सबसे of these stations air full local news and other local programming in जोड to network shows, and in major markets such as लॉस Angeles, New York, and Miami the local newscasts carried by the network 's owned-and-operated स्टेशन ( O & O ) stations are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim saban 's Saban पूंजी Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ), TPG पूंजी, L.P., Providence Equity Partners, Madison dearborn Partners, and थामस H. Lee Partners लिये $ 13.7 अरब or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 अरब in acquired debt.
The buyout left the कम्पनी with a debt level of बारह टाइम्स its annual cash flow, which was twice the norm in buyouts done over the पिछला two सालो.
Artist 's conception of a protoplanetary disk
the formation और of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.6 अरब years ago साथ the gravitational collapse of a small भाग of a giant molecular cloud.
Most of the collapsing mass एकत्रित in the centre, forming the Sun, while the rest flattened into a protoplanetary disk आउट of which the ग्रह, moons, asteroids, and other small Solar System bodies formed.
इस widely स्वीकृत model, known as the nebular hypothesis, थी first developed in the 18th century by emanuel Swedenborg, immanuel Kant, and Pierre-Simon Laplace.
Its subsequent development has interwoven a किस्में of scientific disciplines सहित खगोलशास्त्र, physics, geology, और planetary science.
Since the भोर of the स्पेस age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar ग्रह in the 1990s, the model has been both challenged and refined to खाता for new observations.
The Solar System has evolved considerably since its initial गठन.
Many moons have formed from घूमना discs of gas and dust around their parent planets, जबकि other moons are thought to have formed independently and बाद been captured by their planets.
Still others, as the Earth 's चंद्रमा, may be the result of giant collisions.
Collisions between लाशें have occurred continually up to the present day and have been central to the evolution of the Solar प्रणाली.
The positions of the planets often shifted, और planets have switched places.
This ग्रहीय migration is now thought to have महरूम responsible लिये much of the Solar System 's early evolution.
In roughly 5 billion years, the Sun will cool and expand outward अनेक times its वर्तमान diameter ( becoming a रेड giant ), पहले casting off इसके outer layers as a planetary nebula and leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a white बौना.
In the far distant future, the gravity of गुजर stars will gradually reduce the Sun 's retinue of planets.
Some planets होगा be destroyed, others ejected into interstellar स्पेस.
Ultimately, over the course of tens of billions of years, it is likely that the Sun होगा be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it.
The विचारण ( Kafka 's original German शीर्षक :, later as, and ) is a novel written by Franz Kafka in 1914 and 1915 but not published until 1925.
एक of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the स्टोरी of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, inaccessible authority, with the nature of his crime नाज़िल to neither him nor the reader.
Like Kafka 's अन्य novels, The विचारण was never completed, although it करता include a अध्याय which brings the story to an end.
क्युकी of this there are निश्चित inconsistencies जिससे मौजूद भीतर the novel, such as असमानताओं in समय in addition to अन्य discontinuities in narration.
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his dost and साहित्यिक executor Max Brod edited the text for प्रकाशन by Verlag die Schmiede.
The original manuscript is आयोजित at the Museum of Modern Literature, Marbach am Neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the किताब थी listed in Le Mondes 100 Books of the Century and as no. 2 of the Best German Novels of the बीसवीं Century.
लिसा ऐनी Loeb ( born March 11, 1968 ) is an American singer-songwriter and actress.
She launched her career in 1994 with the song, `` Stay ( I छूटी तुम ) ``, जिससे was included in the film Reality Bites.
She थी the first artist to have a number one single in the United राज्य while not signed to a recording अनुबंध.
Her पाँच studio CDs include her major label debut, the gold-selling Tails and its follow-up, the Grammy-nominated, gold-selling पटाखा.
Loeb has also worked in film, टेलीविज़न, voice-over work and children’s रिकार्डिंग.
लोएब has appeared in दो television series, Dweezil & Lisa, a weekly culinary adventure for the खाना संजाल and Number 1 Single, a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on her quest for love, success, career, and परिवार.
उसके children 's music includes the एल्बम Catch the चंद्रमा ( 2003 ), and Camp लिसा ( 2008 ).
Her first joint children 's book and album Lisa लोएब 's Silly Sing-Along : The निराशाजनक Pancake and Other Zany Songs थी published in 2011.
In 2010 she founded the लिसा Loeb Eyewear Collection, which is आधारित on her अपना designs.
The Coat of arms of the राज्य of New Jersey includes:
A shield with तीन plows emblazoned, representative of नई Jersey 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing knight 's helmet.
A घोड़ा 's head as the crest of the helmet.
The female figures Liberty and Ceres, representative of the state 's motto ( देखिए next मद ).
स्वतंत्रता is holding a staff supporting a `` liberty cap `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the State Motto of New Jersey, `` Liberty और समृद्धि '', and the साल of statehood, 1776.
it was originally designed by Pierre यूजीन du Simitiere in 1777 and was modified थोड़ा in 1928.
The seal is the central motif in the flag of New Jersey and the Great मुहर of the State of नई Jersey.
The Coat of arms contains a horse 's head.
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself तदनुसार और three plows on a शील्ड referring to the State 's agriculture tradition, giving it the nickname `` Garden State ''.
The two Goddesses represent the State motto, `` Liberty और Prosperity ''.
Liberty is on the left.
She is पकड़कर a स्टाफ साथ a liberty cap on it, and the word liberty underneath her.
The goddess on the right is Ceres, goddess of agriculture.
She is holding a cornucopia with prosperity written below उसके.
according to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11, 1896, the date in which the Assembly officially approved the flag as the state emblem, the buff color is due indirectly to George Washington, जो had ordered on October 2, 1779, that the uniform coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be अंधेरा ( Jersey ) blue, with buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had until then been सुरक्षित तभी लिये his own uniform और those of other महाद्वीपीय generals and their aides.
तब, on February 28, 1780, the महाद्वीपीय युद्ध Officers in Philadelphia directed that the uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the same as the background रंग of the regiments ' state flag.
The seal is described in New Jersey statute Title 52, §2-1:
`` We can कार्य It आउट '' is a song by the Beatles, लिखा by Paul McCartney and John Lennon.
It was released as a `` double A-sided `` सिंगल with `` Day Tripper ``, the first time both sides of a single यहूद so designated in an आरंभिक release.
Both songs यहूद recorded दौरान the रबर आत्मा sessions.
The song is an उदाहरण of Lennon–McCartney collaboration at a गहराई that happened only rarely after they wrote the hit singles of 1963.
This सोंग, `` A दिन in the Life ``, `` Baby, You 're a Rich man `` and `` I 've Got a Feeling ``, are among the notable अपवाद.
As a medical diagnosis, pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric disorder in persons 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a प्राथमिक or exclusive sexual ब्याज toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger, though specific diagnosis मापदण्ड for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to आयु 13 ).
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or older must be at least पाँच years पुरानी than the prepubescent चाइल्ड before the आकर्षण can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term has a range of definitions, as found in psychiatry, psychology, the vernacular, and law enforcement.
The International वर्गीकरण of Diseases ( आईसीडी ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of adult personality और behaviour '' in which there is a यौन preference for children of prepubertal or early pubertal age.
According to the Diagnostic और सांख्यिकीय हस्तचालित of Mental Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years of age or older have intense and recurrent sexual प्रेरणाएं towards and fantasies about prepubescent children that they have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty.
In popular उपयोग, pedophilia अर्थात् any sexual interest in children or the act of child यौन abuse, often termed `` pedophilic बर्ताव ''.
For example, the American Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states, `` Pedophilia is the act or fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children. ''
This common use अनुप्रयोग also extends to the sexual interest in and sexual सम्पर्क साथ pubescent or post-pubescent minors.
शोधकर्ताओं recommend कि these imprecise uses be avoided because हालांकि people who commit चाइल्ड sexual abuse commonly exhibit the disorder, some offenders do not मिलें the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents.
Additionally, not all pedophiles actually commit such abuse.
Pedophilia was पहला formally recognized और named in the late 19th century.
A significant amount of research in the क्षेत्रफल has लिया प्लेस since the 1980s.
Although mostly documented in men, there are भी women who exhibit the disorder, and researchers assume available estimates underrepresent the true क्रमांक of female pedophiles.
No cure for pedophilia has been developed, but there are therapies that can reduce the incidence of a व्यक्ति committing child sexual abuse.
In the United States, following Kansas v. hendricks, sex offenders who हैं diagnosed with certain mental विकार, particularly pedophilia, can be subject to indefinite civil commitment, under various state कानून ( generically called SVP कानून ) और the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006.
At present, the exact causes of pedophilia have not been conclusively established.
Research suggests कि pedophilia may be correlated with अनेक different neurological abnormalities, and often co-exists with other personality disorders and मनोवैज्ञानिक pathologies.
In the contexts of forensic मनोविज्ञान और law प्रवर्तन, a variety of typologies have been suggested to categorize pedophiles according to behavior and motivations.
Julio César Chávez ( born Julio César Chávez González on जुलाई 12, 1962 ) is a retired Mexican पेशेवर boxer.
Chávez is माना by many लोगों लिये their sport statistics the greatest fighter ever to come out of Mexico.
He is a six-time संसार champion in three weight विभाजन, and for several years he थी considered एक of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
In a करियर that spanned over 25 years, Chávez won five world titles in three weight विभाजन : WBC Super Featherweight in 1984, WBA Lightweight in 1987, WBC lightweight in 1988, WBC लाइट Welterweight in 1989, ibf Light Welterweight in 1990, and wbc Light Welterweight in 1994.
he holds रिकॉर्ड for most successful consecutive defenses of world titles ( 27 ), most title fights ( 37 ), most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after जो Louis साथ ( 23 ) लिये most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ).
chávez भी has the longest undefeated streak in boxing history, 13 years.
His रिकार्ड was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to फ्रेंकी Randall and had an 87 fight win streak until his `` चित्रण '' साथ Whitaker.
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding पंचिंग power, devastating देह attack, remarkably strong chin and the relentless stalking of his opponents.
He ranks # 24 on ESPN 's 50 Greatest Boxers Of सब Time.
on December 7, 2010, he was inducted in the prestigious International Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011.
He is the father of prospect Omar Chávez and पूर्व WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez, Jr.
`` Selektion `` on the Judenrampe, Auschwitz, may/june 1944.
To be sent to the सही meant slave labor ; to the left, the गैस chamber.
This चित्र shows the arrival of Hungarian Jews इससे Carpatho-Ruthenia, many of उन्हें from the Berehov ghetto.
The photographer was Ernst Hofmann or Bernhard वाल्टर of the SS. चित्र courtesy of Yad vashem
The Holocaust ( इससे the Greek ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( Hebrew :, hashoah, `` catastrophe '' ; Yiddish :, Churben or Hurban, from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ), was the mass murder or genocide of लगभग छह million यहूदियों during World War II, a programme of व्यवस्थित state-sponsored हत्या by Nazi Germany, led by Adolf Hitler और the Nazi पार्टी, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in यूरोपीय before the Holocaust, approximately two-thirds were killed.
Over one लाख Jewish children were killed in the Holocaust, as were approximately दो लाख Jewish women and three million Jewish men.
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany और German-occupied territory were used to concentrate, hold, and kill Jews और other victims.
Some scholars argue that the mass हत्या of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the परिभाषा, and some use the आम noun `` holocaust '' to describe other Nazi द्रव्यमान हत्याएं, सहित those of सोवियत prisoners of war, पॉलिश और सोवियत civilians, और homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the fall of the Soviet Union indicates कुछ ten to eleven million civilians and बंदियों of war यहूद intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
The persecution and genocide were carried out in stages.
Various laws to remove the Jews from सिविल society, most prominently the Nuremberg Laws, were enacted in Germany सालो before the outbreak of World युद्ध II.
Concentration camps were established in which inmates were subjected to slave labor until they died of exhaustion or बीमारी.
Where Germany conquered नई territory in eastern Europe, specialized units पुकारा Einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and political opponents in mass shootings.
The occupiers required Jews और Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos before being transported by freight train to extermination camps where, if वे बच the journey, most were systematically killed in gas chambers.
Every भुजा of जर्मनी 's bureaucracy was शामिल in the logistics that led to the genocides, turning the Third Reich into what one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-H in the संयुक्त States is a youth organization administered by the National संस्थान of Food and Agriculture of the United States Department of Agriculture ( यूएसडीए ), with the mission of `` engaging युवावस्था to पहुँचें उनके fullest potential while advancing the field of युवावस्था development. ''
The नाम represents four personal विकास क्षेत्रों of फ़ोकस for the organization : head, दिल, हैंड्स, और health.
The organization रै over 6.5 million members in the संयुक्त States, from ages five to twenty-one, in लगभग 90,000 clubs.
The goal of 4-h is to develop citizenship, leadership, responsibility and life skills of youth through experiential learning programs and a positive युवावस्था development approach.
Though typically विचार of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history, 4-H today focuses on citizenship, healthy living, science, engineering, and technology कार्यक्रम.
Today, 4-H and related कार्यक्रम exist in over eighty देशों around the world ; the संगठन and administration varies from देश to country.
प्रत्येक of these programs operates independently, but cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges, वैश्विक education programs, and संचार.
The 4-H motto is `` To मेक the बेहतरीन better '', while इसके slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ).
The national flag of Chile, consists of two unequal horizontal bands of श्वेत और red और a blue square the same height as the श्वेत band in the canton, which bears a white five-pointed स्टार in the बीच.
It was अपनाया on 18 October 1817.
the Chilean flag is also known in Spanish as La Estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ).
The star represents a guide to progress and सम्मान ; blue symbolizes the sky and the Pacific Ocean, white is for the snow-covered Andes, and red stands for the blood spilled to achieve independence.
According to the epic poem La Araucana, the colors यहूद derived from those from the flag flown by the Mapuche during the arauco War.
`` Flag Day '' is held each year on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers जो died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción.
Generation Y, also known as the Millennial पीढी, is the demographic cohort following पीढी X.
वहीँ are no precise dates for when Generation y starts and ends.
Commentators use beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s, or from the early 1980s to the early 2000s.
The Torches of Nero, by Henryk Siemiradzki.
According to Tacitus, Nero targeted ईसाइयों as those responsible लिये the आग.
The Great Fire of Rome ( ) was an urban fire that occurred beginning 19 जुलाई AD 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the राष्ट्रमंडल of Virginia, is a U.S. state located in the South Atlantic region of the United States.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old डोमिनियन '' and the `` Mother of राष्ट्रपतियों '' after the eight U.S. presidents born वहीँ.
the geography और climate of the Commonwealth are तराशा by the ब्लू लकीरें Mountains and the Chesapeake Bay, जिससे provide आवास for much of its flora and fauna.
The capital of the Commonwealth is Richmond ; और वर्जिनिया बीच is the most populous नगर.
Fairfax County is the most populous political subdivision.
The wealthiest is Loudoun County.
The Commonwealth 's population is over eight million.
the area 's history begins with several indigenous groups, including the powhatan.
in 1607 the London Company स्थापित the उपनिवेश of Virginia as the first permanent New World English colony.
Slave मजदूर and the land acquired from विस्थापित Native American tribes each played a significant role in the उपनिवेश 's early politics and plantation economy.
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American Revolution and joined the confederacy in the American Civil युद्ध, during जिससे Richmond थी made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to form the राज्य of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया.
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction, both major national parties are competitive in modern Virginia.
The Virginia General Assembly is the oldest legislature in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध.
The state government has महरूम repeatedly ranked सबसे प्रभावी by the Pew बीच on the States.
it is unique in कैसा it treats शहरों and counties equally, manages local roads, और prohibits इसके राज्यपालों from serving consecutive शर्तें.
वर्जिनिया 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal एजेंसियों in Northern वर्जिनिया, including the headquarters of the Department of Defense और सीआईए ; and military facilities in Hampton Roads, the site of the प्रदेश 's main seaport.
वर्जिनिया 's पब्लिक schools and many colleges and universities have contributed to growing media and technology sectors.
As a परिणाम, computer chips have become the state 's leading export.
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie Maker, codenamed Sundance ) is a freeware video editing software by Microsoft.
It is a भाग of खिड़कियाँ Essentials तन्त्र सुइट and offers the ability to create और edit वीडियो as well as to प्रकाशित them on SkyDrive, Facebook, YouTube, and Flickr.
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut सिंगल by Tupac Shakur, and tenth track from his डेब्यू एल्बम, 2pacalypse Now.
the सोंग, which features R & B singer Dave Hollister, is परिचय a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who जीवनदान in a ghetto, रै a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
The song explores the issue of teen pregnancy and its effect on the यंग माताओं and उनके families.
Like अनेक of shakur 's songs, `` Brenda 's मिला a baby '' draws from the plight of the impoverished.
Using Brenda to represent यंग mothers in general, Shakur criticises the low level of support from the baby 's father, the सरकारी, and society in general.
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who got pregnant from her cousin and, because she did not want उसके parents to know about the baby, threw it in a trash can.
the official लोगो of Pokémon for its international रिलीज ; `` Pokémon '' is short for the असली Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a media franchise प्रकाशित and स्वामित्व by Japanese video game company Nintendo and निर्मित by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996.
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games developed by खेल freak, Pokémon has since become the second-most कामयाब और lucrative वीडियो game-based मीडिया मताधिकार in the world, behind only Nintendo 's own Mario मताधिकार.
Pokémon properties have since been merchandised into anime, manga, trading cards, खिलौने, books, और other मीडिया.
The franchise celebrated in 2006, और, संचयी बिक्री of the वीडियो games ( including घर console versions, such as the `` pikachu '' निन्टेंडो 64 ) have पहुँचे more than 200 million नक़ल.
In November 2005, 4kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game related licensing of Pokémon, announced कि it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation अनुबंध.
पोकीमॉन यूएसए Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company International ), a subsidiary of Japan 's Pokémon Co., now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia.
The नाम Pokémon is the romanized contraction of the जापानी brand.
The पद पोकीमॉन, in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the release of the fifth generation titles Pokémon ब्लैक 2 and White 2 ; साथ the आगामी रिलीज of Pokémon x and y, 6 नई Pokémon have महरूम प्रदर्शित in promotions लिये the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular and बहुवचन, as is each individual species नाम ; it is grammatically correct to कह `` one Pokémon '' और `` many पोकीमॉन '', as well as `` one Pikachu `` और `` many Pikachu ''.
कवर of the first edition of the publication दादा by ट्रिस्टन Tzara ; Zurich, 1917
दादा ( ) or Dadaism थी an art movement of the European avant-garde in the early 20th century.
Many claim Dada began in Zurich, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter but the ऊँचाई of नई York दादा was the year before in 1915.
To quote Dona Budd 's the Language of Art ज्ञान, Dada थी born आउट of negative reaction to the horrors of संसार War I.
This international movement was begun by a group of artist and कवियों associated with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich.
Dada rejected reason and logic, prizing nonsense, irrationality and intuition.
The origin of the name Dada is unclear ; some believe that it is a nonsensical word.
Others maintain that it originates from the Romanian कलाकारों Tristan tzara और Marcel Janco 's बारंबार use of the words da, da, meaning yes, यस in the Romanian भाषा.
Another theory says that the नाम `` Dada '' came during a बैठक of the group when a पेपर चाकू stuck into a French-German शब्दकोष happened to point to 'dada ', a French word for 'hobbyhorse '.
The movement primarily involved visual arts, literature, poetry, art manifestoes, art theory, theatre, and ग्राफिक design, and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works.
In addition to होने anti-war, Dada was भी anti- bourgeois and had political affinities with the कट्टरपंथी बाएँ.
Dada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, और publication of art/literary journals ; passionate coverage of art, politics, और culture were विषय often discussed in a variety of मीडिया.
Key आंकड़े in the गति included Hugo Ball, Emmy Hennings, Hans Arp, Raoul hausmann, Hannah Höch, Johannes Baader, ट्रिस्टन Tzara, Francis Picabia, रिचर्ड huelsenbeck, Georg Grosz, John Heartfield, Marcel Duchamp, Beatrice लकडी, Kurt Schwitters, and hans Richter, among others.
the गति influenced later styles like the avant-garde and downtown music movements, and समूह including surrealism, देवानंद réalisme, pop art and Fluxus.
Dada is the groundwork to अमूर्त आर्ट and ध्वनि poetry, a starting पाइंट for performance art, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on pop आर्ट, a celebration of antiart to be बाद embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the गति that lay the foundation for surrealism.
First trophic level.
The plants in इस image, and the शैवाल and phytoplankton in the lake, are primary producers.
They take nutrients from the मृदा or the water, and manufacture उनके own food by photosynthesis, using energy from the sun.
The trophic स्तर of an सजीव is the position it occupies in a food chain.
The word trophic गर्भाशयी from the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
a food chain represents a succession of जीवों that eat another organism और are, in turn, eaten themselves.
The क्रमांक of steps an सजीव is from the प्रारंभ of the chain is a माप of its trophic level.
खाना chains प्रारंभ at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as plants, move to herbivores at level 2, परभक्षी at level 3 and typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5.
The path along the chain can form either a one-way प्रवाह, or a food `` web. ''
ecological समुदायों with higher biodiversity form अधिक जटिल trophic paths.
Four of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण domesticated silk moths.
शीर्ष to bottom : Bombyx mori, hyalophora cecropia, Antheraea pernyi, Samia cynthia.
From Meyers Konversations-Lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
a silk-producing raspy cricket.
रेशा is a natural protein fibre, some forms of which can be woven into textiles.
the protein fibre of silk is composed mainly of fibroin and produced by certain insect larvae to form cocoons.
The best-known type of रेशा is obtained from the cocoons of the लार्वे of the शहतूत silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
the shimmering रूप of silk is due to the triangular प्रिज़्म -like structure of the silk fibre, जिससे allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at अलग कोण, thus producing different colors.
Silks are उत्पादित by several अन्य insects, but generally तभी the silk of शलभ caterpillars has been used for textile manufacturing.
वहीँ has been some research into other silks, which differ at the molecular level.
अनेक silks are mainly produced by the लार्वे of कीट undergoing complete metamorphosis, but some adult insects such as webspinners produce silk, और some insects such as raspy crickets produce रेशा throughout their lives.
Silk production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees, wasps, और ants ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, beetles, lacewings, fleas, flies and midges.
अन्य प्रकार of arthropod produce silk, most notably various arachnids such as spiders ( देखिए spider रेशा ).
Late Show with दाउद Letterman is an American late-night talk show hosted by David Letterman on CBS.
The दिखाएँ debuted on August 30, 1993, and is उत्पादित by Letterman 's production company, Worldwide Pants Incorporated.
The show 's music director and band-leader of the house band, the सीबीएस Orchestra, is Paul Shaffer.
The head writer is Matt Roberts and the announcer is Alan Kalter.
Of the major U.S. late-night programs, Late Show ranks second in संचयी average viewers over समय and third in क्रमांक of episodes over time.
The show लीड other late रात्रि shows in ad आय with $ 271 million in 2009.
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time, but is recorded Monday through Wednesday at 4:30 p.m., and Thursdays at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The second Thursday एपीसोड usually airs on Friday of that week.
In 2002, Late Show with David Letterman was ranked No. 7 on TV Guide 's 50 Greatest tv shows of All Time.
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the show through 2014 ; by then, Letterman will surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk दिखाएँ host.
The Real housewives of Orange County is an American reality documentary television program on Bravo, set in Orange County, California.
It was the first the रियल Housewives program in the series.
the श्रेणी is a voyeuristic dekh into the wealthy lives of these housewives, as they shop, get प्लास्टिक सर्जरी, gossip, लड़ो and live lavishly.
The वित्तीय crisis, the beginning of which coincided लगभग exactly with the पहला ऋतु 's broadcast, रै since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses, evictions, mortgage defaults, foreclosures, and marital stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show.
cyberstalking is the उपयोग of the अंतरजाल or other electronic अर्थात् to stalk or harass an individual, a group of individuals, or an organization.
It may शामिल the making of false आरोपों or कथन of फैक्ट ( as in defamation ), monitoring, making threats, identity theft, damage to data or equipment, the solicitation of minors for sex, or gathering information that may be used to harass.
The definition of `` उत्पीड़न '' जरूर meet the मानदंड that a उचित person, in कब्ज़ा of the वही information, would regard it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person तकलीफ.
Cyberstalking is अलग from spatial or offline stalking in कि it occurs through the उपयोग of electronic संचार technology such as the internet.
However, it sometimes leads to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both are criminal offenses.
Cyberstalking shares important characteristics with offline stalking.
Many stalkers – online or off – are motivated by a desire to control their victims.
A cyberstalker may be an online stranger or a person whom the target knows.
A cyberstalker may be anonymous और may solicit involvement of अन्य people ऑनलाइन who do not even know the target.
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that comes into play under state anti-stalking laws, slander laws, and उत्पीड़न laws.
A cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining order, probation, or even criminal penalties against the assailant, including jail.
A business letter is usually used when writing from one company to another, or लिये correspondence between such organizations and their customers, clients and other external parties.
The overall style of letter will निर्भर on the relationship between the parties concerned.
There are अनेक reasons to write a business letter.
it could be to निवेदन सीधा information or action from another party, to order supplies from a supplier, to identify a mistake that was committed, to reply directly to a request, to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill.
भी today, the business अक्षर is still very उपयोगी because it produces a permanent रिकार्ड, is confidential, formal and delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a hundred species of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe.
tilapia are मुख्यतः freshwater fish, inhabiting shallow streams, ponds, rivers and lakes, and less commonly found जीना in brackish water.
Historically, they have been of प्रमुख importance in कारीगर fishing in Africa and the Levant, and are of increasing महत्व in aquaculture.
Tilapia can become problematic invasive प्रजाति in new warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about.
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy drama crime फिल्मी starring tom Hanks and Beasley the Dog as the eponymous characters, Turner and Hooch respectively.
The film also stars घोड़ी winningham, Craig T. Nelson, and Reginald VelJohnson.
It थी directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the फिल्मी was originally slated to be directed by Henry Winkler, लकिन he was terminated due to `` creative differences ''.
it was co-written by Michael Blodgett from परे the Valley of the Dolls कीर्ति.
Although k-9 ( साथ जेम्स belushi ) थी released prior to this film ( exactly three महीने earlier ), टर्नर & Hooch became more popular and seemingly overshadowed its greater success, even हालांकि K-9 had a very समान प्लाट.
A pilot for a टर्नर & Hooch TV series was बना और ran as a भाग of The Magical World of डिज़्नी.
This is a सूची of Israeli airports, sorted by location.
Entrance to Ovda Airport
टर्मिनल 3 at Ben Gurion
Plane landing at Be'er Sheva ( Teyman )
Eilat Airport
एडोल्फ Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an आस्ट्रिया -born German राजनेता and the leader of the Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist जर्मनी Workers पार्टी ).
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 और तानाशाह of Nazi Germany ( as führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945.
Hitler was at the centre of Nazi Germany, संसार War II in Europe, and the Holocaust.
Hitler was a decorated veteran of संसार War i.
He joined the German Workers ' पार्टी ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919, and became नेता of the NSDAP in 1921.
in 1923, he attempted a coup d'état in म्यूनिख, known as the Beer हॉल putsch.
The विफल तख्तापलट resulted in Hitler 's कारावास, during which time he wrote उसके memoir, Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ).
After his release in 1924, Hitler gained popular support by attacking the सन्धि of versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism, antisemitism, and anti-communism साथ charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda.
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933, he रूपांतरित the Weimar Republic into the तीसरा reich, a single-party dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism.
Hitler 's aim was to establish a नई Order of absolute Nazi German hegemony in continental यूरोपीय.
to this end, his foreign और domestic policies had the aim of seizing Lebensraum ( `` living space '' ) for the Germanic people.
He directed the rearmament of Germany और the invasion of कैंडल by the Wehrmacht in September 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World युद्ध II in Europe.
अंतर्गत Hitler 's rule, in 1941 German forces and their यूरोपीय allies occupied most of Europe और North Africa.
In 1943, जर्मनी had been मजबूर onto the defensive and suffered a series of escalating defeats.
In the final days of the war, during the Battle of Berlin in 1945, Hitler married उसके long-time partner, Eva Braun.
on 30 April 1945, less than two days later, the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Red फौज, and their शवों यहूद burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign नीति is considered the main कारण of the outbreak of संसार War II in Europe.
His antisemitic policies and racially motivated विचारधारा resulted in the deaths of at least 5.5 लाख Jews, and millions of अन्य people deemed racially अवर.
thumb
A domain name is an पहचान string that defines a realm of प्रशासनिक autonomy, प्राधिकार, or control on the Internet.
डोमेन names are formed by the rules and प्रक्रियाओं of the Domain Name System ( DNS ).
Technically, any नाम पंजीकृत in the डीएनएस is a domain नाम.
Domain names are used in various networking contexts और application-specific naming and addressing purposes.
In सामान्य, a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource, such as a personal कंप्यूटर used to access the Internet, a सर्वर computer होस्टिंग a वेब site, or the web site itself or कोई other service communicated via the Internet.
डोमेन names are organized in subordinate levels ( subdomains ) of the DNS root domain, which is nameless.
The first-level set of domain names are the top-level domains ( TLDs ), including the generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ), ऐसे as the prominent डोमेन com, info, net and org, and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ).
Below ये top-level डोमेन in the डीएनएस hierarchy हैं the second-level and third-level डोमेन names कि हैं typically खोलें लिये reservation by end-users who wish to connect local area networks to the Internet, create other सरेआम accessible Internet resources or run web sites.
The पंजीकरण of these domain names is प्रायः administered by domain नाम registrars who sell their services to the public.
A fully qualified domain name ( FQDN ) is a domain name that is completely specified in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no omitted parts.
Domain names are प्रायः लिखा in lowercase, although labels in the Domain Name System are case-insensitive.
नाइट्रेट is a polyatomic ion with the आणविक सूत्र NO3− और a molecular mass of 62.0049 g/mol. Nitrates also describe the organic functional group RONO2.
ये nitrate esters are a specialized class of explosives.
A wheat harvest in Idaho
This फ़ोटो from a 1921 ज्ञानकोष shows a tractor ploughing a crop field.
कृषि is a major उद्योग in the United राज्य और the country is a net exporter of food.
As of the last जनसांख्यिकी of agriculture in 2007, there were 2.2 million farms, covering an area of, an average of per farm.
हालांकि agricultural activity occurs in most states, it is particularly concentrated in the vast expanse of flat, arable land ज्ञात as the Great Plains, which encompasses the central region of the nation.
The Mpemba effect, named after Tanzanian student Erasto Mpemba, is the assertion that warmer water can freeze faster than colder जल.
Although there is anecdotal support for the effect, there is no agreement on exactly what the effect is and under what circumstances it occurs.
There have been reports of similar phenomena since प्राचीन times, although with insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated.
The phenomenon seems contrary to thermodynamics, but a number of संभावित explanations for the effect have been proposed.
Further investigations will need to decide on a precise परिभाषा of `` freezing '' and control a vast number of starting parameters in order to confirm or explain the प्रभाव.
the Siamese (, ) is one of the first distinctly recognized breeds of Oriental बिल्ली.
The breed originated in थाईलैंड ( formerly known as Siam ), where they are one of several native breeds and are called wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a नाम meaning `` moon diamond '' ).
in the 20th century the Siamese बिल्ली became एक of the सबसे popular breeds in Europe and उत्तर America.
विशेषता Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue, Washington, with 64 stores in the Puget Sound region of Washington state और in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
In economics, the धन supply or money भण्डार, is the total amount of monetary assets available in an economy at a specific time.
वहीँ are several ways to define `` money, '' but मानक measures usually include currency in परिसंचरण and demand deposits ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily accessed assets on the books of financial institutions ).
धन supply data are recorded and published, usually by the government or the central bank of the country.
Public and निजी सेक्टर analysts have long monitored changes in money supply because of इसके effects on the price level, inflation, the exchange rate और the business cycle.
That relation between money and prices is historically associated with the quantity सिद्धान्त of money.
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct संबंध between money-supply growth and long-term price inflation, at least for rapid increases in the amount of money in the economy.
That is, a country such as Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases in its धन supply also saw rapid increases in prices ( hyperinflation ).
This is एक reason for the reliance on monetary policy as a means of controlling inflation.
The nature of इस causal chain is the subject of contention.
Some heterodox economists argue कि the money सप्लाई is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the अर्थव्यवस्था, not by the central bank ) and that the sources of महंगाई जरूर be मिला in the distributional ढांचा of the economy.
In addition, those अर्थशास्त्रियों seeing the central bank 's control over the money सप्लाई as feeble कह that there are two weak links between the growth of the money सप्लाई and the inflation rate.
First, in the aftermath of a मंदी, when many resources are underutilized, an increase in the money supply can cause a sustained increase in real production instead of inflation.
दूसरी, if the velocity of धन, i.e., the ratio between nominal जीडीपी and money supply, changes, an increase in the money supply could have either no effect, an अतिरंजित effect, or an unpredictable प्रभाव on the विकास of नाममात्र GDP.
Logo for IMAX.
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema, Wichita, Kansas, यूएसए, 601 seats.
A comparison between 35 mm and 15/70 mm negative areas.
IMAX ( an abbreviation for चित्र Maximum ) is a motion picture film format and a set of cinema projection मानकों created by the Canadian कम्पनी IMAX Corporation.
IMAX has the capacity to record and display images of far greater size and resolution than conventional फिल्मी systems.
Since 2002, some feature films have been परिवर्तित ( or upgraded ) into imax format for प्रदर्शक in IMAX theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX.
IMAX is the most widely used system for special-venue film प्रस्तुतियों.
, there हैं 697 IMAX theatres in 52 देशों.
आज 's Special is a Canadian children 's television दिखाएँ produced by Clive VanderBurgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and Values Channel/Odyssey ( अभी the hallmark Channel ) as well as many pbs stations throughout the United States.
It was नियत in a department store, based on the flagship location of the now defunct सिम्पसन 's in Toronto.
अनेक sequences लिये it were शॉट at the Queen Street West और Yonge Street स्टोर after घंटों.
संविधानवाद, in इसके most general meaning, is `` a complex of ideas, attitudes, and patterns of behavior elaborating the principle that the authority of सरकारी गर्भाशयी from and is limited by a body of आधारभूत law ''.
a राजनैतिक organization is संवैधानिक to the extent कि it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति control for the protection of the interests and liberties of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority ``.
As वर्णित by राजनैतिक scientist and constitutional scholar David fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also ज्ञात as brain freeze, cold-stimulus headache, or its given scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( अर्थ `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ), is a रूप of ब्रैड cranial pain or सिरदर्द commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold पेय or भोजन such as ice cream and ice pops.
It is caused by having something cold touch the छत of the मुँह ( palate ), and is believed to परिणाम from a nerve जवाब causing rapid constriction and swelling of रक्त vessels or a `` referring `` of पीड़ा इससे the roof of the mouth to the head.
The rate of intake for ठंडा foods रै been studied as a contributing factor.
There are people who can not experience `` brain freeze '' or similar symptoms.
The term ice-cream headache has been in उपयोग since at least 31 January 1937, contained in a journal entry by रेबेका Timbres published in the 1939 book We did n't पूछो Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia.
The पहला प्रकाशित use of the पद brain freeze, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, थी on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : नोट `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स poem written by Robert burns in 1788 and set to the tune of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ).
It is well known in many countries, especially in the English-speaking world ; its traditional use being to celebrate the start of the New Year at the स्ट्रोक of midnight.
By extension, it is also sung at funerals, graduations and as a farewell or ending to अन्य अवसरों.
The international लड़के Scout youth गति, in many countries, uses it as a close to jamborees और other functions.
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English वस्तुतः as `` बूढ़ा long since '', or more idiomatically, `` long long ago '', `` दिनों gone by '' or `` बूढ़ा times ''.
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '', as it appears in the first line of the chorus, might be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times ''.
The phrase `` Auld Lang syne '' is भी used in समान poems by रॉबर्ट Ayton ( 1570–1638 ), Allan ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), and James Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns.
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time...
`` in उसके retelling of fairy किस्से in the स्कॉट्स भाषा.
Ben Schulz, player of Leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and प्रायः elongated with numerous additional अक्षर, is an अंतरजाल मीम नामित for a player अक्षर created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's mmorpg, संसार of Warcraft.
the character became popular due to a video of the खेल that circulated around the Internet.
The phenomenon has since spread beyond the सीमाएँ of the gaming जातियाँ into other ऑनलाइन and mainstream media.
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police अधिकारी Johannes mehserle in Oakland, California, United States, in the early morning hours of New साल 's दिन 2009.
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit ट्रैन returning from San Francisco, BART Police officers detained ऑस्कर Grant and several other passengers on the मंच at the Fruitvale BART Station.
Officer Johannes Mehserle and another officer were restraining Grant, who थी prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest.
Officer mehserle stood and, according to witnesses, कहा : `` Get back, I 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then Mehserle drew his गन और shot Grant once in the back ; Mehserle appeared stunned, put his hands to his head and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
दौरान उसके अदालत testimony, Mehserle कहा that Grant then exclaimed, `` You शॉट me ! ''
Grant turned आउट to be unarmed ; he was pronounced dead the अगला morning at Highland Hospital in ओकलैंड.
The events were captured on अनेक डिजिटल video and cell phone cameras.
The फुटेज was disseminated to media outlets and to विभिन्न websites, जहाँ it was watched millions of टाइम्स.
The following days देखी दोनो peaceful और violent विरोध.
The shooting रै been variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter और a summary execution.
On January 13, Alameda County prosecutors charged Mehserle with murder for the shooting.
He resigned his position and pleaded not guilty.
the विचारण began on June 10, 2010.
Michael rains, Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney, argued that Mehserle mistakenly shot Grant with his pistol, intending to उपयोग his Taser जब he saw Grant reaching for उसके waistband.
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los Angeles न्यायधीश to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
Oakland civil rights attorney John burris filed a $ 25 million wrongful मौत claim विरूद्ध BART on behalf of ग्रान्ट 's family.
On July 8, 2010, the jury लौटे इसके verdict : Mehserle was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter और नहीं guilty of second-degree हत्या और voluntary manslaughter.
आरंभिक protests against the ruling यहूद peacefully organized ; looting, arson, destruction of property, and small दंगे broke out बाद dark.
Nearly 80 people यहूद eventually arrested.
on Friday, जुलाई 9, 2010, the u.S. Justice Department खोली a सिविल rights case against mehserle ; the संघीय government can prosecute him independently for the वही अधिनियम under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy.
the Department of Justice होगा be working with the u.S. Attorney 's office in सैन Francisco and the एफबीआई.
on नवम्बर 5, 2010, mehserle was sentenced to two years, minus time served.
He served his समय in the Los एंजिल्स County कारावास, occupying a private cell away from other prisoners.
He was released on June 13, 2011 and is now on parole.
Major प्रतिनिधि of the Harlem Renaissance.
The हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण थी a सांस्कृतिक movement that spanned the 1920s.
At the time, it was known as the `` New Negro Movement '', named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke.
Though it was centered in the Harlem पड़ोस of New York City, many French-speaking black लेखक इससे African and caribbean colonies who जिया in Paris were also बहकावे by the Harlem Renaissance.
The Harlem Renaissance is unofficially recognized to have spanned from परिचय 1919 जबतक the early or mid-1930s.
Many of its ideas lived on much longer.
The zenith of this `` flowering of नीग्रो literature '', as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance, was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A Journal of Negro Life hosted a party for black writers जहाँ many white publishers were in attendance ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ).
African राज्य between 500 BCE और 1500 ce
Obelisk at temple of Luxor, Egypt.
c. 1200 BCE.
African knight of Baguirmi in पूरा padded armour suit.
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of Africa and the emergence of Homo sapiens in ईस्ट Africa, continuing into the present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation राज्य.
Some जल्दी evidence of agriculture in अफ़्रीकी dates from 16,000 bce, and metallurgy इससे परिचय 4000 BCE.
The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt, और later in Nubia, the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa.
During the Middle Ages, Islam spread through the regions.
Crossing the Maghreb and the Sahel, a major center of Muslim culture was Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial states और societies in Africa include the Nok culture, Mali Empire, Ashanti Empire, Kingdom of Mapungubwe, Kingdom of Sine, Kingdom of saloum, Kingdom of Baol, Kingdom of Zimbabwe, Kingdom of Kongo, Ancient Carthage, Numidia, Mauretania, the Aksumite Empire, the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate.
From the late 15th century, Europeans and Arabs took slaves from वेस्ट, Central and Southeast Africa overseas in the African slave trade.
European colonization of Africa developed rapidly in the हाथापाई for Africa of the लेट 19th and early 20th centuries.
Following struggles for independence in many parts of the महाद्वीप, as well as a weakened Europe बाद the Second World War ; decolonization took place.
Africa 's history has been challenging for researchers in the field of African studies क्युकी of the scarcity of लिखा sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
Scholarly तकनीकों such as the recording of oral history, ऐतिहासिक linguistics, archaeology and आनुवंशिकी have महरूम crucial.
Curry Foley was the first खिलाड़ी in Major League बेसबॉल इतिहास to hit for the cycle.
In baseball, hitting लिये the cycle is the accomplishment of एक बैटर hitting a single, a double, a triple, and a home run in the वही game.
Collecting the हिट्स in that order is known as a `` natural cycle ''.
चक्र हैं uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ), and have occurred 294 times since the first by Curry Foley in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as आम as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it रै been called `` one of the rarest '' and `` most मुश्किल feats '' in baseball.
Based on 2009 offensive स्तर, the probability of an average MLB player hitting for a cycle विरूद्ध an average team in a game is approximately 0.00590 % ; इस corresponds to about 2.5 चक्र in a 162-game season with 30 teams.
In other baseball leagues, the cycle is achieved less frequently.
Through September 4, 2008, 62 players in निप्पन Professional Baseball ( NPB ), the top-level baseball संगठन in जापानी, have hit for the cycle, the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara.
दो players have hit for the cycle on the वही day once in NPB history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history.
एक npb player has भी hit लिये the cycle in an npb All-Star game.
No player has कभी hit for the cycle in the MLB All-Star Game or the postseason.
The main slave routes in medieval Africa.
This आलेख discusses systems, इतिहास, and effects of slavery within Africa.
See Arab slave trade, Atlantic slave trade, Maafa, और Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` Slave transport in Africa ''.
europeans usually did not enter the interior regions.
गुलामी in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many centuries, and continues in the वर्तमान day.
Systems of servitude and गुलामी were common in many parts of the continent, as वे were in much of the ancient संसार.
In most African समाजों where slavery was प्रचलित, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
जब the Arab slave trade and अटलांटिक slave trade began, many of the लोकल स्लेव systems changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa.
गुलामी in historical अफ़्रीकी was practiced in many different forms and some of these do नहीं clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, और criminal गुलामी were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although वहीँ had been कुछ trans-Saharan trade इससे the आंतरिक of sub-saharan Africa to other regions, slavery थी a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the परिचय of transcontinental slave trades ( अरब और Atlantic ).
स्लेव practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the जल्दी 1900s.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included साथ the Microsoft Windows NT family of ऑपरेटिंग systems कि provides limited information about computer performance और running applications, प्रक्रियाओं and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and system services ( and as प्रायः is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for खिड़कियाँ, 3rd party software is available जिससे fills the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` प्रणाली Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be प्रयुक्त to set process प्राथमिकताएं, प्रोसेसर affinity, forcibly terminate processes, और shut down, restart, hibernate or log off from खिड़कियाँ.
Windows Task Manager was introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
Previous versions of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य List अनुप्रयोग, जिससे had far fewer features.
The task list was capable of listing currently running प्रक्रियाओं and killing them, or creating a नई process.
in Windows XP only, a shutdown menu is also present that allows अभिगम to Standby, hibernate, फेरे बंद, Restart, Log Off and Switch User.
Earlier versions of microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) था a program known as tasks to display the कार्यक्रम currently कार्यशील.
This file was executed by running the taskman.exe file from the c : \Windows निर्देशिका.
the Troop is an American-Canadian live-action, single camera comedy -adventure television श्रेणी about a trio of teenagers who fight और capture monsters and अन्य supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional कस्बा of Lakewood.
Created and executive produced by Max Burnett, Greg Coolidge and Chris Morgan, the series premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18, 2009.
The second season premiered on June 25, 2011 and Nickelodeon रद्द the series midway through it 's second ऋतु.
the remaining एपीसोड of season 2 were aired on Nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely आबादी in relation to its क्षेत्रफल, the Democratic गणतंत्र of the Congo ( drc ) is home to a vast potential of natural resources and mineral wealth, its untapped deposits of raw minerals are estimated to be worth in excess of US $ 24 trillion, yet the economy of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s.
At the time of its independence in 1960, DRC was the second most industrialized देश in अफ़्रीकी after दक्षिण Africa ; it boasted a thriving mining सेक्टर and its agriculture सेक्टर was relatively productive.
If the दर्शक stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and stares at a white object, a negative afterimage होगा appear ( in this case, it होगा be cyan on magenta ).
This can also be achieved by the दर्शक closing his/her eyes और tilting उनके head up.
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an optical illusion that refers to an image continuing to appear in one 's दृष्टि after the exposure to the original image has ceased.
एक of the most common afterimages is the bright glow that seems to फ्लैश before one 's eyes after looking into a लाइट source for a few seconds.
Closing the नजर can help achieve a better sense of the color in इसके own aspect.
Afterimages come in two forms, negative ( उलट ) and positive ( retaining original color ).
The process behind positive afterimages is unknown, हालांकि thought to be सम्बन्धित to neural adaptation.
On the अन्य hand, ऋणात्मक afterimages are a retinal phenomenon and are well understood.
Lost is an American सीरियल नाटक television series that premiered on September 22, 2004 on the अमरीकी प्रसारण Company ( ABC ).
The series थी created by J. J. Abrams और Damon Lindelof, based upon an original pilot script titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber.
छह seasons of the show aired, in addition to numerous clip shows to recap previous episodes.
ABC announced कि खोया would end after six seasons, having produced a total of 121 episodes.
The series फ़ॉलो the past, present, and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane crash on a passenger jet, oceanic उड़ान 815, flying from Sydney to Los Angeles बाद it crashes on a tropical island in the दक्षिण Pacific.
The series भी includes stories of the lives of people already living on the island — they शामिल the `` Others ``, who initially antagonize the survivors, as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana.
Each episode typically features action on the island as खूब as a secondary storyline from another point in a character 's life.
Season 6 सुविधाएँ a detailing of the जीवनदान of the survivors in a अलग reality, as if the flight had never crashed.
In the following list, the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the अक्षर or characters जो हैं featured in the secondary storyline of प्रत्येक episode.
`` no.
in series '' refers to the एपीसोड 's number in the overall श्रेणी, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the episode 's number in each particular ऋतु.
`` U.S. दर्शक ( million ) '' refers to the number of Americans in millions who watched the एपीसोड सजीव.
A total of 121 episodes of Lost यहूद produced, the last of which aired on May 23, 2010.
All seasons are उपलब्धियाँ on DVD in Regions 1–4 and on Blu-ray in regions a और B.
Flat feet ( also पुकारा pes planus or fallen arches ) is a औपचारिक reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the पैर collapses, with the entire एकमात्र of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground.
in some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general population ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ).
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have दिखाया no evidence of later increased चोट, or पैर problems, due to चपटा फीट, in a population of people who reach सैन्य सेवा आयु without prior foot problems.
however, these अध्ययन can not be used to judge possible भविष्य damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages.
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat feet are associated साथ foot symptoms, or certain symptoms in other parts of the body ( such as the लेग or back ) possibly referable to the foot.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to Gen X, is the generation born बाद the Western post-World युद्ध ii baby boom.
Demographers, इतिहासकारों and commentators use beginning birth तिथियाँ from the जल्दी 1960s to the early 1980s.
The पद was popularized by Douglas coupland 's 1991 novel Generation X : Tales for an Accelerated संस्कृति.
Before that, it had been used लिये विभिन्न subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s.
दबाव ulcers, also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, are localized injuries to the skin and/or underlying ऊतक usually over a bony prominence, as a result of pressure, or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction.
Most commonly this will be the sacrum, coccyx, heels or the hips, but other sites such as the elbows, knees, ankles or the वापस of the cranium can be affected.
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure applied to soft tissue so that blood flow to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed.
Shear is also a cause ; shear pulls on blood बरतन that feed the स्किन.
Pressure छाले सबसे commonly develop in persons who are not चलती about or are confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed that other factors can influence the सहिष्णुता of skin for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of दबाव अल्सर development.
These कारकों are protein-calorie malnutrition, microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), diseases that reduce blood flow to the skin, such as arteriosclerosis or रोगों that reduce the feeling in the skin, such as paralysis or न्यूरोपैथी.
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the आयु of the person, medical conditions ( such as arteriosclerosis, diabetes or infection ), smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory दवाएँ.
Although often prevented and treatable if found early, pressure ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in critically ill patients, frail elders, wheelchair users ( especially where spinal injury is involved ) and terminally ill मरीजों.
Primary prevention is to redistribute दबाव by turning the patient regularly.
The benefit of turning to avoid further sores is well documented since at तनिक the 19th सदी.
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair, खाने a balanced diet with adequate protein and keeping the स्किन free इससे exposure to urine and स्टूल is very important.
the prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospital जमावट is high, but improvements are being बना.
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International दबाव Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted in Canada, there was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010.
Ulcers were most commonly पहचाना at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however, एड़ी ulcers were the most common facility-acquired location in the survey.
Overboard is a 1987 American रोमांटिक comedy film starring Goldie hawn and Kurt रसेल.
It was directed by गैरी Marshall, produced by Roddy McDowell, and loosely inspired by the 1974 Italian film swept Away.
In turn, Overboard was adapted into the 2006 South Korean television series, Couple or ट्रबल.
Green Bay is a city in और the county seat of Brown County in the u.S. state of Wisconsin, located at the head of Green Bay, a sub-basin of Lake Michigan, at the mouth of the Fox River.
It has an उन्नयन of above sea level and is located north of Milwaukee.
The population was 104,057 at the 2010 census.
It is the third-largest city in the state of Wisconsin, after Milwaukee and मैडिसन.
It is also the third-largest city on the वेस्ट shore of Lake मिशिगन, after Chicago और Milwaukee.
Green Bay is घर to the Green खाड़ी Packers of the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग, making it by far the smallest metropolitan क्षेत्रफल in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise.
ग्रीन Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय Area, जिससे कवर Brown, Kewaunee, and Oconto काउंटी and had a combined population of 282,599 at the 2000 census.
ग्रीन Bay is an industrial city with several meatpacking and paper plants, and a port on Green Bay, an arm of Lake Michigan that locals call the Bay of Green खाड़ी, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
It is घर to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville Public Museum, with प्रदर्शनियों of art, history, and विज्ञान ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay.
Luteinizing hormone ( LH, also ज्ञात as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone उत्पादित by gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland.
In females, an acute वृद्धि of lh ( `` lh surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the कॉर्पस luteum.
In males, where LH had भी been called अंतरालीय cell-stimulating hormone ( ICSH ), it stimulates Leydig cell production of टेस्टोस्टेरोन.
it acts synergistically with FSH.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez ( April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995 ), known simply as Selena, was an American singer-songwriter.
She was named the `` top लैटिन artist of the '90s '' and `` बेहतरीन selling Latin artist of the decade '' by Billboard for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top लैटिन गीतों chart, including seven number-one hits.
Selena had the सबसे successful singles of 1994 and 1995, `` Amor Prohibido `` और `` No Me Queda Más ``.
She was called `` The Queen of Tejano म्यूज़िक `` and the मैक्सिकन equivalent of मैडोना.
Selena released her first album, Selena y Los Dinos, at the age of बारह.
She जीती Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 tejano Music पुरस्कार and landed a recording contract with EMI a few years later.
Her कीर्ति grew throughout the early 1990s, especially in Spanish-speaking countries, and she had begun रिकॉर्डिंग in English as well.
सेलिना थी murdered at the age of 23 on March 31, 1995 by yolanda Saldívar, the former president of her प्रशंसक club.
On April 12, 1995, two weeks बाद her death, George W. बुश, governor of Texas at the समय, declared उसके birthday `` Selena Day '' in टेक्सास.
Warner Bros. produced सेलिना, a film based on उसके life starring Jennifer Lopez, in 1997.
Selena 's life was भी the आधार of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as सेलिना.
In June 2006 Selena थी commemorated with a life-sized bronze statue ( Mirador de la Flor in कॉर्पस Christi, Texas ) and a सेलिना museum opened there.
वो रै sold over 60 लाख एल्बम worldwide, making her एक of the best-selling artists of all time.
She is also the only female artist to have five albums in U.S. Billboard 200 at the same time.
German Stahlhelm इससे World War II
Insignia of the bolivian फौज Colorados regiment, showing a Stahlhelm और दो crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( plural, Stahlhelme ) is जर्मनी for `` स्टील helmet ''.
The Imperial German Army began to replace the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with the stahlhelm during World War I in 1916.
The term stahlhelm refers both to a जेनेरिक steel helmet, and अधिक specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) जर्मनी design.
The Stahlhelm, with its distinctive `` कोयले scuttle `` आकार, was an instantly recognizable icon लिये सैन्य imagery and became a common element of सैन्य propaganda on दोनो sides, बस like the Pickelhaube before it.
इसके name थी also used by the Stahlhelm, a paramilitary nationalist संगठन स्थापित at the समाप्त of 1918.
Glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the production और उत्सर्जन of light by a जीना organism
Chemiluminescence, is the emission of light ( luminescence ) without emission of heat
Phosphorescence, a specific type of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence, production of luminescence in a material by the बमबारी of ionizing विकिरण
Glow in the Dark Tour, a 2008 concert tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a hub city लिये Lufthansa और receives flights इससे Star Alliance carriers.
Airline hubs are airports क्रमित as विशाल, medium, छोटी, and non-hubs as एक of the faa airport categories which are re-evaluated every year based on number of commercial यात्री.
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an विमानक्षेत्र that an airline uses as a transfer point to get यात्री to उनके intended गंतव्य.
It is part of a हब और spoke model, where travelers moving between airports not served by direct flights change planes en रूट to their destinations.
इस is as opposed to the Point to Point model.
Many hubs of the एयरलाइंस हैं also situated at airports in the cities of the respective head कार्यालयों.
कुछ airlines may use only a single hub, while other airlines use multiple hubs.
Hubs are used for both passenger flights as well as cargo flights.
Many एयरलाइंस also use फ़ोकस cities, which फलन much the same as hubs.
Airlines may also use secondary hubs, a non-technical पद for large focus cities.
A hub in the middle of a route is more effective than at either end as connecting traffic more easily fills the plane - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route.
Hollow lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city that stood on the hill of Therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of डोरियन Sparta.
Across the घाटी the successive ridges of Mount Taygetus are in evidence.
स्पार्टा ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ), or Lacedaemon, थी a prominent city-state in ancient Greece, situated on the banks of the Eurotas River in Laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th century bc, when the invading Dorians subjugated the लोकल, non-Dorian population.
Around 650 BC, it rose to become the dominant military land-power in ancient Greece.
दिए इसके military pre-eminence, Sparta was recognized as the overall leader of the combined Greek forces during the greco-persian Wars.
Between 431 and 404 BC, स्पार्टा was the प्रिंसिपल enemy of Athens during the Peloponnesian War, from which it emerged victorious, though at great लागत.
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of Leuctra in 371 BC ended Sparta 's prominent role in Greece.
However, it maintained its political independence until the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC.
it तब underwent a long period of decline, विशेषकर in the मध्य Ages, when many Spartans moved to live in Mystras.
Modern Sparta is the capital of the Greek regional ईकाई of laconia and a center for the प्रसंस्करण of goods such as citrus and olives.
Sparta थी unique in ancient Greece for its social system और संविधान, which completely focused on सैन्य प्रशिक्षण and excellence.
Its inhabitants were classified as spartiates ( spartan नागरिकों, जो enjoyed full अधिकारों ), Mothakes ( non-Spartan फ़्री men raised as Spartans ), Perioikoi ( freedmen ), and Helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local population ).
spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training and education regimen, and Spartan phalanges were widely considered to be among the best in बैटल.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably more rights and equality to men than elsewhere in the classical world.
Sparta थी the विषय of fascination in its अपना दिन, as खूब as in the West following the revival of classical learning.
This प्रेम or admiration of Sparta is known as Laconism or Laconophilia.
Fantasy football is an interactive competition in which users compete against each other as general managers of virtual teams.
the players that an individual is able to मैनेज are professional अमरीकी football खिलाड़ी in the National Football League.
The different क्रियाएँ people are able to make are drafting, trading, adding or छोड़ने players, and changing rosters.
Due to the growth of the Internet, Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity, particularly because काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल providers ऐसे as ESPN, याहू, CBS, and the NFL itself are able to keep track of आंकडे entirely online, eliminating the need to जाँच box scores and अखबारों regularly to keep track of players.
सबसे leagues have a सिंगल week championship in Week 16 of the NFL ऋतु.
संसार population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and US Census ब्यूरो historical estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded population figures are in blue.
According to the highest अनुमान, the संसार population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may मनाही to 6 billion.
The world population is the total number of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to number billion by the United States Census Bureau ( uscb ).
the USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 अरब on कूच 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population निधि, it reached this पड़ाव on October 31, 2011.
The world जनसांख्यिकी has experienced continuous विकास since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s, और for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The विकास rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births यहूद highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths क्रमांक 56 लाख per साल, and हैं expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or भी overall decline in the global जनसांख्यिकी by 2150.
Some विश्लेषकों have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food आपूर्तियाँ, and energy संसाधन.
skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost प्रत्येक muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral मांसपेशियां, found on both sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this आलेख.
Nevertheless, the सटीक number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding कया is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as अनेक muscles.
Examples range from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human देह can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head और गर्दन, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and मांसपेशियां of the lower limbs.
the action refers to the action of each muscle इससे the standard anatomical position.
In other positions, अन्य actions may be performed.
A gold bar is a quantity of refined metallic gold of कोई shape that is made by a बार producer meeting standard conditions of manufacture, labeling, and record keeping.
Larger gold bars that are produced by pouring the molten metal into molds are called ingots.
Smaller bars may be manufactured by minting or stamping from appropriately rolled gold sheets.
the standard सुनहरा bar held as gold reserves by central बैंको और traded among bullion डीलर is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good डिलीवरी gold bar.
the kilobar, which is to say 1000 grams in mass, is the बार that is more manageable and is used extensively for trading and investment.
The premium on these bars when traded is very low over the spot value of the सुनहरा बनाना it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders.
Most kilobars हैं flat, although some investors, particularly in Europe, prefer the brick आकार.
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19, 1949 ) is a former American football क्वार्टरबैक in the National Football League, playing for the नई Orleans संतो from 1971 to 1982, then for the Houston Oilers and मिनेसोटा Vikings.
he is the father of वर्तमान डेनवर Broncos quarterback Peyton मैनिंग, current New York दिग्गज starting quarterback Eli मैनिंग, and former Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning.
Advocacy is a political process by an individual or समूह जिससे aims to influence public-policy and resource आवंटन निर्णय within political, आर्थिक, and social systems and संस्थानों.
वकालत can include many क्रियाएँ that a व्यक्ति or organization undertakes सहित media अभियान, public speaking, commissioning और publishing research or polls or the दाखिल of an amicus ब्रैड.
Lobbying ( often by लॉबी groups ) is a form of advocacy जहाँ a direct approach is made to legislators on an issue जिससे plays a significant role in modern politics.
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the u.S. and Canada are using social media to facilitate civic engagement and collective action.
The ध्वज of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a vertical tricolor of green, white, and रेड with the national कोट of बाहें चार्ज in the बीच of the white stripe.
While the meaning of the colors रै changed over time, these three colors were adopted by Mexico following independence इससे स्पेन during the country 's War of Independence, and subsequent First Mexican Empire.
the वर्तमान ध्वज थी adopted in 1968, but the overall design has महरूम used since 1821, when the First National Flag was created.
The current विधि of national symbols, विधि on the National Arms, Flag, and गान, that governs the use of the national flag has been in प्लेस since 1984.
Red, white, and green are the colors of the नेशनल liberation army in Mexico.
The सेंट्रल emblem is the Aztec pictogram for Tenochtitlan ( now Mexico City ), the center of their empire.
It recalls the लेजेंड that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what थी originally a lake-island.
the form of the coat of arms was most recently revised in 1968.
A ribbon in the नेशनल रंगों is at the bottom of the coat of arms.
Throughout history, the flag has changed four टाइम्स, as the design of the कोट of arms and the length-width ratios of the flag have महरूम परिवर्धित.
however, the coat of arms has had the वही सुविधाएँ throughout : an eagle, holding a serpent in its talon, is perched on top of a prickly pear cactus ; the कैक्टस is situated on a rock that उदय above a lake.
The coat of arms is derived from an Aztec legend that their gods बताई उन्हें to निर्माण a नगर where they spot an eagle on a nopal eating a serpent, which is now Mexico नगर.
The current नेशनल ध्वज, the Fourth National ध्वज, is भी used as the मैक्सिकन naval ensign by ships registered in Mexico.
A गंतव्य marketing संगठन or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town, city, region, or country in order to बढ़ाएँ the number of visitors.
It promotes the development and marketing of a destination, focusing on सम्मेलन sales, पर्यटन marketing, and सेवाएं.
Such organizations promote economic development of a गंतव्य by increasing visits from पर्यटकों and business travelers, which generates overnight lodging for a गंतव्य, visits to रेस्तरां, and shopping revenues.
Convention और visitor bureaus हैं the most महत्वपूर्ण tourism विपणन organizations in their respective पर्यटक गंतव्यों, as वे are directly जिम्मेदार for marketing the destination brand through travel and tourism `` product जागरूकता '' to visitors.
DMOs उपज अरबों of dollars in direct and indirect revenue and taxes लिये उनके destinations ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise.
Destination marketing organizations are often called travel, सम्मेलन, visitors, or tourism bureaux, welcome centers, information centers and more.
regardless of the name, ये organizations offer many services to the traveling पब्लिक.
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is one of the largest species of deer in the world, और one of the largest जमीन स्तनधारियों in North America and पूर्वी Asia.
It थी long believed to be a subspecies of the European red deer ( Cervus elaphus ), but प्रमाण from a 2004 पढ़ाई of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the दो are distinct species.
This एनिमल चाहिए नहीं be confused with the larger मूस ( alces alces ), to which the name `` नीलगाय '' applies in Eurasia.
अलावा from the moose, the only other member of the deer family to प्रतिद्वंद्वी the elk in size is the south एशियाई sambar ( Rusa unicolor ).
Elk range in वन and forest-edge habitat, feeding on grasses, पौधे, leaves, और bark.
हालांकि native to North America and eastern Asia, they have adapted well to countries where they have been introduced, including Argentina, Australia, और New Zealand.
Their ग्रेट adaptability may threaten endemic species and ecosystems into which वे have been introduced.
Male elk have विशाल antlers which are shed each year.
Males भी engage in ritualized समागम behaviors during the rut, including posturing, antler wrestling ( sparring ), and bugling, a loud श्रेणी of vocalizations जिससे establishes dominance over other males और attracts females.
Elk are susceptible to a number of infectious diseases, some of which can be transmitted to livestock.
Efforts to eliminate संक्रामक diseases from elk populations, largely through vaccination, have had mixed success.
Some संस्कृतियों revere the elk as a spiritual force.
in भाग of Asia, antlers and their मखमल हैं used in परंपरागत medicines.
Elk are hunted as a game species ; the meat is leaner और higher in protein than beef or chicken.
The George Washington University ( gw, GWU, or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private, coeducational research university located in वॉशिंगटन, D.C..
It awards प्रमाणपत्र, Bachelor degrees, Masters degrees, and PhDs across अनेक dozen disciplines.
the विश्वविद्यालयों थी chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9, 1821 as The columbian College in the District of Columbia.
the lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the four big cats in the genus पेंथेरा and a member of the family फ़ेलिडाए.
With कुछ males exceeding in weight, it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger.
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan अफ़्रीकी और in एशिया ( जहाँ an endangered remnant population resides in Gir Forest National Park in India ) while other types of lions have disappeared from North अफ़्रीकी और दक्षिणपश्चिम Asia in historic times.
Until the late Pleistocene, about 10,000 years ago, the lion थी the सबसे widespread विशाल land mammal after humans.
They were मिला in most of Africa, across Eurasia इससे western Europe to India, and in the Americas इससे the Yukon to Peru.
The lion is a vulnerable species, having seen a major population decline of 30–50 % over the past two decades in its African दायरा.
Lion populations are untenable outside designated reserves और national parks.
Although the कारण of the मनाही is नहीं fully समझा, habitat loss और conflicts with humans are currently the greatest causes of concern.
Within Africa, the वेस्ट African lion population is particularly endangered.
Lions live for 10–14 years in the जंगली, while in captivity they can live longer than 20 years.
In the wild, males seldom live longer than 10 years, as injuries sustained from continual fighting with rival males greatly reduce their longevity.
वे typically inhabit savanna and grassland, although they may take to bush and वन.
Lions are unusually social compared to other cats.
a pride of शेर consists of सम्बन्धित females and offspring and a small number of adult males.
Groups of female lions typically हंट together, preying mostly on विशाल ungulates.
शेर are apex and keystone predators, हालांकि they scavenge as opportunity allows.
While lions do not typically हंट humans, some have been known to do so.
Sleeping mainly during the day, lions are primarily nocturnal, हालांकि bordering on crepuscular in nature.
Highly distinctive, the male lion is easily recognised by its mane, and its face is एक of the most widely recognised animal symbols in human संस्कृति.
depictions have existed from the अपर Paleolithic period, with carvings and paintings from the Lascaux and Chauvet गुफाएं, through virtually सब ancient और medieval cultures where they once occurred.
It has महरूम extensively चित्रित in sculptures, in paintings, on national flags, and in contemporary films and literature.
Lions have been kept in menageries since the समय of the Roman Empire, और have been a key species sought for प्रदर्शनी in zoos over the world since the late 18th century.
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding programs for the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
In the इतिहास of वीडियो games, the सातवाँ generation of consoles is the previous generation, and includes consoles released चूंकि late by Nintendo, Microsoft, and Sony.
For घर consoles, the seventh generation began on 22 November 2005 with the रिलीज of Xbox 360 and continued with the release of प्लेस्टेशन 3 on 11 November 2006, and Wii on 19 नवम्बर 2006.
Each new console introduced a new type of breakthrough in technology.
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions, the प्लेस्टेशन 3 offered, in addition to FHD गेमिंग, HD movie playback via a built-in 3D Blu-ray Disc खिलाड़ी, and the वी focused on integrating controllers साथ गति sensors as well as joysticks.
Joining Nintendo in the motion market, Sony released the PlayStation Move in September 2010.
The PlayStation मूव features motion sensing gaming, similar to that of the Wii.
microsoft also joined सोनी and Nintendo, साथ its Kinect.
Unlike the other two systems ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ), kinect does नहीं use any controllers of any sort और makes the users the `` नियंत्रक. ''
Having sold 8 million units in its first 60 days on the market, Kinect has claimed the Guinness World Record of being the `` fastest selling उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स यंत्र ''.
जबकि the Xbox 360 offers wired controllers as a standalone product, all PlayStation 3 controllers can be used in wired and wireless configurations.
starting with handheld consoles, the seventh generation began on 21 November 2004 with the North American introduction of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar '', alongside निन्टेंडो 's मौजूदा Game Boy Advance और gamecube consoles.
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) features a touch screen and built-in microphone, and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the revised version of the NDS, the DSi, features two built in cameras, the ability to download खेल from the DSi store, and a web ब्राउजर.
The PlayStation पोर्टेबल, or PSP, released later the same साल on 12 December 2004, followed a different pattern.
It became the first handheld video game console to उपयोग an optical disc format, सार्वभौमिक Media Disc ( UMD ), as its primary storage media.
Sony also दिया the psp robust multi-media capability, connectivity with the PlayStation 3 and other PSPs, और Internet कनेक्टिविटी.
The Nintendo DS likewise has connectivity to the internet through the Nintendo wi-fi Connection और Nintendo DS Browser, as well as wireless connectivity to अन्य DS प्रणालियों and वी consoles.
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles, PlayStation Portable बिक्री have consistently lagged पीछे those of the Nintendo DS ; nevertheless, the प्लेस्टेशन Portable रै the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system.
Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely दिल Club Band ( प्रायः shortened to Sgt. Pepper ) is the eighth studio album by अंग्रेज़ी rock बैंड the Beatles.
Released in जून 1967, the album included गीतों such as `` साथ a Little Help from my Friends ``, `` Lucy in the आसमान with Diamonds ``, and `` A Day in the Life ``.
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ), Sgt. Pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of the time और incorporated balladry, psychedelic, म्यूज़िक hall, और symphonic प्रभाव.
During the Sgt. Pepper sessions, the group improved upon the quality of their music 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques.
Producer George Martin 's अभिनव approach included the use of an orchestra.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by English पॉप artists Peter Blake and jann Haworth, was inspired by a स्केच by Paul McCartney that depicted the band पोज़ in front of a collage of some of their पसंदीदा celebrities.
Sgt. pepper was a worldwide critical and commercial success, बिता 27 weeks at the top of the UK Album Chart and 15 weeks at number एक on the US Billboard 200.
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style, the album थी critically acclaimed upon release and won four Grammy Awards in 1968.
With an estimated 32 million copies sold, it is one of the world 's बेहतरीन selling albums.
Sgt. Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential and famous rock album कभी, और has been नामित the greatest album of all time by both सब Time Top 1000 Albums और Rolling Stone.
The temporal lobe is a region of the दिमागी cortex that is located beneath the lateral फिशर on both cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain.
The temporal lobes are शामिल in the retention of विज़ुअल memories, processing sensory input, comprehending language, storing new memories, emotion, and deriving meaning.
The human lungs हैं the organs of respiration in इंसानो.
इंसानो have two फेफड़े, a right फेफड़ों and a left lung.
The right फेफड़ों consists of three lobes while the left lung is slightly smaller consisting of तभी two lobes ( the left फेफड़ों has a `` cardiac notch '' allowing space लिये the heart भीतर the छाती ).
Together, the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli, having a total surface area of about ( ) in adults — roughly the वही area as one पक्ष of a टेनिस अदालत.
Furthermore, if all of the capillaries that surround the alveoli were unwound and laid end to end, they would extend for about.
Each फेफड़ों weighs, therefore making the entire organ about.
Human lungs
The trachea divides into two bronchi ( one for each side ) at the स्तर of T4.
This junction is also known as the carina.
The conducting zone contains the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar ducts, and the alveoli.
the conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) हैं made up of एयरवेज़.
the conducting zone has no गैस exchange with the blood, and is reinforced साथ cartilage in order to hold open the airways.
The conducting zone warms the एयर to and humidifies the air.
It also cleanses the air by removing particles via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways.
The lungs are surrounded by the rib cage.
The respiratory zone is the site of gas एक्सचेंज with रक्त.
The sympathetic nervous system via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the beta receptors कल्याणकारी bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic बेचैन system via acetylcholine, which acts on the m-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar चिकना मांसपेशी.
इस action is related, although considered distinct from bronchoconstriction.
अनेक अन्य non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli, including carbon dioxide and ऑक्सीजन, are भी involved in the regulation process.
The pleural cavity is the potential space between the parietal pleura, lining the inner वॉल of the thoracic cage, and the visceral pleura lining the lungs.
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar tissue साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles.
However, it often includes any form of lung tissue, भी including bronchioles, bronchi, blood vessels और lung interstitium.
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila मिश्रित with Cointreau or similar orange -flavoured liqueur और lime or lemon juice, often served with salt on the glass rim.
It is the most common tequila-based cocktail in the United States.
the drink is परोसा shaken with ice ( on the rocks ), blended साथ ice ( frozen मार्गरिटा ), or बगैर बर्फ ( straight up ).
दो bottles of रेड Burgundy वाइन from Gevrey-Chambertin, côtes de Nuits
बरगंडी is a dark रेड color associated with the Burgundy wine of the same name, which in turn is नामित after the बरगंडी region of France.
The color burgundy is similar to other shades of dark red ऐसे as maroon.
When referring to the color, `` burgundy '' is usually not capitalized.
the first recorded use of `` burgundy '' as a color name in English was in 1881.
Grave of an अनजान अंग्रेजों soldier, killed in 1943 during the Battle of Leros.
क्युकी his identity is unknown, he is missing in action.
संगीन of an unknown American soldier in Oise-Aisne Cemetery.
Killed in 1917
Grave of an अनजान paratrooper, killed in the Battle of Arnhem, 1944.
photographed in April 1945
Graves of 11 अनजान British soldiers killed during संसार War ii, in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of unknown Italian soldiers killed during World War II, in a rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of unknown French soldiers मारे during World War One.
Each concrete cross has a metal प्लैक bearing the शब्द `` inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli battlefield, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified French soldiers who died in 1915
Graves of unknown Eritrean Ascaris killed in 1941 दौरान the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty श्रेणी assigned under the Status of Missing to armed services personnel जो हैं reported missing during active service.
They may have been मारे, wounded, become a prisoner of war, or deserted.
If मृतक, neither उनके remains nor grave can be positively identified.
Becoming MIA has been an occupational risk for service personnel for as long as there has been warfare.
कक्ष of Commerce Building in बीच.
This building is the original jail, built along with the Historic courthouse.
Both बैठना on the Town Square.
The Rio Theater in Center
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora Street in बीच is located next to the शहर section.
First Christian Church at 124 Cora गली in Center is one of the oldest congregations in the community.
Center is a city in Shelby County, Texas, United States.
The population was 5,193 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is the county seat of Shelby County.
It is named for its location निकट the center of शेल्बी काउंटी, not for its location in Texas as it is स्तिथ near the louisiana किनारा.
तीव्र red-eye effect in blue eyes साथ dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common appearance of red pupils in color छायाचित्र of eyes.
It occurs when using a photographic flash very close to the camera लेंस ( as with most कॉम्पैक्ट cameras ), in ambient कम light.
The effect appears in the eyes of humans and पशु that have tapetum lucidum.
नाट्य followspot ऑपरेटर, positioned nearly coincidentally साथ a very bright light और somewhat दूर from the actors, occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage.
The effect is नहीं visible to the बाकी of the audience because it is reliant on the very small angle between the followspot operator and the light.
The विश्वविद्यालयों of California, Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC Santa बारबरा or UCSB ) is a public शोध university and one of the टेन general campuses of the University of California system.
the main campus is located on a साईट in Goleta, California, संयुक्त States, from सांता Barbara and उत्तरपश्चिम of Los Angeles.
Tracing its जड़ें back to 1891 as an independent शिक्षक ' college, UCSB joined the University of California system in 1944 और is the third-oldest general-education कैम्पस in the प्रणाली.
UCSB is एक of America 's पब्लिक Ivy universities, which recognizes top public research universities in the United States.
The university is a व्यापक doctoral university और is organized into five colleges and schools offering 87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees.
the campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment with 18,977 undergraduate और 2,950 graduate students.
in 2012, UCSB was ranked 41st among `` National Universities '' and 10th among public विश्वविद्यालयों by U.S. न्यूज & World Report.
The university was also ranked 35th worldwide by the टाइम्स Higher Education World University Rankings and 34th worldwide ( 6th worldwide for engineering ) by the Academic Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` बहुत high कार्यकलाप '' research university and खर्च $ 191.2 लाख on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year, 97th-largest in the संयुक्त States.
UCSB houses twelve national research centers, including the renowned Kavli संस्थान for Theoretical Physics.
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, एक Fields Medalist, 29 सदस्यों of the National अकादमी of Sciences, 27 members of the नेशनल Academy of Engineering, और 31 members of the American अकादमी of Arts and Sciences.
UCSB was the No. 3 host on the ARPAnet and was elected to the Association of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों in 1995.
The UC सांता Barbara Gauchos compete in the NCAA Division I बिग West सम्मेलन.
The Gauchos have जीती NCAA national championships in मेन 's soccer और men 's water पोलो.
Saint Joseph साथ the Infant यीशु by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day, March 19, the Feast of st. Joseph is in Western Christianity the principal feast दिन of Saint Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
he is also the step-father of Jesus of Nazareth /jesus Christ.
It रै the rank of a solemnity in the Roman Catholic Church ; catholics who follow the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast.
Previous to 1962 it was celebrated as a feast of the rank of double of the first class.
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the Anglican Communion, and a feast or festival in the Lutheran Church.
Saint Joseph 's दिन is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as लिये Canada, व्यक्तियों named Joseph, Josephine, etc., for धार्मिक institutes, schools and parishes bearing his name, and for बढ़ई.
It is also Father 's Day in some Catholic countries, mainly Spain, Portugal, and Italy.
March 19 was dedicated to Saint Joseph in several Western calendars by the tenth सदी, and this custom was established in Rome by 1479.
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to the संपूर्ण Roman Rite by his Apostolic Constitution quo primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, एपिस्कोपल Conferences may, if they wish, transfer it to a date outside Lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was celebrated in सम्मान of St. Joseph as Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary और संरक्षक of the Universal Church, the latter title having been given to उसे by Pope Pius IX.
originally celebrated on the third Sunday बाद ईस्टर साथ an octave, बाद divino afflatu of St. Pius X ( see सुधार of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius x ), it was moved to the preceding Wednesday.
the feast थी also retitled the Solemnity of संत जोसेफ.
This celebration and इसके accompanying octave थी abolished दौरान the modernisation और simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955.
it is still maintained by catholics who follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals.
As the परंपरागत अवकाश of the Apostles ss. Philip and जेम्स, May 1, had धुंधली from the मेमोरी of most Catholics by the mid-twentieth century, that of Joseph the Worker was निर्मित in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries.
The feast of Ss. Philip and James, which था been celebrated on that date since the sixth century, थी स्थानांतरित इससे इसके traditional place.
In the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, which at one time occupied the highest possible rank in the Church पंचांग, was reduced to an optional Memorial, the न्यूनतम rank for a saint 's day.
The Eastern परंपरागत Church मनाता Saint Joseph on the Sunday after Christmas.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, रिकार्ड producer, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records कार्यपालिका Tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and शाखित four लगातार number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 और success with hit records भाव ( 1991 ), Music बक्सा ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling अधिनियम.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with Boyz II Men, spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in u.S. चार्ट इतिहास.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate from her r & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which time Carey had separated इससे Mottola.
Carey बाएँ Columbia in 2000, और signed a record-breaking $ 100 million recording अनुबंध with Virgin Records.
पहले the release of her पहला feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical और emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the फिल्मी 's ग़रीब reception, she was bought out of उसके recording contract लिये $ 50 million, which led to a decline in उसके career.
She हस्ताक्षरित a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, and after an unsuccessful काल, returned to the top of music charts साथ the Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We belong Together `` became her सबसे successful single of the 2000s, and थी later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard.
कैरी once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; वो was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival, and Black रील and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two दशकों, Carey रै बेची more than 200 million records worldwide, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling recording कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार Music Awards.
Carey was भी named the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of America, she is the third best-selling मादा कलाकार in the संयुक्त राज्य, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained उसके eighteenth number one single in the United राज्य, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, Carey was क्रमित second on VH1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम महिलाओं in Music ''.
aside इससे उसके commercial accomplishments, Carey has won five Grammy Awards, 17 World Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World रिकॉर्ड, she is famed for her five-octave vocal दायरा, power, melismatic स्टाइल and हस्ताक्षर use of the सीटी register.
A bumblebee is any member of the bee genus Bombus, in the परिवार apidae.
There are over 250 known species, existing primarily in the Northern Hemisphere although वे also occur in South America.
They have been introduced to नई Zealand and the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई state of Tasmania.
Bumblebees are सोशल insects that are characterised by ब्लैक and yellow body hairs, often in bands.
However, some प्रजाति have orange or red on their bodies, or may be entirely black.
Another स्पष्ट ( लकिन not unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the बाल ( long, branched setae ), पुकारा pile, कि covers उनके entire body, बनाना them appear and feel फजी.
They हैं बेहतरीन distinguished from similarly large, फजी मधुमक्खियों by the form of the मादा हिन्द लेग, which is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that is bare, but घिरी by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees, the hind leg is completely hairy, और pollen grains are wedged into the hairs for transport ).
Like their relatives the मधु मधुमक्खियों, bumblebees feed on nectar and gather पराग to feed their यंग.
a man openly carrying a handgun in a Burger किंग in त्रिभुज, Colorado.
In the संयुक्त States, खोलें carry is shorthand terminology for `` openly carrying a firearm in public '', as distinguished from concealed carry, where firearms can नहीं be seen by the casual observer.
The practice of open carry, जहाँ gun owners openly carry firearms while they go about their daily business, has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent years.
इस has been marked by a number of व्यवस्थित events intended to increase the visibility of खोलें carry और public awareness about the practice.
Proponents of open carry point to history and statistics, noting that criminals usually छिपाते their हथियार.
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org, georgiacarry.org and some participants of the Free State Project, open carry has seen a revival in recent years, but it is नहीं yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend.
The gun rights community has महरूम mixed in its जवाब.
Alan gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support, जबकि special-interest groups such as the aforementioned OpenCarry.org and georgiacarry.org, and certain national groups such as the Gun स्वामी of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice.
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups such as the Brady Campaign और the Coalition to Stop गन Violence.
the Cattenom Nuclear Power Plant in France.
France produces around three quarters of its electricity by nuclear power.
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in Germany.
Chancellor Angela मार्केल 's coalition announced on may 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following जापानी 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
फिलहाल, 68 reactors are अंतर्गत construction in 15 countries.
Nuclear power stations operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an औसत of about 10 nuclear reactors यहूद expected to become operational per year, although according to the World नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear शक्ति.
As of जून 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Color motion picture film refers दोनो to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a motion चित्र कैमरा, and to समाप्त motion picture film, तैयार for use in a projector, which bears images in color.
The first color cinematography थी by अर्थात् of additive color systems such as the एक patented in England by Edward रेमंड Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902.
A simplified additive system was developed by George अल्बर्ट Smith और successfully commercialized in 1909 as kinemacolor.
These जल्दी systems used black-and-white film to photograph and प्रोजेक्ट two or more component images through different रंग filters.
Still from footage recorded by एडवर्ड Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology, there are two distinct प्रक्रियाओं : eastman Color ऋणात्मक 2 chemistry ( camera negative stocks, duplicating interpositive and internegative स्टॉक्स ) and eastman रंग Positive 2 रसायन ( positive prints for direct projection ), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Fuji 's products are संगत साथ ecn-2 and ECP-2.
Ashanti shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, record निर्माता, and actress.
ashanti is most प्रसिद्ध for her eponymous debut album, जिससे featured the hit song `` Foolish ``, and sold over 503,000 copies in its पहला week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
the album set a Soundscan record as the biggest खोलने week sales for a new female कलाकार, outselling debuts by एलिसिया Keys and Lauryn Hill.
In the same week, she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two स्थान on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '', और `` What 's Luv ? ``
( with मोटे जो ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs, `` Foolish, '' `` What 's Luv ? '' and `` सदा on Time ``, on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 चार्ट in the वही week, being the first स्त्री to accomplish this feat और being second only to the बीटल्स.
In 2003, the self-titled debut album won Ashanti her first Grammy पुरस्कार लिये Best समकालीन R & b album.
as of April 1st 2013, Ashanti has sold over 27.7 million records विश्वव्यापी.
Ashanti ended the दशक ( 2000–09 ) as the third शीर्ष new R & B artist पीछे Alicia Keys and बेयोंस.
She भी ended the decade at number 38 on the Top Artist of the Decade list.
She is currently on the list of The Twenty Best Selling म्यूज़िक singles चूंकि 1990 लिये her single Foolish for selling 7.2 million copies to-date.
Ashanti रै an estimated net worth of $ 40 million dollars [ USD ].
Ashanti wrote and sang पृष्ठभूमि on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) ``, which पहुँचे number one on Billboard hot 100, which was also in the top 10 chart at the same time as `` Foolish '', `` Always on Time '' ( साथ Ja Rule ), and `` What 's luv '' ( with Fat जो ).
बाद that साल, she was acclaimed as the `` Princess of hip-hop & R & b '' by उसके label and capped off उसके successful debut by winning eight बिलबोर्ड awards और two American Music Awards.
भीतर seven सालो of Ashanti 's career, she has scored 16 शीर्ष 40 हिट्स on the hot 100.
Ashanti रै endorsed numerous products including Gap, Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans.
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet Jackson, Prince, मैडोना, तुपाक Shakur, Mary J. Blige, Ella Fitzgerald, नशीले Robinson, Donna Summer, और Blue Magic as her musical influences.
Praised as a gifted songwriter by उसके peers and आलोचकों alike, Ashanti has written/co-written the बल्क of all उसके म्यूज़िक.
She is currently working on her own प्रकाशन company हकदार Written Entertainment.
She released her fourth स्टुडियो album entitled The Declaration on June 3, 2008 and is फिलहाल in the studio working on उसके fifth.
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other female गायकों लिये the `` Stand up to Cancer '' सजीव television खास which helped raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research.
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or aaf ) was the military विमानन भुजा of the United राज्य of America during और immediately after World War II, and the direct predecessor of the United States Air Force.
The AAF was a component of the संयुक्त States Army, which in 1942 थी divided functionally by executive order into three autonomous forces : the फौज मैदान Forces, the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ), and the AAF.
Each of these forces had a commanding general who reported directly to the Chief of Staff of the United States फौज.
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly वितरित among the फौज Air corps, General मुख्यालय Air Force, और मैदान forces corps area commanders, और यूँ became the first air संगठन of the U.S. Army to कंट्रोल its own installations and support personnel.
In practice, the AAF was virtually autonomous inside the Army.
The शिखर size of the AAF was over 2.4 million मेन and women in service and nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, and 783 domestic bases in दिसम्बर 1943.
by VE Day it था 1.25 million men stationed overseas and operated from more than 1,600 airfields worldwide.
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in जून 1941 to provide the air arm a greater स्वायत्तता in which to विस्तार अधिक efficiently, and to provide a structure for the additional command echelons जरूरी by a vastly increased force.
Although other nations already had separate air forces स्वतंत्र of the फौज or navy ( such as the British royal Air Force and the German Luftwaffe ), the aaf remained a part of the United राज्य फौज जबतक the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947.
However, in its expansion and conduct of the war, the AAF became more than just an arm of the greater organization.
By the end of World War II the AAF had become virtually an स्वतंत्र service.
By विनियमन and executive order, the AAF was a subordinate agency of the युद्ध Department tasked तभी with आयोजन, training, and equipping कॉम्बैट units, सीमित in जिम्मेदारी to the continental संयुक्त States, as were the Army मैदान Forces and the फौज सेवा Forces.
in reality, मुख्यालय AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the एयर war in every part of the world, determining air policy और issuing orders without transmitting उन्हें through the Chief of Staff.
This `` कंट्रास्ट between theory and fact is... आधारभूत to an understanding of the AAF. ''
the स्वतंत्रता of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of information law that allows for the full or partial disclosure of previously unreleased information and documents controlled by the United States सरकारी.
The Act defines एजेंसी records subject to disclosure, outlines mandatory प्रकटीकरण प्रक्रियाओं and grants nine exemptions to the statute.
it थी originally signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson, despite his misgivings, on July 4, 1966 as and went into effect the following year.
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act should not be उलझन with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the व्यक्तिगत states.
अनेक of those state acts may be similar but नहीं identical to the federal act.
The European Union ( eu ) is an economic और political union of 27 सदस्य states कि are located primarily in Europe.
The EU operates through a system of supranational स्वतंत्र संस्थानों and intergovernmental negotiated निर्णय by the member राज्य.
Institutions of the EU include the European आयोग, the Council of the European Union, the यूरोपीय Council, the Court of इंसाफ of the European Union, the European Central Bank, the Court of Auditors, and the यूरोपीय Parliament.
The European पार्लियामेंट is elected every five सालो by EU citizens.
The EU 's de facto capital is ब्रसेल्स.
The EU traces its origins from the European Coal and Steel जातियाँ ( ECSC ) and the European Economic जातियाँ ( eec ), formed by the Inner Six countries in 1951 and 1958 क्रमशः.
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of नई member states और in power by the addition of policy areas to its remit.
the Maastricht Treaty स्थापित the European Union under इसके current name in 1993.
The नवीनतम major amendment to the constitutional basis of the eu, the Treaty of Lisbon, came into force in 2009.
the EU has developed a single market through a standardised system of laws that apply in all member states.
Within the Schengen Area ( which includes 22 eu and 4 non-EU states ) पासपोर्ट controls have been abolished.
eu policies aim to ensure the free movement of लोगों, goods, services, and capital, enact legislation in justice and home affairs, and maintain आम policies on व्यापार, agriculture, fisheries और क्षेत्रीय development.
A मौद्रिक संघ, the eurozone, was स्थापित in 1999 and is composed of 17 member राज्य.
Through the Common Foreign and Security Policy the EU has developed a भूमिका in external relations and defence.
Permanent राजनयिक missions have महरूम स्थापित around the world.
The eu is represented at the United राष्ट्र, the WTO, the g8 and the G-20.
साथ a संयुक्त population of over 500 million inhabitants, or 7.3 % of the world population, the EU, in 2012, उत्पन्न a नाममात्र gross domestic product ( GDP ) of 16.584 trillion US dollars, representing approximately 20 % of the global GDP जब measured in terms of purchasing power parity, and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world.
The EU was the प्राप्तकर्ता of the 2012 Nobel Peace पुरस्कार.
The Wales national रग्बी लीग team represent वेल्स in अंतरराष्ट्रीय rugby league फ़ुटबॉल matches.
Currently the team is seventh in the RLIF संसार Rankings.
The team were run अंतर्गत the auspices of the Rugby Football League, but an independent body, वेल्स Rugby League, now runs the टोली from Cardiff.
a total of three वेल्श players have been entered into the Rugby लीग Hall of Fame.
Similar to many other Welsh national sporting टीमों, Wales strip has been primarily red for many years, सहित now.
However in their last संसार Cup अभियान in 2000 they did पहनें a shirt featuring the Welsh flag, adding a touch of green and white.
The team is known as `` The Dragons '' और so the teams logo on the कमीज़ is a red dragon.
The team date वापस to 1907, making them the third oldest national side after इंग्लैण्ड और New Zealand.
और it थी a touring New Zealand side that वेल्स first निभाई against in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly निभाई England, चूंकि 1935 France, as well as welcomed the touring Australia and नई Zealand टीमों, although they rarely toured themselves, नहीं playing a मैच in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere जबतक 1975.
लिये twenty-six years Wales competed against their two biggest rivals, England and France, in the European Nations Cup, winning the trophy four times.
वेल्स have भी competed in the World Cup on three अवसरों, the first time होने in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 they had their सबसे successful tournaments to date, surprisingly making the Semi-Finals on both अवसरों before being beaten by इंग्लैण्ड and Australia respectively.
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup, being the second highest ranked side not to do so, having lost to Scotland on points difference over two matches.
In 2008 Australian जॉन डिक्सन became the new head coach and appointed Lee briers as कप्तान, having played for Wales since 1998.
In recent seasons Wales have taken massive strides under former player Iestyn Harris who has coached Wales to back to back European Cup सफलताओं, which culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011.
cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the दिल muscle ) for any reason, usually leading to heart failure ; आम symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and परिधीय edema ( swelling of the legs ).
People with cardiomyopathy हैं often at risk of dangerous forms of irregular heart ताल and sudden cardiac मौत.
The most common form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
Fuck in its शाब्दिक meaning refers to the अधिनियम of sexual intercourse.
it is an English word that is प्रायः used as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The origin of the शब्द is obscure.
It is usually considered to be first attested to around 1475, लकिन it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker और fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an क्रियाविशेषण.
There are अनेक common phrases which make उपयोग of the word, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : this आलेख adopts the U.S. Department of Transportation 's परिभाषा of a passenger vehicle, to mean a car or truck, used for passengers, excluding buses and trains.
The United States is home to the largest passenger गाडी market of any country in the world.
Overall, वहीँ were an estimated 254.4 million registered passenger वाहनों in the United राज्य according to a 2007 DOT study.
This क्रमांक, along with the औसत age of vehicles, has increased steadily since 1960, indicating a growing number of vehicles per capita.
the Chinese car मार्केट, however, is poised to जल्द exceed the United States ; by the end of 2012, there were over 240 million cars on the road in China.
The United States is also home to three विशाल vehicle manufacturers : सामान्य मोटर्स, घाट Motor कम्पनी and Chrysler, which have historically been referred to as the `` Big Three. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the top three ; लकिन is number five, behind Toyota और होंडा.
the motor car has clearly become an अभिन्न part of American life, with vehicles outnumbering licensed drivers.
Clinical प्रयोगशाला in a Hospital setting showing several automated analysers.
A चिकित्सा प्रयोगशाला or नैदानिक laboratory is a प्रयोगशाला where परीक्षण are किया on नैदानिक नमूनों in order to get information about the health of a patient as pertaining to the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of बीमारी.
in poker, खिलाड़ी construct hands of five cards according to predetermined rules, which vary according to which variant of poker is being played.
ये हैंड्स are compared using a हाथ ranking system that is standard across all variants of poker, the खिलाड़ी with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker.
In कुछ variants, the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie.
These hand rankings are also used in some other कार्ड games, and in poker dice.
The ranking of a particular hand is increased by including multiple cards of the वही card rank, by सब five cards being इससे the same सूट, or by all five cards होने of consecutive rank.
The relative ranking of the various hand categories is based on the probability of होने randomly dealt such a हाथ from a well- shuffled deck.
Bruce रान्डेल Hornsby ( born November 23, 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a सिंगर, pianist, synthesizer, accordion, and dulcimer player, and songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of उसके live performances, Hornsby draws frequently from classical, jazz, bluegrass, लोक, motown, gospel, rock, blues, and jam band musical traditions with his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within.
hornsby 's रिकार्डिंग have been recognised on a number of occasions with industry awards, सहित the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 with Bruce Hornsby और the Range, the Best Bluegrass रिकॉर्डिंग Grammy in 1990, and the Best पॉप Instrumental Grammy in 1993.
Hornsby रै also achieved recognition for his सोलो एल्बम and performances, his touring band Bruce hornsby and the noisemakers, his ब्लूग्रास प्रोजेक्ट with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- और guest-musician.
He भी collaborated with Grateful Dead and थी a सदस्य of the band from September 1990 to March 1992, playing at over एक hundred shows during that period.
Sugarcane plantation in rural Cuba
कृषि in Cuba has निभाई an important part in the economy for several hundred years.
Agriculture contributes less than 10 प्रतिशत to the सकल domestic product ( जीडीपी ), लकिन it employs roughly 20 percent of the working population.
About 30 प्रतिशत of the country 's जमीन is used for crop cultivation.
The inefficient agricultural industry in Cuba has led to the need to import large amounts of foods.
Cuba अभी imports about 80 % of the food it rations to the पब्लिक.
the rationing program accounts for about a third of the food energy the औसत Cuban consumes.
Overall, however, Cuba is निर्भर on imports for तभी 16 % of its food.
right
Mega Millions ( initially called the Big Game Mega Millions as the successor of The Big Game ) is an अमरीकी multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game.
The first ( The Big खेल ) Mega Millions drawing was in 2002 ( see below ).
the minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 equal वार्षिक installments ( unless the cash विकल्प is chosen ) ; usually, the jackpot increases जब there is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no jackpot winner for the $ 12,000,000 December 18, 2012 आरेखण, the जैकपॉट remained at $ 12,000,000 लिये the drawing to be आयोजित on December 21.
( See below for information on how the game 's jackpot is funded. )
Reflecting common practice among अमरीकी lotteries, the jackpot is advertised as a नाममात्र value of annual installments.
A नकदी value option ( the usual चुनाव ), when chosen by a jackpot winner ( see below ), pays the approximate उपस्थित value of the installments.
Mega Millions फिलहाल uses a 5/56 ( श्वेत balls ) plus 1/46 ( the Mega बॉल ) double मेट्रिक्स to select its winning numbers.
Each game लागत $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the exception ), there is an option, called Megaplier ( such games are $ 2 each ) where non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
The Megaplier थी made available to all Mega Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a टेक्सास -only option.
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays and Fridays, including holidays.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of its 12 original lotteries and the drawings हैं held at WSB-TV in अटलांटा, Georgia.
पर्यवेक्षित by the Georgia Lottery.
The largest jackpot in आचमन Millions, as well as in American lottery history, was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a cash option of $ 474,000,000 ) for the कूच 30, 2012 drawing in which there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois, Kansas, and मेरीलैंड.
All three tickets had been claimed as of April 18, साथ each नियत of winners choosing the cash option.
is a जापानी manga series created by writer Tsugumi Ohba and manga artist Takeshi Obata.
The main character is Light Yagami, a high school छात्र who discovers a supernatural कोपी, the `` Death नोट '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk.
The Death Note grants its उपयोक्ता the ability to kill anyone whose name and face they know, by writing the name in the notebook while picturing उनके फेस.
the series centers around लाइट 's attempt to create and rule a world `` cleansed of दुष्ट '' as `` परमेश्वर '' using the notebook, and the प्रयत्न of a detective known as L to stop him.
Death नोट was first serialized in 108 chapters by shueisha in the जापानी manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from दिसम्बर 2003 to May 2006.
the series was also published in tankōbon format in Japan starting in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of तेरह volumes.
The anime श्रेणी aired in Japan इससे October 3, 2006, to June 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 episodes, the दुश्मनी थी developed by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki.
A light novel आधारित on the series, written by nisio Isin, was released in Japan.
Additionally, various video games have महरूम published by कोनामी for Nintendo ds.
The series was adapted into live-action films released in Japan on June 17, 2006, November 3, 2006, and फ़रवरी 2, 2008.
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in North America and has published सब the twelve volumes इससे the series, a 13th volume which serves as a `` reader 's guide '', as well as the light novels.
the episodes from the anime first appeared in North America as downloadable by IGN.
Viz बाद licensed the दुश्मनी series and it aired on Bionix in Canada और on Cartoon संजाल in the United States.
the live-action films briefly played in certain North अमरीकी theaters चूंकि 2008.
However, none of the video games have thus far been published in उत्तर अमेरिका or Europe.
Death नोट is one of Weekly Shōnen jumps best-selling manga series of all time, साथ sales over 26.5 million copies.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), also known as All Hallows ' Eve, is a yearly celebration observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of सब Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
according to many scholars, All hallows ' Eve is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by western European harvest festivals, और festivals of the मुर्दे साथ possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain और has solely Christian roots.
Typical त्यौहार Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( भी known as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
New यॉर्क City taxicabs during Midtown rush घंटा in Manhattan
the taxicabs of New York City, with their distinctive yellow paint, are a widely recognized icon of the city.
taxicabs हैं operated by private companies और licensed by the नई York City टैक्सी and Limousine Commission ( TLC ).
It भी oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles, सहित `` black गाड़ियाँ '', commuter vans and ambulettes.
`` Medallion taxis, '' the familiar yellow cabs, are the only vehicles in the city permitted to pick up passengers in response to a street hail.
Schematic cross section of भाग of leaf, xylem shown as red circles at figure 8.
जाइलम is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular plants ( फ्लोएम is the other ).
The word xylem is derived इससे the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is लकडी, though it is found throughout the संयंत्र.
इसके मौलिक function is to transport water, but it भी transports some nutrients through the plant.
U.S. women suffragists demonstrating for the right to vote, February 1913.
Women 's suffrage also known as woman suffrage is the right of women to vote and to चलाएं लिये दफ्तर.
Limited voting rights were gained by महिलाओं in Sweden, Finland and कुछ western U.S. states in the लेट 19th century.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय organizations were formed to निर्देशांक efforts, especially the International Council of महिलाओं ( 1888 ) and the International Woman suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
In 1893, New जीलैंड, तब a self-governing अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश, granted adult women the right to vote and the self-governing British colony of South Australia did the same in 1895, but also permitted women to run लिये office.
Australia federated in 1901, and women acquired the right to vote and stand in federal elections from 1902, though uneven restrictions on aboriginal women voting in नेशनल elections were not completely removed until 1962.
the first European country to introduce women 's suffrage थी the Grand Duchy of Finland, then part of the रूसी Empire, which also produced the world 's पहला female members of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary elections.
नार्वे followed, granting पूरा women 's suffrage in 1913.
In most Western देशों, women 's suffrage आए after World I युद्ध I i, with some महत्वपूर्ण late adopters होने France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971.
Women 's suffrage रै generally been recognized after political campaigns to obtain it were waged.
In many countries it was granted पहले सार्वभौमिक suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right अंतर्गत the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, adopted by the संयुक्त Nations in 1979.
the Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a gothic suspense novel, the author 's first published किताब.
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian मान्यताओं distinct from mainstream Christianity.Sources for descriptors : • millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : The organization reports worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents शामिल in इंजीलवाद, convention उपस्थिति of over 12 लाख, और annual Memorial उपस्थिति of over 19 लाख.
They हैं directed by the Governing Body of Jehovah 's Witnesses, a group of बड़ो in Brooklyn, New यॉर्क, that establishes सब doctrines.
यहोवा 's Witnesses ' beliefs are based on उनके interpretations of the Bible and they prefer to use their own translation, the New World अनुवाद of the Holy Scriptures.
वे believe that the destruction of the उपस्थित संसार system at Armageddon is imminent, and that the establishment of God 's किंगडम on earth is the only solution लिये सब problems faced by mankind.
the समूह emerged इससे the Bible Student गति —founded in the late 1870s by चार्ल्स Taze Russell with the formation of zion 's देखें मीनार Tract Society —with significant organizational और doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford.
The name Jehovah 's witnesses, based on Isaiah 43:10–12, थी adopted in 1931 to distinguish themselves from other बाइबल Student समूह and symbolize a break with the legacy of Russell 's traditions.
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known for उनके door-to-door उपदेश, distributing literature ऐसे as The Watchtower and Awake !
, and refusing military सेवा and blood transfusions.
They consider उपयोग of the नाम Jehovah vital for proper worship.
They अस्वीकृत Trinitarianism, inherent immortality of the soul, and hellfire, which they consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
They do not observe Christmas, Easter, birthdays, or अन्य छुट्टियाँ and कस्टम they consider to have pagan origins असंगत with Christianity.
adherents commonly refer to their body of beliefs as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
They consider secular society to be morally corrupt and under the influence of शैतानी, and most limit उनके social interaction with non-Witnesses.
Congregational अनुशासनात्मक actions include disfellowshipping, उनके पद लिये formal expulsion and shunning.
Baptized individuals who formally leave are considered disassociated and are also shunned.
Disfellowshipped and disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed repentant.
The religion 's position regarding conscientious objection to military service and refusal to salute नेशनल flags has brought it into conflict with some सरकारें.
Consequently, Jehovah 's Witnesses have been persecuted and their activities are बैन or restricted in some देशों.
Persistent legal चुनौतियां by Jehovah 's Witnesses have influenced legislation related to civil rights in several देशों.
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian romantic Drama film directed by Bernardo Bertolucci which portrays a recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young, betrothed Parisian woman.
It सितारों Marlon Brando, मरिया Schneider, और Jean-Pierre Léaud.
The film 's raw portrayal of sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to international controversy और drew विभिन्न स्तर of government censorship.
The MPAA gave the film an x दरजा upon रिलीज in the संयुक्त States.
After revisions यहूद made to the MPAA दरजा code, it was classified as an NC-17 in 1997.
MGM released a censored R-rated काटें in 1981.
the film has its NC-17 rating लिये `` some explicit यौन content. ''
Windows XP is an operating system उत्पादित by Microsoft for use on personal computers, including home and business desktops, लैपटॉप and media centers.
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24, 2001, it is the second most popular version of Windows, आधारित on installed user आधार.
The name `` XP '' is छोटी for `` eXPerience '', highlighting the enhanced user experience.
Windows XP, the successor to खिड़कियाँ 2000 and खिड़कियाँ ME, थी the first consumer-oriented operating system उत्पादित by Microsoft to be निर्मित on the खिड़कियाँ NT kernel.
Windows XP थी released worldwide for retail sale on अक्तूबर 25, 2001, and over 400 million नक़ल यहूद in use in January 2006.
It थी succeeded by Windows Vista in January 2007.
Direct OEM and खुदरा बिक्री of Windows XP ceased on जून 30, 2008.
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through उनके प्रणाली Builders ( smaller OEMs who sell समवेत computers ) कार्यक्रम until January 31, 2009.
On April 10, 2012, Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP और Office 2003 would end on April 8, 2014 and suggested that administrators begin preparing to migrate to a नए OS.
the NT -based संस्करण of Windows, which हैं प्रोग्रामित in C, C++, and assembly, हैं known for their improved stability and दक्षता over the 9x versions of microsoft Windows.
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user interface, a change microsoft promoted as more user-friendly than previous versions of Windows.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL नरक `` that plagued the past versions of Windows, improved side-by-side assembly technology in Windows xp allows side-by-side installation, registration और servicing of अनेक versions of globally shared software components in full isolation.
It is also the first version of Windows to उपयोग product activation to combat illegal copying.
During Windows XP 's development, the project was codenamed `` whistler '', बाद Whistler, British Columbia, as many Microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort.
According to web analytics आंकड़ा generated by Net अनुप्रयोग, खिड़कियाँ XP was the most widely प्रयुक्त operating प्रणाली until अगस्त 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost every month since at least नवम्बर 2007, the first month for which statistics are सरेआम available from Net Applications.
`` Por ऊना Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with music and lyrics लिखा in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively.
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase meaning `` by a head '', जिससे refers to a horse जीतना a race by the length of one head.
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track gambler who compares his addiction for horses with his attraction to women.
Alfredo Le Pera was a Brazilian इससे São Paulo, a much Italian-influenced area in Brazil, और also the जन्मस्थान of Zequinha de Abreu, composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá.
Le प्रभा and Gardel died in an airplane crash in Medellín, ( Colombia ), on जून 24, 1935.
पोर una Cabeza
the tango has since been performed by numerous tango orchestras.
Tango scenes with `` पोर una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), Schindler 's List ( 1993 ), True Lies ( 1994 ), Titanic ( 1996 ), ख़राब Santa ( uncut Version, 2003 ), All the King 's Men ( 2006 ), ग्रह 51 ( 2009 ), एपीसोड 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of South Korean drama series Sweet Spy ( 2005–08 ), the शुरूआत और समाप्ति credits of the South Korean नाटक ब्रॉडकास्ट I 'm Sorry, i Love You ( 2004 ), and the episode `` bas the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ).
In the movie Frida ( Salma हायेक, 2002 ), Gardel is heard singing it on a radio.
It is also quoted in David Del Tredici 's `` Good News !
Nilda is वापस '' ( इससे the song cycle Miz Inez sez ).
In सैंट of a Woman ( 1992 ), the टैंगो is performed by the `` The Tango Project '', जो actually appear in the dancing scene starring Al Pacino ( the रिकॉर्डिंग used is available on one of their CD albums ).
John Williams arranged a version of the piece कि appears on the album `` Cinema serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have also performed the piece together in live concerts.
In 2012 a नृत्य version was released by the समूह `` Da Carrera '' featuring the original vocal recording by Carlos Gardel.
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is one of the body 's homeostatic mechanisms for maintaining blood pressure.
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated रक्त pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease therefore causing blood दबाव to decrease ; likewise, decreased blood pressure activates the baroreflex, causing heart rate to increase thus causing an बढ़ाएँ in blood pressure.
The system relies on specialized न्यूरॉन्स, known as baroreceptors, in the aortic arch, carotid sinuses, and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem.
Subsequent changes in blood pressure हैं mediated by the autonomic nervous system.
अलिंदी natriuretic पेप्टाइड फ़ॉर्म a parallel negative feedback लूप in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system.
The Loma Prieta earthquake, also known as the भूकंप of '89 and the World Series Earthquake, was a major earthquake that struck the San फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी Area of कैलिफ़ोर्निया on October 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time.
Caused by a स्लिप along the San andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 सेकेंड और measured 6.9 on both the moment magnitude scale ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) और on the open-ended Richter Scale.
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern California, injured 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless.
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 World Series, featuring दोनो of the खाड़ी Area 's प्रमुख League बेसबॉल teams, the Oakland Athletics and the San फ्रांसिस्को Giants.
Because of game-related sports coverage, this थी the first प्रमुख earthquake in the United States to have इसके initial jolt broadcast सजीव on television.
साहूकार in the standard Staunton पैटर्न
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the सबसे numerous and in most circumstances the weakest टुकड़ा in the game of chess, historically representing infantry or, अधिक particularly, हथियारबंद peasants or pikemen.
in chess, each player begins the खेल with eight pawns, one on each square of the rank immediately in front of the अन्य टुकड़े.
( In बीजीय notation, the white pawns start on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, while black pawns start on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
Individual प्यादे are referred to by the file on which they stand.
For example, one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` ब्लैक 's b-pawn '', or less commonly ( using descriptive संकेतन ), `` श्वेत 's king 's bishop pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight साहूकार ''.
It is भी common to refer to a rook pawn, meaning any pawn on the a- or h-file, a नाईट pawn ( on the b- or g-file ), a bishop pawn ( on the c- or f-file ), a महारानी pawn ( on the d-file ), a किंग pawn ( on the e-file ), and a central साहूकार ( on either the d- or e-file ).
the military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals.
the armed forces of most developed countries have now removed policies excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( साथ strict policies on sexual उत्पीड़न ).
Nations that permit gay लोगों to serve खुलकर in the military include the 4 of the 5 members of the UN सुरक्षा Council ( United राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, France, और Russia ), the Republic of China ( ताईवान ), ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Israel, South Africa, अर्जेंटीना, and all NATO members excluding Turkey.
Hydrogen production is the परिवार of industrial methods लिये generating hydrogen.
Currently the dominant technology for direct production is steam reforming इससे hydrocarbons.
Many other methods are known including electrolysis and thermolysis.
In 2006, the United States was estimated to have a production capacity of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen.
5 million tonnes of hydrogen यहूद consumed on-site in आयल refining, and in the production of ammonia ( Haber process ) and methanol ( कटौती of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 million tonnes यहूद an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process.
हाइड्रोजन production is an estimated $ 100 अरब industry.
A basis point ( प्रायः denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '', also known as a `` beep '' ) is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point, or one भाग per ten हजार, 1/10000.
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad, literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ', and in that context is written with which looks like a percent sign ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end ( like a stylized रूप of the four zeros in the denominator, although it originates as a natural extension of the प्रतिशत ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
A basis point is defined as:
1 basis point = 1 permyriad = one one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
Basis अंक are प्रयुक्त as a convenient unit of measurement in contexts where percentage differences of कम than 1 % are discussed.
The most common example is interest दरों, where मतभेद in interest rates of कम than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent to a change of 10 basis अंक ( e.g. a 4.67 % रेट increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ).
Like percentage points, आधार points avoid the ambiguity between relative और absolute discussions about interest rates by dealing only with the absolute बदलें in numeric value of a रेट.
For example, if a report says वहीँ रै been a `` 1 % बढ़ाएँ '' from a 10 % interest rate, this could refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative, 1 % of 10 % ), or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute, 1 % plus 10 % ).
If, however, the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point increase '' from a 10 % interest रेट, then we जान कि the ब्याज rate of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate.
It is common practice in the financial industry to उपयोग basis points to denote a rate change in a वित्तीय instrument, or the difference ( spread ) between two interest rates, including the yields of fixed-income securities.
Since certain लोन and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to some index or underlying सुरक्षा, they will often be quoted as a spread over ( or अंतर्गत ) the अनुक्रमणिका.
For example, a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 basis points over LIBOR, which is commonly expressed as `` l+50bps '' or बस `` L+50 ''.
The term `` आधार point '' has its origins in trading the `` basis '' or the spread between दो interest rates.
Since the basis is usually small, these are quoted multiplied up by 10000, and hence a `` पूरा point '' गति in the `` basis '' is a basis point.
Contrast साथ pips in FX forward बाज़ार.
The relationship between percentage परिवर्तन और basis अंक can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage पाइंट change = 100 basis points, and 0.01 प्रतिशत points = 1 आधार पाइंट.
So, a बंध जिनकी yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50 आधार points ; or interest rates that have risen 1 percentage point are said to have increased by 100 basis अंक.
The British Royal Family is the group of close relatives of the monarch of the United Kingdom.
The term is also commonly applied to the same समूह of people who are the relations of the monarch in उसके or his भूमिका as sovereign of कोई of the other Commonwealth realms, thus sometimes at variance with आधिकारिक national terms लिये the family.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by birth or marriage, the House of विंडसर, since 1917, when जार्ज v changed the name of the royal house इससे Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
This निर्णय was primarily taken because Britain और her साम्राज्य were at war with Germany and given the British Royal परिवार 's strong German ancestry ; it was felt that its public image could be improved by choosing a more अंग्रेजों house name.
The new name chosen, Windsor, had absolutely no connection अन्य than as the name of the castle which was and continues to be a royal निवास.
Although in the संयुक्त Kingdom वहीँ is no strict विधिक or formal definition of जो is or is नहीं a member of the Royal Family, and different lists will include अलग people, those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ), or Her or His royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members, which usually results in the application of the term to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the विधवा consorts of previous monarchs, the children of the monarch और previous monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch और previous monarchs, और the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons.
On 30 November 1917, King जार्ज V issued अक्षर पेटेंट धमक who are members of the royal Family ; the text of the notice इससे the London Gazette is as follows:
In 1996, उसके Majesty The Queen modified ये Letters Patent, as थी evidenced by this सूचना from the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title और a style borne by members of the Royal Family to additional व्यक्तियों to be born, evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
सदस्यों and रिश्तेदारों of the अंग्रेजों Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various places throughout the अंग्रेजों Empire, sometimes लिये extended periods as viceroys, or for विशिष्ट ceremonies or events.
Today, they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout the United Kingdom and abroad on निमित्त of the United Kingdom.
Aside इससे the monarch, their only संवैधानिक भूमिका in the अफेयर्स of government is to serve, if eligible and when appointed by अक्षर patent, as a Counsellor of State, दो or अधिक of whom exercise the authority of the Crown ( within stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch.
In the other realms of the Commonwealth रॉयल्टी do नहीं serve as Counsellors of State.
however in प्रत्येक such फ्रेम the monarch 's परिवार सदस्यों may act on behalf of, are funded by, and represent the sovereign of that particular state, and not the संयुक्त Kingdom.
the Queen, उसके consort, उसके children और grandchildren, as well as all former अधिपति ' children and grandchildren hold places in the first sections of the official orders of पूर्वता in इंग्लैण्ड और Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
पत्नियां of the said enjoy their पतियों ' पूर्वता, और husbands of princesses हैं unofficially but habitually placed with their wives as खूब.
However, the Queen changed the private order of precedence in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and Alexandra, जो henceforth लो private पूर्वता over the Duchess of Cornwall, who is otherwise the realm 's highest ranking woman after the Queen herself.
वो किया not alter the relative precedence of other born-princesses, such as the daughters of her younger sons.
हैती ( ; Haitian Creole ayiti ), officially the Republic of Haiti ( ; ), is a Caribbean country.
It occupies the western, smaller portion of the द्वीप of Hispaniola, in the Greater Antillean द्वीपसमूह, which it shares साथ the Dominican Republic.
Ayiti ( land of ऊँची mountains ) was the indigenous taíno or Amerindian name for the island.
The country 's उच्चतम point is Pic la Selle, at.
The total area of Haiti is and इसके capital is Port-au-Prince.
haitian Creole and French are the आधिकारिक languages.
Haiti 's regional, historical, and ethno-linguistic position is unique for several reasons.
It was the first independent nation of Latin America और the Caribbean, the first black -led गणतंत्र in the world, and the second गणतंत्र in the Americas when it gained स्वतंत्रता in 1804 as part of a successful slave क्रान्ति lasting nearly a decade.
In 2012, Haiti announced its intention to तलाश associate सदस्यता status in the African संघ.
Haiti is the most populous of the predominantly Francophone स्वतंत्र राष्ट्र in the Americas.
it is one of only दो independent nations in the Americas ( साथ with Canada ) to designate French as an आधिकारिक language ; the other french-speaking क्षेत्रों हैं all overseas départements, or collectivités, of France.
Haiti is the most populous full member-state of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest country in the americas as measured by the Human Development Index.
राजनैतिक हिंसा रै occurred regularly throughout its history, अग्रणी to government instability.
सबसे recently, in February 2004, a coup d'état originating in the north of the country forced the इस्तीफा और exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
A provisional government took control with security provided by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in हैती ( MINUSTAH ).
Michel Martelly, the current president, was elected in the haitian general election, 2011.
The island has had a history of destructive earthquakes.
a 7.0 magnitude भूकंप struck Haiti on 12 January 2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince.
The highest reliable death count थी estimated at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates यहूद higher.
The Presidential palace, Parliament और many other important structures were destroyed, along साथ countless homes and businesses, leaving सैंकड़ों of हज़ारों of people homeless.
The country रै yet to recover from the 2010 भूकंप ( और subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the severity of the damage Haiti endured in 2010, as well as a सरकारी that was ineffective well before the earthquake.
United States सहायता organizations have donated $ 2 billion.
संयुक्त with अन्य international दान, these funds are intended to योगदान to the rebuilding of the country.
the Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo, the Italian electro house and dance-punk music producer, DJ and photographer.
the Bloody Beetroots is well-known for the black venom mask he wears during performances.
In fact, the only identifying पब्लिक feature of rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed across his chest, which is दोनो the year that the producer and punk-rock was born.
`` the Bloody beetroots DJ set '' contains Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo and टॉमी Tea.
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric pager used in Brazil in the 1990s, संचालित by Teletrim
A पेजर is a wireless दूरसंचार यंत्र that receives and displays numeric or text messages, or receives and announces voice संदेश.
One-way pagers can only receive messages, while response pagers और two-way pagers can also acknowledge, reply to, and originate messages using an internal ट्रांसमीटर.
Pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes one or more fixed transmitters ( or in the case of response pagers and two-way pagers, one or more base स्टेशन ), as well as a number of pagers carried by मोबाईल users.
These systems can range from a restaurant system with a सिंगल low-power ट्रांसमीटर, to a nationwide system with thousands of high-power base stations.
One of the first practical paging services was launched in 1950 for physicians in the New York City area.
physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the सेवा and carried a ( 6 oz ) pager that would receive phone messages within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
the system was manufactured by the reevesound Company और संचालित by Telanswerphone.
In 1960, John Francis मिशेल संयुक्त elements of Motorola 's walkie Talkie and automobile रेडियो technologies to create the first transistorized pager, and from this पाइंट, paging technology continued to advance, and pager adoption continued to विस्तार, until the early 1990s.
However, by the mid-1990s, as cellular technologies became cheaper and more widely available, advanced services began to displace paging as a वाणिज्यिक product.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche products, finding preferential use in अनुप्रयोग such as hospitals, public safety, and retail locations where उनके सादगी, high विश्वसनीयता, and low cost represent significant लाभ.
Reevesville is a town in Dorchester County, South कैरोलिना, United States.
the population थी 196 at the 2010 census.
as पारिभाषित by the U.S. Office of Management and बजट, and used by the U.S. Census Bureau लिये statistical purposes only, reevesville is included भीतर the Charleston-North Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area.
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda kahlo y calderón ; जुलाई 6, 1907 – July 13, 1954 ) was a मैक्सिकन painter, born in Coyoacán, who is बेहतरीन ज्ञात for her self-portraits.
kahlo 's जीवन began and ended in Mexico City, in her home known as the Blue House.
She gave her birth date as July 7, 1910, लकिन her birth certificate shows July 6, 1907.
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her birth to coincide with the year of the beginning of the Mexican क्रान्ति so that उसके life होता शुरू with the birth of आधुनिक मैक्सिको.
Her कार्य has been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of national and indigenous tradition, और by feminists लिये its uncompromising depiction of the मादा अनुभव and form.
Mexican culture और Amerindian cultural परंपरा are important in her work, which has been sometimes characterized as Naïve art or लोक art.
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '', and in 1938 André ब्रेटन, principal initiator of the surrealist movement, described kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a बमबारी ''.
Kahlo had a volatile marriage with the famous Mexican artist Diego रिवेरा.
She suffered lifelong health समस्याएं.
Many of her health problems were the result of a traffic accident वो survived as a teenager.
Recovering from her injuries isolated उसके from अन्य people और this अलगाव influenced her works, many of which are self-portraits of one sort or another.
Kahlo suggested, `` I paint myself because I am so often alone and because I am the subject I know बेहतरीन. ''
She also stated, `` I was born a bitch.
I was born a चित्रकार. ''
300px
Theresienwiese on the दिन before Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held annually in Munich, Bavaria, जर्मनी, running from late September to the first weekend in अक्तूबर.
It is एक of the most famous events in Germany and is the संसार 's largest fair, with अधिक than 6 लाख people इससे around the संसार attending the event प्रत्येक year.
To the स्थानीय, it is not called Oktoberfest, but `` die Wiesn '', after the colloquial नाम of the fairgrounds themselves.
the Oktoberfest is an important part of bar culture, having been आयोजित since 1810.
Other cities across the world also hold Oktoberfest celebrations, modeled after the original म्यूनिख event.
The Munich Oktoberfest originally took place during the sixteen days up to, and सहित, the first Sunday in October.
In 1994, the अनुसूची was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd, then the festival would go on until अक्तूबर 3 ( German Unity Day ).
Thus, the festival is now 17 days when the first Sunday is अक्तूबर 2 and 18 days when it is अक्तूबर 1.
In 2010, the पर्व lasted until the first Monday in October, to mark the वर्षगांठ of the इवेंट.
The festival is held in an area named the Theresienwiese ( field, or meadow, of Therese ), often पुकारा Wiesn for short, located निकट Munich 's center.
Large quantities of oktoberfest Beer are consumed, with almost 7 million liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007.
Visitors may also आनंद a चौड़ी किस्में of traditional food such as hendl ( chicken ), Schweinebraten ( roast pork ), Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock ), steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick ), Würstl ( sausages ) साथ साथ brezeln ( Pretzel ), Knödel ( potato or bread dumplings ), Käsespätzle ( cheese noodles ), reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ), Sauerkraut or rotkohl/blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white सॉसेज ).
A platter साथ cheese and garnishes
Wheels of Gouda
Cheese is a generic term for a diverse group of milk-based food products.
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging flavors, textures, and फ़ॉर्म.
Cheese consists of proteins and fat इससे milk, usually the milk of cows, buffalo, goats, or sheep.
It is produced by coagulation of the milk protein casein.
typically, the milk is acidified and addition of the एंजाइम rennet causes coagulation.
The solids हैं separated and pressed into फाइनल form.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
Most cheeses melt at cooking तापमान.
सैंकड़ों of types of cheese from various देशों are produced.
Their styles, textures and flavors depend on the उत्पत्ति of the milk ( including the animal 's diet ), whether वे have been pasteurized, the butterfat content, the bacteria और mold, the processing, and aging.
herbs, मसाले, or wood smoke may be used as flavoring agents.
The yellow to red color of many cheeses, ऐसे as Red लीसेस्टर, is normally formed from adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids ऐसे as vinegar or नीबू juice.
सबसे cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria, which फेरे milk sugars into lactic acid, then the जोड of rennet completes the curdling.
Vegetarian विकल्प to rennet are available ; most are produced by fermentation of the fungus Mucor miehei, लकिन अन्य have been extracted from various species of the Cynara thistle family.
Cheese is valued for its पोर्टेबिलिटी, long life, and high content of fat, protein, calcium, and phosphorus.
Cheese is more compact and रै a longer शेल्फ life than milk, although how long a cheese will keep may depend on the प्रकार of cheese ; labels on पैकेट्स of cheese प्रायः अर्जी कि a cheese should be consumed within तीन to five दिनों of opening.
Generally speaking, hard cheeses last longer than soft cheeses, such as brie or बकरी 's milk cheese.
cheesemakers निकट a dairy प्रदेश may benefit from fresher, lower-priced मिल्क, and निम्नतर shipping costs.
The long भंडार life of कुछ cheese, especially if it is encased in a सुरक्षात्मक rind, allows selling when markets are favorable.
Additional संघटक may be added to some cheeses, such as ब्लैक peppers, garlic, chives or जमाया.
A specialist विक्रेता of cheese is sometimes known as a cheesemonger.
To become an expert in this field, जैसे wine or cooking, requires some formal education and years of tasting and hands-on experience.
इस स्थिति is typically responsible लिये all पहलुओं of the cheese inventory ; selecting the cheese menu, purchasing, receiving, storage, and ripening.
Legal citation signals are a नियत of brief abbreviated phrases or words used to clarify the प्राधिकार or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition.
सिग्नल सहायता a reader quickly discern meaning or usefulness of a particular reference when the reference itself does not provide adequate information.
Most citation signals are placed in front of the citation to which they apply.
For example, in the paragraph When writing a legal argument, it is important to refer to primary sources.
To assist readers in locating these sources, it is desirable to use a standardized citation format.
देखिए generally Harvard Law Review Association, The Bluebook : A Uniform System of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that some न्यायालयों may require any legal papers कि are submitted to उन्हें to conform to a different citation स्वरूप.
the signal is the phrase `` देखिए generally, '' which indicates that the citation `` The bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the topic.
Neil Alden Armstrong ( अगस्त 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012 ) was an American astronaut और the first person to walk on the Moon.
He was also an aerospace engineer, naval aviator, test pilot, and university professor.
Before becoming an astronaut, आर्मस्ट्रांग was an officer in the U.S. नेवी and परोसा in the Korean War.
After the war, he earned his bachelor 's degree at Purdue University and served as a test pilot at the National Advisory Committee लिये Aeronautics high-speed उड़ान Station, now known as the Dryden Flight Research Center, जहाँ he logged over 900 flights.
He later समाप्त graduate studies at the University of Southern California.
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's man in Space Soonest and x-20 dyna-soar human spaceflight programs, Armstrong joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962.
he made his first space flight, as command pilot of Gemini 8, in 1966, becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly in space.
On इस mission, he performed the first docking of two spacecraft, साथ पायलट David स्कॉट.
Armstrong 's दूसरी and last spaceflight थी as mission commander of the Apollo 11 चंद्रमा लैंडिंग, in July 1969.
On this मिशन, Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin descended to the चंद्र सतह and खर्च two और a half घंटों exploring, while Michael Collins remained in चंद्र orbit in the Command मोड्यूल.
Along with Collins and एल्ड्रिन, Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by अध्यक्ष Richard निक्सन ; in 1978, President Jimmy कार्टर presented Armstrong the congressional Space पदक of Honor in 1978 ; he and his former crewmates received the congressional Gold Medal in 2009.
Armstrong died in सिनसिनाटी, Ohio, on अगस्त 25, 2012, at the age of 82, after complications from coronary artery bypass सर्जरी.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand आज.
He is considered to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN क्रमित Secretariat the 35th बेहतरीन athlete of the 20th century, the highest रैंकिंग racehorse on the सूची URL_http.
He ranked दूसरी behind man o ' War in the blood-horse 's सूची of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th सदी.
Secretariat was sired by Bold शासक out of Somethingroyal, by princequillo.
He was foaled at The Meadow in Caroline County, Virginia.
Like उसके famous पूर्ववर्ती Man o ' युद्ध, सचिवालय was a विशाल chestnut colt and was दिए the same उपनाम, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte, साथ साथ apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ), and दिग्गज Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered colors and his groom was एडी Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, and weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his रेसिंग prime.
Madrid (, ) is the capital and largest city of स्पेन.
The population of the नगर is roughly 3.3 million and the संपूर्ण population of the Madrid महानगर area is calculated to be around 6.5 million.
it is the third-largest city in the European Union, after London and Berlin, and its महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the third-largest in the European Union after London and पेरिस.
The city spans a total of.
The city is located on the Manzanares नदी in the centre of both the country और the Community of Madrid ( which comprises the नगर of Madrid, its conurbation and extended suburbs and villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha.
As the capital नगर of स्पेन, seat of government, and residence of the Spanish monarch, Madrid is also the political, economic और cultural centre of Spain.
the current mayor is ana botella from the People 's Party ( pp ).
The Madrid urban agglomeration रै the third-largest GDP in the European Union and its प्रभाव in politics, education, entertainment, पर्यावरण, media, फ़ैशन, science, culture, और the arts सब contribute to its status as one of the world 's प्रमुख वैश्विक cities.
Due to its आर्थिक output, high standard of living, and market size, Madrid is considered the major financial centre of Southern Europe और the Iberian Peninsula ; it होस्ट the सिर कार्यालयों of the vast majority of the major स्पेनी companies, such as Telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the continent, and the seventh most visited नगर in the world according to Forbes.
Is the 10th most livable city in the world according to Monocle magazine, in its 2010 अनुक्रमणिका.
मैड्रिड also बाँधने among the 12 greenest यूरोपीय cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is currently a प्रत्याशी City for the 2020 Summer Olympics.
मैड्रिड houses the मुख्यालय of the World पर्यटन Organization ( WTO ), belonging to the United राष्ट्र Organization ( UN ), the SEGIB, the Organization of Ibero-American राज्य ( oei ), and the Public ब्याज Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
it भी hosts major अंतरराष्ट्रीय संस्थानों regulators of Spanish : the Standing कमेटी of the Association of Spanish भाषा Academies, headquarters of the royal Spanish Academy ( rae ), the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent स्पेनी ( Fundéu ).
Madrid organizes मेलों as FITUR, ARCO, SIMO TCI and the Cibeles Madrid Fashion Week.
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure, it has preserved the look and महसूस of many of its ऐतिहासिक neighbourhoods and streets.
Its landmarks शामिल the Royal Palace of मैड्रिड ; the Teatro Real ( royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro पार्क, founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National Library भवन ( founded in 1712 ) containing कुछ of Spain 's historical archives ; a large number of National museums, and the Golden Triangle of Art, स्तिथ along the Paseo del Prado and comprising तीन art museums : Prado संग्रहालय, the museo Nacional centro de arte Reina Sofía, a संग्रहालय of आधुनिक आर्ट, and the thyssen-bornemisza संग्रहालय, which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums.
Cibeles Palace और Fountain have become the monument symbol of the city.
The पाथ of the Via appia and of the Via Appia Traiana.
Remains of the Appian Way in Rome, निकट quarto Miglio
Near Rome.
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : Via appia ) was one of the earliest और strategically most important रोमन roads of the ancient republic.
It कनेक्ट Rome to brindisi, Apulia, in southeast Italy.
इसके महत्व is indicated by its common name, recorded by Statius :
Appia teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the Appian way is the queen of the long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor who began and completed the first खण्ड as a सैन्य road to the south in 312 BC दौरान the samnite Wars.
The Draupner wave, a single giant wave measured on New Year 's Day 1995, finally confirmed the existence of freak waves, which had previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves, दानव waves, killer waves, extreme लहरें, and असामान्य waves ) हैं relatively large and spontaneous ocean surface waves that occur far आउट at sea, and are a threat even to large जहाजों और ocean liners.
in oceanography, they are more precisely defined as लहरें whose height is अधिक than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ), जिससे is itself defined as the mean of the largest third of waves in a wave record.
इसलिए rogue लहरें are not necessarily the biggest waves found at sea ; they are, बल्कि, surprisingly large waves for a given sea state.
Rogue waves seem not to have a single पृथक cause, लकिन occur where शारीरिक factors such as high winds and strong currents कारण waves to merge to create a single exceptionally large wave.
electress Sophia of Hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is the ordered sequence of all those people eligible to सफल to the throne of the United किंगडम and the अन्य 15 Commonwealth realms.
The अधिनियम of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on the Electress Sophia of हनोवर और her descendants while excluding Roman Catholics.
The अंग्रेजों government does नहीं publish an official list of सब those in लकीर to succeed, but the work of genealogical authors and amateur researchers suggests that वहीँ are several thousand people potentially in line.
At a summit in पर्थ, पश्चिमी Australia in 2011, the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms सहमत to take कदम to adopt निरपेक्ष primogeniture, end the exclusion of people married to रोमन Catholics, and make other परिवर्तन in the succession नियम.
The line of succession is also used to चुनें the Counsellors of State ( and a regent if the need arises ) अंतर्गत the provisions of the Regency Act 1937.
For earlier versions of the line of succession, देखिए इतिहास of the British line of succession.
एडवर्ड मोंटगोमरी क्लिफ्ट ( October 17, 1920July 23, 1966 ) was an American film and stage actor The New York Times’ obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody, sensitive young men ''.
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George स्टीवंस 's a Place in the Sun, the anguished Catholic priest in Hitchcock 's I Confess, the doomed regular soldier Robert E. ली Prewitt in Fred Zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity, and the Jewish gi bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions.
Later, after a disfiguring car crash in 1956, and alcohol and prescription drug abuse, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important roles were still उसके, including `` the लापरवाह, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in जॉन हस्टन 's The Misfits, the title भूमिका in Huston 's, and the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations during his करियर, तीन लिये Best कर्ता and one for Best Supporting Actor.
the War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a term commonly लागू to an international military campaign जिससे started as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.
इस resulted in an international military campaign to eliminate al-Qaeda and other militant organizations.
the United Kingdom and many other NATO और non-NATO nations participate in the conflict.
the phrase 'war on Terror ' was first used by US President George W. Bush on 20 सितंबर 2001.
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the पद to signify a global military, political, lawful, and conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as आतंकवादी and regimes accused of supporting them.
it was typically used with a particular फ़ोकस on militant islamists, al-Qaeda, and other jihadi groups.
Although the term is नहीं officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency Operation ), it is स्टिल commonly used by politicians, in the media and by कुछ aspects of government officially, such as the United States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.
German battleship Schleswig-Holstein, Westerplatte, September 1, 1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding बाद her forward पत्रिका थी detonated during the आक्रमण on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World War II were nationalistic issues, unresolved issues, and resentments resulting इससे World War i and the interwar period in Europe, in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s.
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of war are generally understood to be the 1939 invasion of कैंडल by Germany and सोवियत Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan.
These सैन्य aggressions were the परिणाम of decisions made by the authoritarian ruling Nazi elite in Germany and by the leadership of the Kwantung Army in Japan.
World War ii प्रारंभ after ये aggressive actions were मिले with an आधिकारिक declaration of युद्ध and/or हथियारबंद resistance.
The following is a list of gods and other divine and semi-divine आंकड़े from Greek mythology.
The list does नहीं include creatures ; for these, see List of यूनानी mythological creatures.
The Mitsubishi galant is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 और 2012.
The name was derived from the French शब्द galant, meaning `` chivalrous ''.
वहीँ have महरूम nine पृथक generations, and संचयी sales now exceed five million.
It began as a compact sedan, but over the कोर्स of its जीवन has विकसित into a larger mid-size car.
आरंभिक production was only based in जापानी, but चूंकि 1994 the American market रै been served by vehicles assembled at the former Diamond-Star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal, Illinois.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial blood pressure, is the pressure exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of रक्त vessels, and is one of the principal vital लक्षण.
जब used without further specification, `` blood pressure '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic circulation.
दौरान each धड़कन, blood pressure varies between a maximum ( systolic ) और a minimum ( diastolic ) pressure.
The रक्त pressure in the परिसंचरण is principally due to the pumping action of the heart.
Differences in औसत रक्त pressure are responsible for blood flow इससे one location to another in the circulation.
The रेट of mean blood प्रवाह depends on the resistance to flow presented by the blood बरतन.
Mean blood दबाव decreases as the circulating blood moves away from the heart through arteries and capillaries due to viscous नुकसान of उर्जा.
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole परिसंचरण, although most of the fall occurs along the small धमनियों और arterioles.
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g., दौरान standing ) and valves in veins, breathing, और pumping from contraction of skeletal मांसपेशियां also influence blood pressure in veins.
Blood pressure without further specification usually refers to the systemic arterial pressure measured at a person 's upper arm और is a measure of the pressure in the brachial artery, the major artery in the अपर भुजा.
A person’s blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic दबाव over diastolic pressure and is measured in millimetres of पारा ( mmhg ), लिये example 120/80.
a वीटो – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the power ( used by an अधिकारी of the state, लिये example ) to unilaterally stop an official कार्रवाई, especially the enactment of legislation.
A veto can be absolute, as for instance in the United Nations Security Council, whose permanent members ( China, France, रूस, United किंगडम, United राज्य of अमेरिका ) can block any रेज़ोल्यूशन.
Or it can be सीमित, as in the legislative process of the United States, where a two-thirds vote in दोनो the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of विधान.
A वीटो only gives power to stop परिवर्तन, not to अपनाना them ( except for the rare `` amendatory वीटो '' ).
Thus a veto allows its होल्डर to protect the status quo.
the अवधारणा of a veto body originated with the रोमन consuls and tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could block a military or civil निर्णय by the other ; any ट्रिब्यून had the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate.
Sulfur dioxide ( भी sulphur dioxide ) is the chemical compound with the सूत्र.
It is a toxic gas with a pungent, irritating smell, that is released by volcanoes and in various industrial processes.
चूंकि coal and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds, their दहन generates गंधक डाइऑक्साइड unless the sulfur compounds are removed before burning the fuel.
Further oxidation of SO2, usually in the presence of a उत्प्रेरक such as NO2, forms H2SO4, and thus acid rain.
गंधक dioxide emissions are भी a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere.
Both of these impacts are cause for concern over the पर्यावरणीय impact of these fuels.
Myasthenia gravis ( from यूनानी μύς `` मांसपेशी '', `` weakness '', and `` गंभीर '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating मांसपेशी कमज़ोरी and fatigability.
It is an autoimmune disorder, in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction, inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
Myasthenia is treated medically with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, and, in चयनित cases, thymectomy.
the disease incidence is 3–30 cases per लाख per साल और rising as a result of increased जागरूकता.
MG must be distinguished from congenital myasthenic syndromes that can present similar लक्षण but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments.
परावर्तक twisted nematic liquid crystal display.
Polarizing filter film with a vertical axis to polarize light as it enters.
कांच substrate with ito electrodes.
The shapes of these electrodes will determine the shapes that होगा appear when the LCD is turned on.
Vertical ridges etched on the surface are smooth.
Twisted nematic liquid crystal.
Glass substrate with common एलेक्ट्रोड film ( ITO ) with horizontal ridges to line up with the आड़ा filter.
Polarizing filter film with a horizontal अक्ष to block/pass light.
Reflective surface to send light back to दर्शक.
( in a backlit LCD, this layer is replaced साथ a light source. )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD ) is a flat panel display, electronic विज़ुअल display, or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals.
Liquid crystals do not emit light सीधे.
lcds are available to display arbitrary बिंब ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images which can be प्रदर्शित or hidden, such as preset words, digits, and 7-segment displays as in a डिजिटल clock.
They use the same मौलिक technology, except that arbitrary बिंब are made up of a large number of छोटी pixels, while other displays have larger elements.
lcds are used in a चौड़ी range of applications सहित computer मॉनीटर, televisions, instrument panels, aircraft cockpit displays, and signage.
They are common in consumer devices such as वीडियो players, gaming devices, clocks, watches, calculators, and telephones, और have replaced cathode ray tube ( CRT ) displays in most applications.
They are available in a wider range of screen sizes than CRT और plasma displays, and since they do नहीं use phosphors, they do not suffer image burn-in.
lcds are, however, susceptible to image persistence.
The LCD screen is more energy efficient और can be disposed of more सकुशल than a CRT.
Its low विद्युत power consumption enables it to be used in battery -powered electronic equipment.
It is an electronically modulated optical device बना up of any क्रमांक of खण्ड filled with liquid crystals and arrayed in front of a light सोर्स ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome.
Liquid crystals were first discovered in 1888.
By 2008, worldwide sales of televisions साथ LCD screens exceeded annual sales of CRT units ; the CRT became obsolete for सबसे purposes.
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a luxury hotel, कसीनो, and स्पा in Atlantic City, New जर्सी, United States.
It is स्वामित्व by Marina District Development, a संयुक्त venture between Boyd गेमिंग और a divesture विश्वास established by MGM Resorts International.
the $ 1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 rooms and is the largest hotel in New Jersey.
The Borgata opened in जुलाई 2003 as a Las Vegas-style megaresort and is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic City.
A bottle of high potency B-complex vitamin supplement गोलियां.
a vitamin ( or ) is an organic compound required by an organism as a vital nutrient in limited amounts.
An सशुल्क chemical compound ( or related नियत of compounds ) is called a विटामिन when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from the diet.
Thus, the term is conditional both on the circumstances और on the particular organism.
लिये example, ascorbic acid ( vitamin c ) is a vitamin for humans, लकिन not for most other animals, और biotin and vitamin D are required in the इंसान आहार तभी in certain circumstances.
By convention, the term विटामिन includes neither other essential nutrients, such as dietary minerals, essential fatty acids, or अनिवार्य amino acids ( जिससे are needed in larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the विशाल number of other nutrients कि promote health but are otherwise required less प्रायः.
Thirteen विटामिन are universally recognized at present.
Vitamins are classified by their biological और रासायनिक activity, not उनके structure.
Thus, प्रत्येक `` vitamin '' refers to a number of vitamer compounds that सब show the biological activity संबद्ध with a particular vitamin.
Such a set of रसायन is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` जेनेरिक वर्णनकर्ता '' title, such as `` विटामिन A ``, which includes the compounds retinal, retinol, and four known carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the विटामिन in the body, and हैं sometimes inter-convertible to one another, as well.
Vitamins have विविध biochemical functions.
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of mineral metabolism ( such as vitamin D ), or regulators of cell and tissue growth and differentiation ( ऐसे as कुछ फ़ॉर्म of vitamin A ).
अन्य function as antioxidants ( e.g., vitamin e and sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest number of vitamins ( such as b complex vitamins ) function as precursors for enzyme cofactors, that help enzymes in उनके work as catalysts in चयापचय.
In this role, vitamins may be tightly bound to enzymes as भाग of prosthetic groups : For example, biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids.
Vitamins may also be कम tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable molecules that function to carry chemical समूह or electrons between molecules.
For example, folic acid may carry methyl, formyl, and methylene groups in the cell.
Although ये भूमिकाएँ in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are vitamins ' best-known function, the other विटामिन functions are equally महत्वपूर्ण.
जबतक the mid-1930s, जब the first वाणिज्यिक yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement टैबलेट were sold, विटामिन were obtained solely through food intake, and changes in आहार ( which, for उदाहरण, could occur during a particular growing ऋतु ) usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested.
however, vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and खाना supplements और एडिटिव, since the middle of the 20th century.
World मुस्लिम population by percentage ( Pew Research Center, 2009 )
World मुस्लिम population in millions
islam is the world 's second largest धर्म बाद christianity.
According to a 2010 पढ़ाई, Islam has 1.62 billion adherents, making up over 23 % of the world जनसांख्यिकी.
islam is the predominant religion in the Middle East, in Sahel, in the Horn of अफ़्रीकी and northern Africa, and in some भाग of एशिया.
Large communities of Muslims हैं also found in चीन, the Balkans, and Russia.
Other parts of the संसार host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in पश्चिमी Europe, for उदाहरण, Islam is the second largest religion after Christianity, where it represents 6 % of the total जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the pew Research Center in 2010 there were 49 Muslim-majority countries.
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims सजीव in दक्षिण और Southeast Asia, with over 1 अरब adherents.
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia, home to 12.7 % of the संसार 's Muslims, followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ), India ( 10.9 % ), और Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of Muslims live in अरब देशों.
in the Middle East, the non-Arab countries of Turkey and Iran are the largest Muslim-majority देशों ; in Africa, Egypt और Nigeria have the सबसे populous Muslim communities.
A study conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 and released January 2011 found that there are 1.62 billion Muslims around the world.
the study found more मुसलमान in the United Kingdom than in Lebanon और more in China than in सीरियाई.
rhode Island ( or ), officially the State of Rhode Island और Providence Plantations, is a state in the New इंग्लैण्ड region of the संयुक्त राज्य.
rhode Island is the smallest in area, the eighth least populous, but the second most densely populated of the 50 US states behind नई Jersey.
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the वेस्ट and मैसाचुसेट्स to the north और east, and it साझा a water boundary with New York 's Long Island to the southwest.
Rhode Island थी the first of the 13 original colonies to घोषित independence from British rule, declaring itself independent on May 4, 1776, दो महीने before कोई अन्य उपनिवेश.
The State was also the last of the thirteen असली colonies to ratify the संयुक्त States Constitution.
Rhode Island 's आधिकारिक nickname is `` The Ocean State '', a reference to the State 's geography, since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to परिचय 14 % of its total area.
इसके land area is, but इसके total area is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the संयुक्त Arab Emirates, स्तिथ भीतर the emirate of the same नाम.
The emirate of Dubai is स्तिथ on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf on the Arabian Peninsula and is one of the seven emirates कि make up the country.
It रै the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest land territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi.
Dubai और Abu Dhabi, the national capital, हैं the तभी two emirates to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the country 's legislature.
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's northern तटरेखा and heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a देश or city-state and, in some cases, the UAE as a whole has been described as 'Dubai '.
The earliest mention of दुबई is in 1095 ad, and the earliest अंकित settlement in the region dates from 1799.
the Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by Sheikh maktoum bin Butti Al-Maktoum when he persuaded around 800 members of his tribe of the Bani Yas, living in what was then the Second Saudi State and now भाग of सऊदी Arabia, to follow him to the दुबई क्रीक by the Abu Falasa गोत्र of the bani yas.
It remained under the जनजाति 's control when the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in 1892 and joined the nascent United Arab Emirates upon स्वतंत्रता in 1971 as the देश 's दूसरी अमीर.
इसके strategic geographic location made the town an important trading hub and by the beginning of the 20th century, Dubai थी already an important regional port.
Today, दुबई has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis कि has grown steadily to become a global city and a business और cultural hub of the मध्य East and the Persian Gulf region.
हालांकि Dubai 's economy was historically built on the oil industry, the emirate 's Western-style मॉडल of business ड्राइव its economy साथ the main revenues अभी coming from tourism, रियल estate, और financial services.
Dubai has recently attracted world attention through many innovative large construction projects and sports कार्यक्रम.
The city has become symbolic लिये its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings, such as the संसार 's tallest Burj Khalifa, in जोड to महत्वाकांक्षी development प्रोजेक्ट including man-made islands, hotels, and कुछ of the largest shopping मॉल in the region and the world.
इस increased attention has also highlighted मजदूर and human rights issues concerning the city 's largely South Asian सशुल्क workforce.
Dubai 's प्रॉपर्टी मार्केट experienced a प्रमुख deterioration in 2008–2009 as a result of the worldwide economic downturn following the वित्तीय crisis of 2007-2008.
However, Dubai has made a स्थिर and gradual recovery with help coming from neighboring emirates.
The handful of new projects that हैं in the pipeline have been able to help Dubai रियल estate मेक a वापसी.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd सबसे expensive city in the संसार, और the most expensive city in the मध्य East, surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai रै also been rated as one of the best places to live in the मध्य East, including by US American global consulting कड़ मर्सर who rated the नगर as the बेहतरीन प्लेस to सजीव in the Middle East in 2011.
The following is a list of colleges and universities in the U.S. state of Illinois.
सतह of the अटलांटिक समंदर meeting the Earth 's planetary boundary layer and troposphere.
Waves on an ocean coast.
This animation uses Earth science data इससे a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to measure physical oceanography parameters such as समंदर currents, ocean winds, समुद्र surface height and sea surface temperature.
An ocean ( ; the संसार समंदर of शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता ) is a body of saline water that composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere.
In the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of Earth, it refers to एक or all of the major divisions of the planet 's संसार Ocean – वे are, in descending order of area, the Pacific, अटलांटिक, भारतीय, दक्षिणी ( Antarctic ), and Arctic Oceans.
The word `` sea `` is प्रायः used interchangeably with `` ocean '', but सख्ती speaking a sea is a body of saline water ( possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
Earth is the only ग्रह ज्ञात to have an ocean ( or कोई विशाल amounts of open द्रव water ).
Approximately 72 % of the planet 's सतह ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline water that is customarily divided into several principal महासागर and छोटी seas, with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface.
In शर्तें of the hydrosphere of the धरती, the ocean contains 97 % of the Earth 's water.
Oceanographers have stated that out of 97 %, तभी 5 % of the ocean as a whole on Earth has been छान.
क्युकी it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere, the world समंदर is integral to all known life, forms part of the कार्बन साईकिल, and influences climate and weather patterns.
The total volume is approximately 1.3 अरब cubic kilometres ( 310 million cu mi ) with an average depth of.
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species, हालांकि much of the ocean 's depths remain unexplored और it is estimated that over two million marine species exist.
The origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown, but oceans are believed to have formed in the Hadean period और may have been the impetus for the emergence of जीवन.
Extraterrestrial महासागर may be रचित of a wide range of elements and compounds.
The only पुष्टि विशाल stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of टाइटन, although there is प्रमाण for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System.
जल्दी in उनके geologic histories, मंगल and शुक्र हैं theorized to have had large water oceans.
The Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third of the surface of Mars was once covered by water, though the जल on Mars is no longer oceanic, and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus.
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point, so that water might exist in large quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice.
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the surface of अनेक dwarf planets and natural satellites ; notably, the ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the जल volume of Earth.
The Solar System 's गैस giant planets are also believed to possess liquid atmospheric परतों of yet to be confirmed compositions.
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons, including surface oceans of liquid water भीतर a परितारकीय habitable zone.
Ocean planets are a काल्पनिक प्रकार of planet with a surface completely covered साथ liquid.
एल्विस Aaron प्रेस्ली ( January 8, 1935 – August 16, 1977 ) थी an American singer और कर्ता.
a cultural प्रतीक, he is commonly known by the single name Elvis.
One of the most popular musicians of the 20th century, he is प्रायः referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the किंग ''.
Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley moved to Memphis, Tennessee, with उसके family at the age of 13.
He began his career there in 1954, working with Sun Records owner Sam Phillips, who wanted to bring the sound of African-American music to a wider audience.
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black, Presley was the most important popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -driven fusion of देश और rhythm and blues.
RCA Victor acquired his अनुबंध in a सौदे arranged by Colonel tom Parker, who गई on to manage the सिंगर for over two decades.
Presley 's first RCA सिंगल, `` Heartbreak Hotel ``, released in January 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of rock and roll with a श्रेणी of network television दिखावे and chart-topping records.
His energized interpretations of songs, many from African-American sources, और his uninhibited प्रदर्शन style made him enormously popular—and controversial.
In November 1956, he made उसके film debut in Love Me टेंडर.
Drafted into military service in 1958, Presley relaunched his रिकॉर्डिंग career two years later साथ some of his most commercially successful कार्य.
He staged few concerts however, और guided by Parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to बनाना Hollywood movies और soundtrack एल्बम, सबसे of them critically derided.
In 1968, after सात years away from the stage, he returned to सजीव performance in a celebrated comeback television special that led to an extended Las Vegas concert residency and a string of profitable tours.
In 1973 प्रेस्ली staged the पहला concert broadcast globally via satellite, Aloha from Hawaii.
Prescription drug गाली severely deteriorated his health, and he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42.
प्रेस्ली is regarded as one of the most important figures of 20th-century popular culture.
He था a versatile voice and unusually wide success encompassing many genres, including country, pop ballads, इन्जील, and ब्लूज़.
He is the best-selling solo artist in the history of popular music.
Nominated for 14 प्रतिस्पर्धी Grammys, he won three, और प्राप्त the ग्रैमी आजीवन Achievement Award at आयु 36.
He has been inducted into अनेक music halls of fame.
a glass of root beer with foam
रूट beer is a carbonated, sweetened beverage, originally made using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the bark of a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor.
Root beer, popularized in North America, comes in two forms : alcoholic and soft drink.
The historical रूट बियर was analogous to small beer in कि the process provided a drink with a very कम दारू content.
Although roots are used as the source of many soft drinks throughout the world, often अलग names are used.
fluorescent minerals emit visible लाइट when exposed to पराबैंगनी light
Fluorescence is the emission of light by a substance that has अवशोषित light or other electromagnetic विकिरण.
It is a form of luminescence.
In most मामले, the emitted light has a longer wavelength, और इसलिए lower उर्जा, than the absorbed विकिरण.
However, जब the absorbed इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation is intense, it is possible लिये one electron to absorb two photons ; this two-photon अवशोषण can सीसे to उत्सर्जन of radiation having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation.
The emitted radiation may also be of the वही wavelength as the absorbed radiation, termed `` resonance fluorescence ''.
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur when the absorbed विकिरण is in the ultraviolet प्रदेश of the spectrum, and यूँ invisible to the human eye, and the emitted light is in the visible प्रदेश.
Fluorescence has many practical applications, सहित mineralogy, gemology, chemical sensors ( fluorescence स्पेक्ट्रमिकी ), fluorescent labelling, dyes, biological detectors, and, most commonly, fluorescent lamps.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside of a औपचारिक setting.
However, perhaps क्युकी of the informal in the title, the precise definition of informal logic is a matter of some dispute.
Ralph H. जॉनसन और J. एंथोनी ब्लेयर define अनौपचारिक logic as `` a शाखा of logic जिनकी task is to develop non-formal standards, criteria, प्रक्रियाओं for the analysis, interpretation, evaluation, criticism and निर्माण of argumentation. ''
This परिभाषा reflects what था been implicit in their practice and what अन्य were doing in their informal logic texts.
Informal logic is संबद्ध with ( अनौपचारिक ) fallacies, critical thinking, the Thinking Skills गति and the interdisciplinary inquiry ज्ञात as argumentation theory.
Frans H. van Eemeren writes कि the label `` informal logic '' कवर a `` collection of normative approaches to the study of reasoning in ordinary language that remain करीब to the practice of argumentation than formal logic. ''
USA annual रियल GDP 1910–60, साथ the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
बेरोजगारी रेट in the US 1910–1960, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the Great Depression began in August of 1929, when the United States economy first गई into an economic recession.
Although the देश spent two months साथ declining GDP, it was not until the Wall Street Crash of October, 1929 that the effects of a declining अर्थव्यवस्था were felt, and a major worldwide आर्थिक downturn ensued.
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment, poverty, low profits, deflation, plunging farm incomes, and खोया opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement.
Although its causes are स्टिल अनिश्चित और controversial, the net effect was a sudden and सामान्य loss of confidence in the economic future.
The usual explanations include numerous factors, especially high consumer debt, ill-regulated markets that permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors, and the lack of high-growth new industries, सब interacting to बनाएँ a downward आर्थिक spiral of घटाया बिता, falling confidence, and lowered production.
Industries that suffered the most included construction, agriculture as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland, shipping, mining, और logging as खूब as durable goods like automobiles और appliances that could be postponed.
the economy reached bottom in the शीत of 1932–33 ; then came four years of very rapid विकास जबतक 1937, when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment.
The Depression caused major political changes in America.
Three years into the अवसाद, Herbert हूवर lost the 1932 अध्यक्षीय election to फ्रैंकलिन Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's आर्थिक रिकवरी plan, the New Deal, instituted unprecedented programs for relief, recovery and सुधार, and brought about a major realignment of American politics.
The Depression also resulted in an increase of emigration of people to अन्य countries for the पहला time in अमरीकी history.
For example, some immigrants went back to their देशी countries, और some native US citizens went to Canada, Australia, and South Africa.
It also resulted in the mass migration of लोगों from badly hit areas in the Great Plains and the South to places such as California and the North, क्रमशः ( see Okies and the ग्रेट Migration of African Americans ).
Racial tensions also increased during this time.
by the 1940s immigration had लौटे back to normal, and emigration declined.
A well-known उदाहरण of an emigrant was Frank McCourt, who गई to Ireland, as recounted in his book Angela 's राख.
The memory of the Depression भी shaped modern theories of अर्थशास्त्र and resulted in many changes in how the government dealt with economic downturns, such as the use of stimulus packages, Keynesian economics, and Social Security.
It also shaped modern American literature, resulting in प्रसिद्ध novels such as John steinbeck 's `` The अंगूर of Wrath `` and `` of Mice और Men ``.
The ग्रेट Depression of the 1930s started with the stock मार्केट crash of अक्तूबर 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the Republic of Turkey, is a transcontinental country, स्तिथ mostly on Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern यूरोपीय.
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria to the northwest ; Greece to the west ; Georgia to the northeast ; Armenia, इरान and the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the Aegean Sea is to the west ; and the ब्लैक समुद्र is to the उत्तर.
The Sea of Marmara, the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which together form the Turkish Straits ) demarcate the boundary between thrace and Anatolia ; they भी separate Europe and Asia.
Turkey 's location at the crossroads of Europe and Asia makes it a country of significant geostrategic importance.
The country 's official भाषा is Turkish, a turkic भाषा, which is spoken by approximately 85 % of the population as mother tongue.
the most numerous ethnic group is the Turks, जो constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook.
Kurds are the largest जातीय minority and, according to the same source, क्रमांक around 18 % of the population while other ethnic minorities are estimated to be at 7–12 %.
The vast majority of the population is Muslim.
The क्षेत्रफल now called तुर्कों has महरूम inhabited since the Paleolithic, including various Ancient आनातोलियाई civilizations और Thracian peoples.
After Alexander the Great 's conquest, the area was Hellenized, which continued with the Roman rule and the transition into the Byzantine Empire.
The Seljuk turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century, starting the process of Turkification, जिससे was greatly accelerated by the Seljuk विजय over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071.
The Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm ruled आनातोलिया until the Mongol invasion in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into several small तुर्की beyliks.
Starting इससे the लेट 13th सदी, the उस्मानी beylik संयुक्त आनातोलिया और created an empire encompassing much of Southeastern Europe, Western एशिया and North Africa.
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following its defeat in World War I, parts of it were occupied by the विजयी Allies.
A cadre of young military officers, led by mustafa Kemal Atatürk and उसके colleagues, organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they स्थापित the modern Republic of तुर्कों, with Atatürk as its first president.
Turkey is a democratic, secular, unitary, constitutional republic with a diverse cultural विरासत.
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West through membership in संगठनों such as the Council of Europe, नाटो, OECD, OSCE और the G-20 major economies.
Turkey began full सदस्यता negotiations with the European Union in 2005, having been an associate member of the European Economic Community since 1963 और having joined the eu Customs Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered close cultural, political and economic relations with the Middle East, काकेशस, the Turkic states of Central एशिया और the African countries through membership in organisations such as the Turkic Council, संयुक्त Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the आर्थिक Cooperation Organisation.
Turkey 's growing अर्थव्यवस्था and diplomatic पहलों have led to इसके recognition as a regional power.
तुर्कों is the world 's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP और the 16th largest by purchasing power parity.
caryn Elaine जॉनसन, best known as Whoopi गोल्डबर्ग (, ( born नवम्बर 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, author और talk show मेजबान.
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a nomination for the अकादमी Award लिये Best Actress and won her first सुनहरी Globe Award for उसके role in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda Mae Brown, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) सहेजें his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the ब्लॉकबस्टर Ghost.
This performance won her a दूसरी Golden Globe and an अकादमी Award for Best supporting अभिनेत्री ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the हवा in 1939.
notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, The Player, Made in America, How Stella Got Her Groove Back, लड़की, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed लिये her roles as the बारटेंडर Guinan in Star Trek : The अगला पीढी, as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash, और as कार्मेन Tibideaux in ग्ली, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been nominated लिये 13 एमी Awards for her कार्य in television.
She थी co-producer of the popular game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004.
She रै been the moderator of the daytime talk show The View चूंकि 2007.
गोल्डबर्ग has a Grammy, two Daytime Emmys, two Golden Globes, a Tony ( for production, not एक्टिंग ), and an Oscar.
in addition, Goldberg has a British अकादमी फिल्मी Award, four लोगों 's Choice Awards, and has महरूम honored साथ a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is एक of the few entertainers who have जीती an Emmy, ग्रैमी, Oscar, and Tony Award.
Augusta is a संचित city in the u.S. state of Georgia, स्तिथ at the fall लकीर of the Savannah River, at the head of its navigable portion.
As of the 2010 census, the Augusta– रिचमंड काउंटी population was 195,844 not counting the unconsolidated शहरों of Hephzibah and Blythe.
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area, which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877, making it both the second-largest city और the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta.
It is the 116th-largest city in the United राज्य.
Internationally, Augusta is best known लिये hosting the Masters Tournament in golf each spring.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट disc which contains आंकड़ा.
The name is an acronym which stands for `` कॉम्पैक्ट Disc Read-only memory ``.
Computers can पढ़ा CD-ROMs, but can not write on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software, सहित video खेल और multimedia अनुप्रयोग, हालांकि any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, थाम both computer data and ऑडियो with the latter capable of होने निभाई on a CD player, while data ( ऐसे as software or digital video ) is तभी usable on a computer ( such as आईएसओ 9660 format PC cd-roms ).
The Yellow किताब is the technical मानक that defines the स्वरूप of CD-ROMs.
One of a नियत of color-bound books that contain the technical विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप, the Yellow Book, created by Sony और Philips, was the first एक्सटेंशन of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the format to hold any रूप of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks before 1986, and known colloquially as the Hawks ) are a professional बर्फ hockey team based in Chicago, इलिनोइस.
They हैं members of the Central Division of the पश्चिमी Conference of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
They have जीती four Stanley Cup championships since their founding in 1926, सबसे recently in 2009–10.
The Blackhawks हैं one of the Original Six एनएचएल teams, along with the डेट्रॉयट Red Wings, Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins and New York Rangers.
Since the Blackhawks have played their home games at the United Center after having spent 65 years playing at Chicago Stadium.
lent याजकों carrying out a street बारात during Holy सप्ताह.
The violet color is often associated with penance और detachment.
Similar Christian penitential अभ्यास is देखी in other Catholic देशों, sometimes associated साथ mortification of the flesh.
granada, Nicaragua.
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many Christian denominations, lasting for a period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday.
In the सामान्य Latin-rite and most Western denominations lent is taken to चलाएं from Ash बुधवार to Maundy Thursday ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter संध्या.
In the Catholic Church, Lent lasts until Holy गुरुवार, while other denominations run until Easter Eve.
The traditional purpose of Lent is the preparation of the believer through prayer, penance, repentance, almsgiving, and self-denial.
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of पावन Week, marking the death, burial and क़यामत of Jesus, which recalls the events of the Bible जब Jesus is crucified on Good शुक्रवार, which then culminates in the celebration on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus मसीह.
During Lent, many of the faithful commit to fasting or giving up certain types of luxuries as a form of penitence.
The स्टेशन of the Cross, a devotional commemoration of मसीह 's carrying the Cross and of उसके execution, are often observed.
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches हटाएँ flowers from their altars, while crucifixes, religious statues, and other elaborate religious प्रतीकों are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain pious Catholic countries, some adherents mark the season with the traditional abstention from the consumption of meat.
In some countries, grand धार्मिक processions और cultural customs are observed, and the faithful attempt to visit seven churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary.
Lent is traditionally described as lasting for forty days, in commemoration of the forty days जिससे, according to the Gospels of Matthew, Mark and ल्यूक, Jesus spent fasting in the मरुस्थल before the शुरूआत of उसके पब्लिक ministry, where he endured temptation by the Devil.
However, अलग Christian denominations गणना the forty days of Lent differently.
in most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as भाग of Lent ; thus the period from Ash Wednesday जबतक Easter consists of 40 days when the Sundays are excluded.
However in the रोमन Catholic Church Lent is now taken to समाप्त on Holy Thursday बल्कि than Easter Eve, and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays, or 44 days in total.
This event, along with its pious customs हैं observed by Catholics, Lutherans, methodists, presbyterians, and Anglicans.
Location of Chernobyl nuclear power plant
The abandoned city of pripyat with Chernobyl plant in the अलहदा
Abandoned housing blocks in pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl प्रलय ) was a अनर्थकारी nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl नाभिकीय Power Plant in युक्त ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ), which was under the direct क्षेत्राधिकार of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
an explosion and fire released large quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय particles into the atmosphere, which spread over much of the western USSR and यूरोपीय.
the chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst नाभिकीय power plant accident in इतिहास, और is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the फुकुशिमा daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination और avert a वृहद catastrophe ultimately शामिल over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The आधिकारिक Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been disputed, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are स्टिल being accounted for.
In व्याकरण, a subject complement is a predicative expression that follows a linking verb ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the विषय of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
In the पूर्व case, a renaming संज्ञा phrase such as a संज्ञा or pronoun is called a predicative nominal.
An adjective following the copula and describing the subject is called a predicative क्रियाशील.
in either case the predicative complement in effect mirrors the subject.
विषय complements are used साथ a small class of verbs called linking verbs or copula, of which be is the most common.
Since copula are stative verbs, subject complements are नहीं affected by any action of the verb.
Subject complements हैं typically not clause arguments, nor are they clause adjuncts.
Throughout the fifty-five साल history of the Grammy Awards, अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have been नियत.
इस पेज only includes the competitive पुरस्कार won by various artists.
इस does not शामिल the various खास awards that हैं presented by the National Academy of Recording कला and Sciences such as Lifetime उपलब्धि Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The पेज however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have महरूम presented to the कलाकार ( s ).
मार्शल Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17, 1972 ), better known by his stage name Eminem ( stylized as eminǝm ) and by his alter अहंकार Slim छायादार, is an American rapper, record producer, songwriter और actor.
Eminem, along with his सोलो career, is a member of उसके group D12, and also one हाफ of the hip hop duo Bad Meets दुष्ट, with Royce da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is one of the best-selling artists in the world और is the best-selling artist of the 2000s.
He has been सूचीबद्ध and ranked as एक of the greatest artists of all time by many magazines, including Rolling Stone magazine which ranked उसे 82nd on its सूची of the 100 Greatest Artists of सब Time.
the same magazine declared him The King of हिप Hop.
Including his कार्य साथ D12 और ख़राब Meets Evil, एमिनेम has achieved ten number-one एल्बम on the बिलबोर्ड 200.
He has sold more than 100 million records विश्वव्यापी, सहित 42 million tracks and 49.1 million albums in the United States.
As an underground rapper एमिनेम released his debut solo album, Infinite in 1996.
The एल्बम was a critical and commercial विफलता.
He gained mainstream popularity in 1999 after the release of उसके major-label debut album the Slim छायादार lp.
The LP also अर्जित Eminem his first Grammy Award for Best Rap Album.
उसके अगला two रिकॉर्ड the Marshall Mathers LP, and the एमिनेम Show, also जीती बेहतरीन Rap Album Grammy पुरस्कार, making Eminem the first कलाकार to win Best Rap Album for three consecutive LPs.
This was followed by another studio रिलीज in 2004 titled Encore.
एमिनेम then went on hiatus after touring in 2005.
He released his पहला album in five years titled Relapse, on may 15, 2009.
in 2010, Eminem released his seventh studio album Recovery.
Recovery was an अंतरराष्ट्रीय कामयाबी and was named the best selling album of 2010 worldwide, joining The Eminem Show, which थी the best seller of 2002.
Eminem won Grammy Awards लिये both Relapse and Recovery, giving him a total of 13 Grammys in his career.
Eminem has opened other ventures, including his own record label Shady Records with his manager Paul Rosenberg.
he भी रै his own रेडियो channel, Shade 45 on Sirius XM Radio.
एमिनेम began an acting career in 2002, when he starred in the hip hop drama film 8 Mile.
He won the Academy Award for Best असली Song, becoming the first rap artist ever to win the award.
He has also made कैमियो appearances in The Wash ( 2001 ), Funny People ( 2009 ) and the television श्रेणी Entourage.
The acre is a unit of area used in the imperial and U.S. customary systems.
An एकड़ is about 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – slightly smaller than an American football field.
The acre is no longer commonly प्रयुक्त, हालांकि a few notable exceptions include the United States, Australia, Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the United Kingdom, हालांकि is still used in real एस्टेट descriptions ).
It is स्टिल used, to some extent, in Canada.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय symbol of the acre is ac, and is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a वर्गाकार mile.
The most commonly used acre today is the international acre.
In the United States both the international एकड़ and the slightly अलग us survey acre are in use.
The most common उपयोग of the acre is to measure tracts of land.
One अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the Middle आयु, an एकड़ was the amount of जमीन that could be plowed in one day साथ a yoke of oxen.
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of Mass led to many new findings in the 19th century.
Joseph proust 's विधि of definite proportions and John Dalton 's परमाणु theory branched from the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier.
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments revealed that combustion involved oxygen बल्कि than what was previously thought to be phlogiston.
The law of संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान, or principle of mass conservation, states कि for any system बंद to सब transfers of matter और उर्जा ( both of which have mass ), the mass of the system must remain निरंतर over time, as system mass can not change quantity if it is not added or removed.
hence, the मात्रा of mass is `` conserved '' over time.
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed, although it may be rearranged in space, or the entities associated साथ it may be changed in form, as for उदाहरण when light or physical work is transformed into particles कि contribute the same mass to the system as the लाइट or work had contributed.
the law implies ( requires ) कि during कोई chemical प्रतिक्रिया, nuclear reaction, or रेडियोसक्रिय decay in an पृथक system, the mass of the reactants or starting material must equal the mass of the उत्पाद.
the अवधारणा of mass conservation is widely used in many fields such as रसायन, mechanics, and द्रव dynamics.
Historically, mass conservation थी खोजा in chemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ by Antoine Lavoisier in the late 18th सदी, and was of crucial importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry.
The closely related concept of matter संरक्षण was मिला to hold good in chemistry to ऐसे high approximation that it failed only for the ऊँची energies treated by the बाद refinements of relativity सिद्धान्त, but otherwise remains useful और sufficiently accurate लिये most chemical calculations, भी in modern अभ्यास.
In special relativity, needed for accuracy when large उर्जा हस्तांतरण between systems is शामिल, the difference between thermodynamically closed और isolated प्रणालियों becomes important, since conservation of द्रव्यमान is strictly and perfectly upheld तभी for so-called isolated प्रणालियों, i.e. those completely isolated इससे all exchanges with the environment.
in this परिस्थिति, the mass-energy equivalence theorem राज्य that mass conservation is equivalent to total energy conservation, which is the first law of thermodynamics.
by contrast, for a thermodynamically closed प्रणाली ( i.e., one जिससे is closed to exchanges of पदार्थ, लकिन open to exchanges of non-material energy, such as ऊष्मा and कार्य, with the परिवेश ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved.
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory, although the change is usually small, since relatively large amounts of such energy ( by comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ).
In special relativity, द्रव्यमान is not परिवर्तित to energy, since energy in all of its forms always retains इसके equivalent amount of mass throughout any transformation or translocation into, or आउट of, a system.
However, certain types of matter ( a different concept ) may be converted to energy, so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the process.
However, if ऐसे उर्जा is removed इससे systems, they जरूर खोना the mass that is associated with it.
In general relativity, mass ( and energy ) संरक्षण in expanding volumes of स्पेस is a जटिल concept, subject to different परिभाषाएं, और neither mass nor energy is as strictly and बस conserved as is the case in special relativity और in मिन्कोवस्की space.
For a discussion, देखिए mass in general relativity.
A सुअर is any of the animals in the genus सस, within the Suidae परिवार of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the घरेलू pig, इसके पूर्वज the जंगली boar, और अनेक other wild relatives.
Young and small pigs are ज्ञात as piglets.
Pigs हैं omnivores and हैं highly social and बुद्धिमान animals.
8-inch, -inch, and -inch floppy disks
8-inch, -inch ( full ऊँचाई ), और -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' magnetic material, removed इससे its housing
A फ्लॉपी disk, or diskette, is a disk storage मीडियम composed of a disk of thin and flexible चुम्बकीय storage medium, sealed in a आयताकार plastic carrier lined साथ fabric that removes dust अणु.
They are read and written by a floppy disk drive ( fdd ).
Floppy disks, initially as मीडिया and बाद in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes, were a ubiquitous form of data storage and exchange from the mid-1970s well into the first decade of the 21st century.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy drive support ; `` floppies could be प्रयुक्त as an external usb drive, लकिन ``, 8 ``, and non-standard drives could तभी be संभाला by बूढ़ा equipment.
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses, especially with विरासत औद्योगिक computer equipment, they have been superseded by data भंडार methods with much greater capacity, such as USB flash drives, portable external मुश्किल disk drives, optical discs, memory cards, and computer networks.
An animated diagram of a cutter
In baseball, a cutter, or cut fastball, is a type of fastball which breaks थोड़ा toward the पिचर 's दस्ताने side as it reaches घर थाली.
इस pitch is somewhere between a slider और a fastball, as it is usually thrown faster than a slider but with more motion than a typical fastball.
Some pitchers उपयोग a cutter as a way to prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs.
A common technique used to throw a cutter is to use a four-seam fastball grip with the baseball set slightly off center in the hand.
When a batter is able to hit a कटर pitch, it often परिणाम in soft contact and an easy आउट, due to the पिच 's movement keeping the ball away from the चमगादड़ 's sweet spot.
The कटर is typically 2–5 किमी slower than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball.
in 2010, the average pitch classified as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher was 88.6 किमी ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 किमी.
`` कया It Takes '' is a power ballad by अमरीकी hard rock band Aerosmith.
it थी written by Steven Tyler, जो Perry, and Desmond Child.
It was released in 1990 as the third सिंगल इससे Aerosmith 's critically and commercially successful 1989 एल्बम Pump.
in the video The Making of Pump, A & r man जॉन Kalodner described the सोंग as `` a masterpiece ''.
During live performances, Tyler sings the first verse a cappella and belts out one of उसके signature screams right before the chorus.
The एल्बम संस्करण of the song is followed by an untitled छुपा track.
Head of Odysseus from a यूनानी 2nd century bc marble group representing Odysseus blinding polyphemus, found at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an ancient Roman mosaic of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek :, ), also ज्ञात by the Roman नाम Ulysses ( ; ), was a legendary यूनानी king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey.
odysseus also plays a key role in होमर 's Iliad और other works in कि वही Epic Cycle.
husband of Penelope, father of Telemachus, and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea, Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance, guile, and versatility ( polytropos ), and is hence known by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning प्रज्ञा `` ).
He is most famous for the ten eventful years he took to वापसी home after the decade-long Trojan War and his famous Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy.
Erie is a statutory Town in Boulder and Weld काउंटी in the U.S. state of Colorado.
the population according to the 2010 census is 18,135 and was recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
The Town of Erie is located just वेस्ट of I-25 for easy access to I-70, Denver International विमानक्षेत्र and Colorado 's संपूर्ण Front Range.
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square मील, extending from the north side of State राजमार्ग 52 दक्षिण to State राजमार्ग 7, and between US 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east.
Erie is approximately 35 मिनट्स इससे डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, 25 minutes to Denver and 20 minutes from Boulder.
The Board of trustees serves as the legislative and शासी body of the कस्बा of erie and is जिम्मेदार for establishing Town policies and goals.
The Board has the प्राधिकार to adopt laws, ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the कारोबार of the Town, and by ordinance may डालें into अनुबंध or intergovernmental agreements to furnish, प्राप्त services or to provide for cooperative service delivery.
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, the Town व्यवस्थापक is the chief operating and administrative officer of the Town and is responsible for providing professional leadership in the administration and निष्पादन of policies और objectives formulated by the Board.
The मिशन of the erie Police Department is to communicate and work with the community to maintain a safe environment, prevent crime and enforce the law, while protecting the अधिकारों of all.
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is स्वामित्व और संचालित by the Town of Erie and is रणनीतिक located in the Denver-Boulder महानगर area on कोलोराडो Highway 7, a little over three मील west of Interstate 25.
the प्रमुख runway is concrete paved and 4,700 feet long.
The is a home वीडियो game कंसोल produced by Sony कंप्यूटर Entertainment.
It is the successor to the प्लेस्टेशन 2, as part of the PlayStation series.
the PlayStation 3 competes with Microsoft 's Xbox 360 और Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh पीढी of video game consoles.
It थी first released on November 11, 2006, in Japan, with international markets following shortly thereafter.
The console was पहला officially announced at E3 2005.
originally set for a spring 2006 release तिथि, it थी delayed several टाइम्स until finally hitting stores at the end of the year.
It was the first and currently तभी कंसोल to use Blu-ray Disc as its primary storage medium.
Major features of the console शामिल its unified online gaming सेवा, the PlayStation संजाल, and इसके connectivity with the PlayStation पोर्टेबल and PlayStation Vita, in September 2009 the updated PlayStation 3 Slim, was released.
This Slim is lighter और thinner than the original version, although it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 backwards compatibility ( removed on बाद असली मॉडल ), but notably featured a re-designed logo and विपणन design.
As of November 4, 2012, 70 million PlayStation 3s have been sold worldwide.
Its successor, PlayStation 4, is नियत for a Q4 2013 release.
Salvador डोमिंगो Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, 1st Marqués de dalí de Pubol ( May 11, 1904January 23, 1989 ), ज्ञात as Salvador Dalí ( ), थी a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres, स्पेन.
Dalí was a skilled draftsman, best known for the striking और bizarre images in उसके surrealist work.
उसके painterly skills are प्रायः attributed to the influence of पुनर्जागरण मास्टर्स.
His best-known work, The Persistence of Memory, थी completed in 1931.
Dalí 's expansive कलाकारी रंगमंडल included film, sculpture, and photography, in collaboration with a range of कलाकारों in a variety of मीडिया.
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my passion for लक्ज़री and my love of oriental कपडे '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '', claiming that his ancestors were descended from the मूर.
Dalí was highly imaginative, and भी enjoyed indulging in unusual and grandiose behavior.
His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing पब्लिक actions sometimes drew more attention than his artwork, to the dismay of those जो held his work in high esteem, और to the जलन of उसके critics.
Philosopher Plato by silanion
the humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture, using methods that are primarily analytical, critical, or speculative, and having a significant historical तत्व, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.
The humanities शामिल ancient and modern languages, literature, philosophy, religion, and visual and performing arts such as music and थिएटर.
The humanities that हैं also regarded as social sciences include history, मानवशास्त्र, area studies, communication अध्ययन, सांस्कृतिक studies, विधि, अर्थशास्त्र और linguistics.
विद्वानों working in the humanities are sometimes described as `` humanists ''.
However, that पद also describes the philosophical position of humanism, जिससे some `` antihumanist `` विद्वानों in the humanities अस्वीकृत.
Some secondary schools प्रस्ताव humanities वर्ग, usually consisting of अंग्रेज़ी literature, global studies, and आर्ट.
Human disciplines like history, cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study विषय matters to which the experimental method does not apply, and they have access instead to the comparative method and तुलनात्मक research.
The 2005 Blue रूम Christmas Tree
The श्वेत House Christmas पेड़, भी ज्ञात as the Blue Room Christmas पेड़, is the official indoor Christmas tree at the residence of the President of the United States, the श्वेत House.
the पहला indoor Christmas tree was संस्थापित in the श्वेत हाउस sometime in the 19th century ( there are varying claims as to the exact year ) और चूंकि 1961 the tree रै had a themed motif at the discretion of the पहला Lady of the United States.
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
The president लीड the executive शाखा of the संघीय government and is the commander-in-chief of the United राज्य Armed Forces.
Article ii of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive शक्ति of the United States in the president और charges उसे with the execution of federal law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive, राजनयिक, नियामक, and judicial officers, और concluding treaties साथ foreign शक्तियां, with the advice and सहमति of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president, despite possessing no formal विधान powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely जिम्मेदार for dictating the विधान agenda of his party and the विदेशी और domestic policy of the संयुक्त States.
The president is अक्सर described as the most powerful person in the संसार.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally elected संघीय officers, the अन्य being the Vice President of the United राज्य.
The twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone from ever होने elected to the presidency for a तीसरा full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the प्रेसिडेंसी more than एकबार if that person previously had served as president, or acting अध्यक्ष, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have served 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, Barack Obama became the 44th और current president.
On नवम्बर 6, 2012, he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve until जनवरी 20, 2017.
Senses हैं physiological capacities of organisms that provide आंकड़ा for perception.
The senses and उनके operation, classification, and सिद्धान्त are overlapping topics studied by a variety of fields, most notably neuroscience, cognitive psychology ( or संज्ञानात्मक science ), and philosophy of perception.
The nervous system रै a specific sensory प्रणाली or organ, समर्पित to each sense.
Humans have a multitude of senses.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), hearing ( audioception ), taste ( gustaoception ), smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ), और touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized.
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists, including temperature ( thermoception ), kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ), pain ( nociception ), balance ( equilibrioception ), acceleration ( kinesthesioception ), और various internal stimuli ( e.g. the different chemoreceptors for detecting salt and carbon डाइऑक्साइड concentrations in the blood ), तभी a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves.
कया constitutes a भाव is a matter of some debate, leading to कठिनाइयों in defining what exactly a sense is.
Animals also have receptors to sense the world around them, with degrees of काबिलियत varying greatly between species.
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of smell, while कुछ पशु may कमी one or more of the traditional five होश.
Some animals may also intake and interpret संवेदी stimuli in very different ways.
Some species of animals are able to sense the world in a way कि humans can not, with some प्रजाति able to sense electrical और magnetic fields, and detect जल pressure और currents.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs कि इंजेक्ट venom.
वे are the largest order of arachnids और रैंक seventh in total species विविधता among all other groups of organisms.
मकड़ियों are found विश्वव्यापी on every continent मगर for Antarctica, and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all ये families should be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed चूंकि 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from अन्य arthropods in कि the usual देह segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
नापसंद insects, spiders do नहीं have antennae.
In all except the most आदिम group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous प्रणालियों of all arthropods, as all their ganglia are fused into एक mass in the cephalothorax.
नापसंद सबसे arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs और बजाय extend them by hydraulic दबाव.
Their abdomens भालू appendages that have been परिवर्धित into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six प्रकार of silk glands within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in size, shape and the amount of sticky thread used.
It now appears कि the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from, and हैं very similar to the सबसे primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of आधुनिक spiders, mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic period, before.
a herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all other known species are परभक्षी, mostly preying on insects and on अन्य spiders, although a few large species also take पक्षियों and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it साथ sticky bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it bas.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have अधि vision, and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of प्रज्ञा in their choice of tactics और ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize their food by flooding it with digestive एंजाइमों and पीस it with the bases of their pedipalps, as they do नहीं have true jaws.
पुरूष spiders identify themselves by a किस्में of complex courtship rituals to avoid being खाया by the महिलाओं.
Males of सबसे species जीवित a few matings, limited mainly by their short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, प्रत्येक of which may contain hundreds of अंडे.
Females of many species care for their young, for example by carrying them around or by sharing खाना with them.
A minority of species are सोशल, building सांप्रदायिक webs that may house anywhere इससे a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior सीमाएँ from precarious toleration, as in the widow मकड़ियों, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most two years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph मकड़ियों can live up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is खतरनाक to इंसानो, वैज्ञानिकों are now researching the use of spider venom in medicine और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider रेशा provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials, and spider रेशा genes have been inserted into mammals और plants to see if these can be प्रयुक्त as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, क्रूरता और creative powers.
धूसर 's anatomy is an American television चिकित्सा drama that premiered on the American Broadcasting Company ( एबीसी ), as a mid-season replacement on March 27, 2005.
the series has aired nine seasons, और focuses on the fictional lives of surgical interns and residents as वे gradually evolve into seasoned doctors, while trying to maintain personal lives.
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes, who serves as an executive producer, along with Betsy Beers, चिह्नित Gordon, क्रिस्टा Vernoff, Rob Corn, Mark Wilding, और Allan heinberg.
The series was created to be racially diverse, utilizing a color-blind casting technique.
It is primarily filmed in Los एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The series ' समर्थक is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ), who originally is स्वीकृत into the residency program at the fictional सिएटल अनुग्रह Hospital.
Meredith is assigned to कार्य under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ), along with Dr. Cristina Yang ( Sandra Oh ), Dr. George o'malley ( T. R. Knight ), Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine heigl ), and Dr. एलेक्स karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following O'Malley 's death and स्टीवंस ' departure, the hospital 's merger with Mercy वेस्ट brings in dr. Jackson एवेरी ( Jesse Williams ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ), in the sixth ऋतु.
The सर्जिकल wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James Pickens, Jr. ), who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ), and later dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin mckidd ).
Dr. Preston बुर्के ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the निष्कर्ष of the third season, and is replaced by Dr. Erica hahn ( Brooke Smith ), who leaves the show दौरान the fifth season, and later dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ), जो departs at the end of the eighth season.
Introduced in the second ऋतु is dr. Addison मोंटगोमरी ( Kate Walsh ), who leaves the show at the end of the third season, in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama Private अभ्यास.
Dr. Callie टोरेस ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. चिह्नित Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the दिखाएँ in the second season, while the latter dies in the premiere of the ninth season.
मेरेडिथ 's half-sister, Dr. lexie Grey ( chyler Leigh ), appears from season three and dies at the end of season आठ.
dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw ) is given series regular status at the beginning of the sixth season.
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated drama in the key 18–49 जनसांख्यिकी.
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the संयुक्त States, Grey 's Anatomy has been well प्राप्त by critics.
माना an impact on संस्कृति, the series has प्राप्त numerous awards, and रै also been included in various आलोचकों ' top ten lists.
The show has produced अनेक specials, as खूब as distributed सब सीज़न to DVD, और released a collection of merchandise.
In 2012, Grey 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest revenue earning show, in शर्तें of advertising per half-hour.
On May 11, 2012, the series was renewed for a ninth ऋतु, which premiered on September 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental disorder characterized by a breakdown of विचार processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses.
आम symptoms शामिल auditory hallucinations, paranoid or bizarre delusions, or disorganized speech and thinking, and it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
the onset of symptoms typically occurs in young adulthood, साथ a global lifetime prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is आधारित on observed behavior and the patient 's reported experiences.
Genetics, early environment, neurobiology, और psychological and social processes appear to be important contributory कारकों ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms.
Current research is focused on the role of neurobiology, although no single isolated organic cause has been found.
the many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the diagnosis represents a single disorder or a number of discrete syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the पद from the Greek roots skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to split '' ) and phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` mind '' ), schizophrenia करता नहीं imply a `` split व्यक्तित्व '', or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these दिनों as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with जिससे it is often उलझन in public बोध.
Rather, the term means a `` splitting of mental functions '', because of the symptomatic presentation of the illness.
the mainstay of उपचार is antipsychotic medication, which primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
Psychotherapy and वोकेशनल and सोशल पुनर्वास are also important in treatment.
In more serious cases—where there is रिस्क to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may be जरुरी, although hospital stays are अभी shorter and less बारंबार than they एकबार were.
The disorder is thought mainly to affect संज्ञान, but it also usually contributes to chronic problems साथ behavior and emotion.
लोगों with schizophrenia are संभावित to have additional ( comorbid ) शर्तें, including प्रमुख depression और चिंता विकार ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 %.
Social problems, ऐसे as long-term unemployment, poverty, and homelessness are common.
The average जीवन expectancy of लोगों with the disorder is 12 to 15 सालो less than those without, the result of increased शारीरिक health समस्याएं और a उच्चतर suicide रेट ( about 5 % ).
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15, 1951–August 14, 1980 ) was the estranged husband and manager of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten, whom he murdered before killing खुद the वही दिन.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic कविता from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five स्वतंत्र Sumerian poems about 'bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), किंग of Uruk.
Four of ये were used as source material for a combined epic in Akkadian.
इस first combined epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th century bc and is titled बाद its incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing सब Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have बच.
The later `` Standard babylonian '' version तिथियाँ from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` he who Saw the Deep '' ).
fragments of लगभग two thirds of इस longer, twelve-tablet version have महरूम बरामद.
Some of the best नक़ल यहूद discovered in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh और Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the लोगों of Uruk.
Together, they journey to the Cedar पहाड़ to defeat humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later वे kill the Bull of स्वर्ग, जिससे the goddess Ishtar sends to punish gilgamesh for spurning her अग्रिम.
As a punishment for ये actions, the gods वाक्य Enkidu to death.
the second हाफ of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to learn the secret of eternal जीवन, gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous यात्रा.
He learns that `` The life that you are seeking you will never find.
When the देवताओं created man वे allotted to him death, लकिन life they retained in their own keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the अक्कादी version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death, because of his great building projects, and उसके खाता of what utnapishtim बताई him happened दौरान the flood.
The story has been translated into many different भाषाएं, and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A eukaryote ( or ) is an organism जिनकी कोशिकाएं contain complex structures enclosed within membranes.
eukaryotes may अधिक formally be referred to as the taxon eukarya or Eukaryota.
The defining membrane-bound structure कि sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus, or nuclear envelope, within which the genetic material is carried.
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which comes इससे the Greek ( eu, `` शुभ '' ) and ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ).
सबसे eukaryotic cells भी contain other membrane-bound organelles ऐसे as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus.
All विशाल complex जीवों हैं eukaryotes, including animals, plants and fungi.
The group also includes many unicellular organisms.
Cell division in eukaryotes is different from that in organisms without a nucleus ( Prokaryote ).
It involves separating the duplicated chromosomes, through movements directed by microtubules.
वहीँ are two types of division processes.
In समसूत्रण, one cell divides to produce दो genetically identical कोशिकाएं.
In meiosis, जिससे is required in sexual reproduction, one diploid cell ( having दो instances of each chromosome, one from each parent ) undergoes recombination of each pair of parental chromosomes, and then दो चरण of कोशिका प्रभाग, resulting in four haploid कोशिकाएं ( gametes ).
Each gamete has just one complement of chromosomes, each a unique mix of the corresponding pair of parental chromosomes.
Eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, and so makes up one of the three domains of life.
The दो other domains, Bacteria and Archaea, are prokaryotes and have none of the above सुविधाएँ.
Eukaryotes represent a छोटा minority of all जीना things ; भी in a human body there are 10 times अधिक microbes than इंसान कोशिकाएं.
However, due to their much larger size their collective worldwide biomass is अनुमानित at about equal to that of prokaryotes.
वे हैं माना to have first developed approximately 1.6–2.1 billion years ago.
The use of अंतरजाल services or software with अंतरजाल access to defraud victims or to otherwise लो लाभ of them, for उदाहरण by चोरी personal सूचना, which can even सीसे to identity theft.
A very common form of Internet fraud is the distribution of rogue security software.
Internet services can be प्रयुक्त to present बेईमान solicitations to prospective victims, to conduct fraudulent transactions, or to transmit the proceeds of fraud to financial institutions or to others कनेक्ट with the scheme.
Internet fraud can occur in chat कक्ष, email, message boards, or on वेबसाइटों.
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led security मिशन in Afghanistan कि was established by the संयुक्त Nations Security Council in December 2001 by रेज़ोल्यूशन 1386, as envisaged by the Bonn अनुबंध.
Its main purpose is to ट्रैन the Afghan National Security Forces ( ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan in rebuilding key government institutions but is भी engaged in the 2001-present war with बागी groups.
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul and surrounding areas from the Taliban, al Qaeda और factional warlords, so as to allow for the establishment of the अफगान Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai.
In October 2003, the UN Security Council authorized the expansion of the isaf mission throughout अफगानिस्तान, and ISAF subsequently expanded the mission in four प्रमुख stages over the whole of the country.
From 2006 to 2011, isaf had महरूम involved in increasingly more intensive कॉम्बैट operations in southern and पूर्वी Afghanistan.
Troop contributors include from the United States, संयुक्त Kingdom, NATO सदस्य states और a क्रमांक of अन्य देशों.
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly, with the United States, United Kingdom, and कनाडा sustaining the majority of casualties in intensive combat operations, with other contributors sustaining significantly less.
as of early 2010, there were at least 700 military bases inside Afghanistan but more were expected to be built in the coming years.
About 400 of ये यहूद used by American‐led NATO शक्तियां and 300 by ANSF.
कोका ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that is obtained इससे the leaves of the coca plant.
The name comes from `` coca '' and the alkaloid प्रत्यय -ine, forming कोका.
it is a stimulant, an appetite suppressant, and a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, cocaine acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, भी known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( ट्राई ).
it is addictive because of its प्रभाव on the mesolimbic reward pathway.
Unlike सबसे अणुओं, cocaine has pockets साथ both high hydrophilic and lipophilic efficiency, violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
This causes it to cross the blood–brain barrier far better than other psychoactive chemicals and may even induce blood-brain अवरोध breakdown.
It is illegal to possess, produce, or distribute cocaine लिये non-medicinal and non-government-sanctioned purposes in लगभग every country.
पूरे beef tri-tip rump, roasted medium rare
The tri-tip is a cut of beef from the bottom sirloin primal cut.
It is a small triangular muscle, usually 1.5 to 2.5 lbs. ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef.
The scientific नाम of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the संयोजी tissue covering the quadriceps femoris, भी पुकारा quadriceps extensor, a group of four muscles जिससे in turn insert in the patella, or घुटना cap of the animal.
Willmar is a city in, and the county seat of, Kandiyohi County, Minnesota, United States.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 19,610 at the 2010 census.
willmar रै been assigned zip कोड 56201 by the United States Postal Service.
u.s. रूट 12 and 71 and Minnesota State Highways 23 and 40 are four of the main रूट in the city.
The Speaker of the United States House of प्रतिनिधि ( or Speaker of the House ) is the पीठासीन officer of the chamber.
The office was established in 1789 by आलेख i, Section 2 of the United States संविधान, which states in भाग, `` The House of Representatives shall chuse their स्पीकर... ''
The current स्पीकर is जॉन Boehner, a रिपब्लिकन who represents ओहियो 's 8th congressional district.
The संविधान does not require that the Speaker be a Member of Congress, लकिन no non-member रै ever been elected to the office.
The Speaker is second in the United States presidential line of succession, after the वाइस President and ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate.
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments, in which the office of Speaker is माना non-partisan, in the United States the Speaker of the House is a leadership position and the office-holder actively works to set the majority पार्टी 's legislative agenda.
The Speaker usually does नहीं personally preside over debates, बजाय delegating the duty to members of the House इससे the बहुमत party.
Aside from कर्तव्य relating to heading the House और the बहुमत political party, the स्पीकर also performs administrative and प्रक्रियात्मक कृत्यों, and represents उसके or her Congressional ज़िला.
A bicycle frame is the main component of a सायकिल, on to which wheels और other components are fitted.
The modern and सबसे common frame design लिये an कतरा bicycle is based on the safety bicycle, और consists of two triangles, a main triangle and a paired rear triangle.
This is known as the diamond फ़्रेम.
Frames हैं required to be strong, stiff and लाइट, which वे do by combining different सामग्री and shapes.
`` सरल gravity pendulum '' मॉडल assumes no friction or air resistance.
an exemplar animation of a pendulum प्रर्दशित the velocity और acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a weight suspended from a so that it can swing freely.
When a pendulum is displaced sideways from its resting equilibrium position, it is subject to a restoring force due to गम्भीरता that will accelerate it वापस toward the equilibrium position.
When released, the restoring force combined with the pendulum 's द्रव्यमान causes it to oscillate about the equilibrium position, swinging back and forth.
The time for one complete cycle, a left swing and a right swing, is called the period.
A pendulum swings साथ a specific period which depends ( mainly ) on इसके length.
इससे इसके डिस्कवरी around 1602 by गैलीलियो Galilei the regular motion of pendulums was used for timekeeping, और थी the संसार 's most accurate timekeeping technology until the 1930s.
Pendulums are used to regulate pendulum clocks, and are used in वैज्ञानिक यंत्र such as accelerometers and seismometers.
Historically they यहूद used as gravimeters to measure the त्वरण of gravity in geophysical surveys, and even as a मानक of length.
the word 'pendulum ' is new Latin, from the Latin pendulus, meaning 'hanging '.
The simple गम्भीरता pendulum is an idealized mathematical model of a pendulum.
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the end of a massless cord suspended from a, without friction.
When दिए an initial push, it होगा swing back और forth at a constant amplitude.
Real pendulums are subject to friction and air drag, so the amplitude of their swings declines.
The First Battle of सांड Run, also known as First Manassas ( the name used by Confederate forces ), was fought on जुलाई 21, 1861, in Prince William County, वर्जिनिया, निकट the city of Manassas.
It थी the पहला major land बैटल of the American सिविल War.
बस months after the start of the war at Fort Sumter, the Northern public clamored for a march against the confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia, which they expected to लाओ an early समाप्त to the rebellion.
Yielding to political pressure, Brig. gen. Irvin McDowell led his unseasoned संघ Army आरपार Bull Run against the equally inexperienced Confederate Army of Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped निकट manassas Junction.
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on the Confederate left was poorly चलाया by his officers and मेन ; nevertheless, the Confederates, who had been planning to attack the Union left flank, found themselves at an आरंभिक disadvantage.
Confederate reinforcements under ब्रिगेडियर. Gen. Joseph E. Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah घाटी by रेलरोड और the course of the battle quickly changed.
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from the Virginia Military Institute, Thomas J. Jackson, stood their ground and जैक्सन received his famous nickname, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack, और as the संघ सैनिकों began withdrawing अंतर्गत fire, many panicked and it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran बगैर अनुक्रम in the direction of Washington, D.C.
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and many casualties, और realized the war was going to be much longer and bloodier than either had anticipated.
Thunderstorm near Garajau, Madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere, to the degree that it is hot or cold, wet or शुष्क, calm or stormy, clear or cloudy.
Most मौसम phenomena occur in the troposphere, बस below the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity, whereas जलवायु is the term for the average atmospheric conditions over longer periods of time.
When used without qualification, `` weather '' is समझा to be the weather of Earth.
Weather is driven by एयर pressure ( temperature and moisture ) differences between एक place and another.
ये दबाव and temperature मतभेद can occur due to the sun angle at any particular spot, which varies by latitude from the tropics.
The strong temperature contrast between polar और तीव्र एयर gives वृद्धि to the जेट stream.
मौसम systems in the mid-latitudes, such as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet स्ट्रीम flow.
Because the Earth 's axis is tilted relative to its orbital plane, sunlight is incident at different कोण at different times of the year.
On Earth 's surface, temperatures usually दायरा ±40 °c ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually.
Over हज़ारों of सालो, परिवर्तन in Earth 's orbit affect the राशि और distribution of solar energy received by the Earth और influence long-term climate और global जलवायु change.
Surface temperature मतभेद in फेरे कारण pressure differences.
Higher altitudes हैं cooler than lower altitudes due to differences in compressional heating.
Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to predict the state of the atmosphere for a future समय and a given location.
The atmosphere is a chaotic system, so small changes to one part of the system can grow to have large प्रभाव on the system as a whole.
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout इंसान history, and there is evidence that human activity such as कृषि and industry has inadvertently modified weather patterns.
Studying how the weather works on other ग्रह has been helpful in understanding how weather works on Earth.
A famous लैंडमार्क in the Solar System, Jupiter 's Great Red Spot, is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed for at least 300 years.
However, weather is not limited to planetary लाशें.
a star 's corona is constantly being lost to space, creating कया is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
The movement of mass ejected from the Sun is known as the solar wind.
कैटी Perry is an American singer-songwriter from Santa Barbara, California.
वो हस्ताक्षरित with Capitol Records.
Perry has released three studio albums, including her debut Christian effort Katy Hudson, One of the Boys, and Teenage Dream.
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked off with the massive chart success of her debut single `` I Kissed a Girl ``.
During her career, Perry रै महरूम nominated for numerous major music awards, primarily for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys.
the following is a सूची of sovereign states and territories जहाँ English is an official language or language of सरकारी.
In 2012, वहीँ were 88 राज्य in total ( 60 sovereign states और 28 non-sovereign राज्य ).
In many countries English is the प्रबल language, but करता not have आधिकारिक औकात.
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया, English is spoken by the vast majority of the population and is the only language used in government institutions, but Australia does not have an official language.
the मामला is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States, though many states और regions within the U.S. do have English as an official language.
English is the प्रबल language of New जीलैंड and an official भाषा of Canada ( साथ साथ French ), India ( साथ with Hindi and several other languages ), Ireland ( along with Irish ), and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ).
English is the sole official भाषा of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Commonwealth Games.
English is one of the official भाषाएं of the संयुक्त Nations, the European Union and the International ओलम्पिक Committee.
अनेक of these countries हैं current or former colonies or dependencies of the United किंगडम ( see भी British Empire ), or of the United States, itself a पूर्व colony of the UK.
Notable exceptions शामिल Rwanda, जिससे was a former Belgian colony and Eritrea, which was an Italian उपनिवेश where the अंग्रेजों Empire spanned its control only in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's linguistic picture is complex.
according to the Constitution of India, `` हिंदी in the Devanagari script '' is the आधिकारिक language of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however, अंग्रेज़ी is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal laws and Supreme अदालत decisions and ( along with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament.
English is प्रयुक्त almost exclusively for higher शिक्षा, business और विज्ञान.
पाठ्यक्रम in majority of the schools are सिखाया exclusively in अंग्रेज़ी.
अंग्रेज़ी is extensively प्रयुक्त for administrative purposes in India.
India is the second-largest english-speaking देश in the world by number of speakers, बाद the United States.
As such, many consider English to be the de facto आधिकारिक language of India.
See Official languages of India.
The linguistic makeup of Pakistan is similarly complex.
While the national language is Urdu, English is an आधिकारिक language and used in कारोबार, government and law.
English is a compulsory भाषा in schools.
All स्कूल पाठ्यक्रम are taught in English.
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking देश in the संसार by population.
Southern Cone (, ) is a geographic region composed of the southernmost areas of South America, south of the Tropic of मकर.
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil, in terms of political geography the Southern cone has traditionally comprised Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay.
In the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina, चिली और Uruguay, bounded on the north by the states of ब्राज़ील, Paraguay, Bolivia and Peru, on the वेस्ट by the प्रशांत Ocean, and south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High life expectancy, the highest Human विकास Index of Latin अमेरिका, high Standard of living, significant participation in the global markets and the emerging economy of its members make the Southern Cone the most prosperous macro-region in South America.
For multi-event athletic competitions see Track और Field Competitions, section `` Meetings ''.
Meetings are sometimes आयोजित around conference टेबल.
in a meeting, two or अधिक people आइये together to discuss one or more विषय, often in a औपचारिक setting.
An official खेल in baseball, also sometimes पुकारा a regulation game, is a game that has progressed परे the point at which it can be considered complete if necessary.
This is approximately the halfway point of the game.
In the case of inclement weather, कोई game which रै reached this point may be stopped and shortened as needed, साथ the परिणाम being final, and all records and आंकडे counted.
A game which has not reached this point before होने stopped is either considered a suspended game ( to be जारी at a later date from the point of stoppage ), or is simply canceled and replayed from the प्रारंभ.
( This depends on the rules of each व्यक्तिगत league. )
In either case, no statistics are counted जबतक the खेल becomes official.
Since सबसे professional baseball खेल are nine पारी long, the पांचवां inning is प्रयुक्त as the दहलीज for an official game.
If the visiting team is अग्रणी, or the game is tied, the end of the fifth inning marks this पाइंट.
If the घर team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the score, and theoretically would not need its half of the fifth inning, तब 41⁄2 पारी ( i.e., the मध्य of the fifth ) is considered an official game.
The game is भी considered official if the घर team scores to take the lead in the bottom of the पांचवां inning, since the game would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth.
In nearly all cases, the `` official game '' औकात is used to determine whether a rain check होगा be सम्मानित लिये fans holding टिकटें.
If a game is प्रारंभ लकिन करता not reach the point of becoming आधिकारिक, fans हैं entitled to a new ticket for the make-up game or ( in most cases ) कोई other available game of उनके choice.
If a game is halted after it becomes official, the game is simply shortened and no बरसात check is given.
The `` आधिकारिक game '' statistic received some attention during the 1995 season, when Cal Ripken, Jr. was approaching the record for consecutive खेल played, previously held by Lou gehrig.
विशाल numbers were hung on the side of the b & O Warehouse at Oriole Park at camden गज to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak.
प्रत्येक day, a new number was unfurled during the fifth inning after each game had become official ( since the statistic would नहीं have counted if the game had been stopped before that पाइंट ).
A similar practice has been used to गिनती down toward the demolition of अनेक stadiums ( सहित Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003, Busch Memorial स्टेडियम in St. Louis in 2005, and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became official, the team would unveil a नई ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be निभाई in the स्टेडियम.
A telephone number or फोन number is a अनुक्रम of अंक used to call from एक telephone line to another in a public switched टेलीफोन network.
When telephone numbers were invented, they were short — as few as एक, two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard operator.
As फोन प्रणालियों have grown and interconnected to encompass the world, telephone numbers have become longer.
In addition to telephones, they now access other devices, such as computers and फैक्स machines.
The number contains the information necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint लिये the telephone call.
Each such endpoint must have a unique number within the public switched telephone network.
सबसे countries उपयोग fixed length numbers ( लिये normal lines at least ) and इसलिए the number of endpoints determines the necessary length of the telephone number.
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a set of shorter संख्याएँ for the endpoints most often प्रयुक्त.
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers are automatically अनूदित to unique telephone संख्याएँ before the call can be connected.
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, and 1-1-2 होने the Emergency Services संख्याएँ for China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and श्री Lanka ; Canada और the United States ; Australia ; the United Kingdom, Ireland, South Africa, Poland, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, मोरक्को, Macao, Bahrain, Qatar, Bangladesh, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, हांग Kong, Malaysia, Mauritius, सिंगापुर, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union, respectively. )
Many systems also allow calls within a local area to be made without dialing the local area code.
For example, a phone number in North America होगा start साथ three numbers ( such as 661 ), which is the area कोड, followed by seven digits split into sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ), which is the local number.
Some areas अभी have अनिवार्य ten-digit dialing in place, even for local calls.
Most टेलीफोन networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and secure phone networks ) हैं interconnected in the international telephone network, where the format of telephone संख्याएँ is standardized by itu-t in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies that the entire number should be 15 digits or shorter, and begin with a देश prefix.
For सबसे countries, इस is followed by an area code or city code and the सदस्य number, which might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an international telephone number in लिखने or print, starting with a plus चिह्न ( `` + '' ) and the country code.
जब calling an international number from a fixed line phone, the + must be replaced with the international call prefix chosen by the country the call is being made from.
Some mobile phones allow the + to be entered directly.
the format and allocation of local phone numbers are controlled by each nation 's respective government, either सीधे or by sponsored organizations ( such as nanpa overseen by NeuStar inc. ).
Before a टेलीफोन call is connected, the telephone number must be dialed by the calling पार्टी or Caller.
The पुकारा party might have equipment कि presents कॉलर ID before the call is answered.
A संग्रहण agency is a business that pursues भुगतान of debts owed by individuals or व्यवसायों.
Most collection एजेंसियों operate as agents of लेनदारों and collect debts for a fee or percentage of the total amount owed.
There are many types of संग्रहण agencies.
First-party agencies हैं oftentimes subsidiaries of the original कम्पनी the कर्ज़ is owed to.
Third-party agencies are separate companies contracted by a company to collect debts on their निमित्त for a शुल्क.
Debt खरीदार खरीदें the कर्ज़ at a percentage of its मान, then attempt to collect it.
Each country रै its own rules and regulations regarding them.
Cannabis flower with visible trichomes
Cannabis, also ज्ञात as marijuana ( from the Mexican Spanish marihuana ), और by अन्य names, is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
Pharmacologically, the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one of 483 known compounds in the संयंत्र, including at तनिक 84 other cannabinoids, such as cannabidiol ( सीबीडी ), cannabinol ( CBN ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
and cannabigerol ( cbg ).
This is a सूची of American football quarterbacks जो have प्रारंभ for the Washington Redskins, as well as its predecessors the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
The Washington Redskins franchise थी originally founded in बोस्टन, Massachusetts as the Boston Braves, named after the local baseball franchise.
The नाम was बदला the following year to the Redskins.
In 1937, the मताधिकार moved to Washington, D.C.
of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks, two have महरूम inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame : सैमी Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen.
Robert Griffin III 2012-present
Jason Campbell 2005-2009
चिह्नित Burnell 2004-2007
Mark Rypien 1986-1993
Joe Theismann 1974-1985
Sammy Baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ), popularly known as Delta Force, is one of the United States ' चार गुपचुप tier-one counter-terrorism and Special मिशन इकाई.
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by the Department of Defense but has since महरूम officially re-designated the फौज Compartmented Elements ( इक्का ).
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively supported by USASOC, it falls under the operational control of the Joint खास Operations कमांड.
Delta Force and its Navy बंटवारा, the Naval Special Warfare Development Group, हैं the संयुक्त States military 's primary counter-terrorism units.
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism, direct action, and national intervention operations, although it is an extremely versatile group capable of conducting many types of covert missions, including, लकिन not limited to, hostage rescues and छापे.
the Central Intelligence Agency 's highly गुपचुप Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with – और रंगरूटों – operators इससे Delta फ़ोर्स.
अल्फा decay is one example type of radioactive decay, in जिससे an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, और thereby transforms ( or 'decays ' ) into an atom with a mass number 4 less and atomic क्रमांक 2 less.
Many अन्य types of decays are possible.
Radioactive decay, also known as नाभिकीय क्षय or radioactivity, is the process by जिससे a केंद्रक of an unstable अणु loses energy by emitting particles of ionizing विकिरण.
a material that spontaneously emits this kind of radiation — which includes the emission of energetic अल्फा particles, beta particles, और गामा rays — is considered रेडियोसक्रिय.
There are many different types of radioactive decay ( देखिए table नीचे ).
A decay, or loss of उर्जा, results when an atom with one type of nucleus, पुकारा the parent radionuclide, transforms to an atom साथ a केंद्रक in a different राज्य, or to a different nucleus containing अलग संख्याएँ of protons and neutrons.
Either of these products is named the daughter nuclide.
in some decays the parent and daughter are अलग chemical elements, और thus the decay process results in nuclear transmutation ( creation of an atom of a new element ).
The first decay processes to be discovered यहूद अल्फा decay, beta decay, and gamma decay.
अल्फा decay occurs when the nucleus ejects an alpha particle ( helium nucleus ).
इस is the most आम process of emitting nucleons, but in rarer प्रकार of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the process called cluster decay ).
Beta क्षय occurs when the केंद्रक emits an electron or positron और a प्रकार of न्यूट्रिनो, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way around.
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, converting a प्रोटॉन into a neutron ( electron capture ).
All of these प्रक्रियाओं result in nuclear transmutation.
by contrast, there मौजूद radioactive decay processes that do not result in transmutation.
The उर्जा of an उत्साहित केंद्रक may be emitted as a gamma ray in गामा decay, or used to eject an orbital electron by interaction with the excited केंद्रक in a process called internal conversion.
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, और this परिणाम in a change in an तत्व from one समस्थानिक to another.
One type of radioactive decay results in उत्पाद which are not defined, लकिन appear in a range of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus.
This decay is called spontaneous fission.
This क्षय happens when a विशाल unstable nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( and occasionally three ) smaller daughter nuclei, and usually emits gamma rays, neutrons, or other particles as a consequence.
रेडियोसक्रिय decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) process at the स्तर of single अणु, in that, according to quantum theory, it is impossible to predict when a particular atom होगा decay.
However, the chance कि a given atom होगा क्षय is constant over time.
For a large number of atoms, the decay रेट लिये the collection is computable from the measured decay constants of the न्यूक्लाइड ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ).
Waxing is a form of semi-permanent बाल removal which removes the hair from the root.
New बाल will नहीं grow back in the previously waxed area for two to eight सप्ताह, हालांकि some people होगा start to see regrowth in only a week.
Almost any area of the body can be waxed, including eyebrows, face, बिकिनी area, legs, arms, back, abdomen और feet.
There are many प्रकार of waxing suitable for removing unwanted hair.
Strip waxing is accomplished by spreading a wax thinly over the skin.
A cloth or paper strip is then pressed on the top और ripped off the दिशा of बाल growth.
इस removes the wax साथ with the hair.
Strip मोम can also be made at home using lemon रस, जल, शुगर and honey.
hot waxing utilizes Hot wax ( as opposed to strip wax ).
In this case, the मोम is applied somewhat thickly and साथ no cloth or paper स्ट्रिप्स.
The wax तब hardens जब it cools, thus allowing the easy removal by a therapist without the सहायता of cloths.
इस waxing method is very beneficial to people who have sensitive skin.
Wall painting ( 1st century ad ) from Pompeii depicting a multigenerational banquet
प्राचीन Roman culture existed throughout the almost 1200-year history of the civilization of Ancient Rome.
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic, later the रोमन Empire, which, at its peak, covered an area from Lowland Scotland और मोरक्को to the euphrates.
Life in ancient रोम revolved around the city of रोम, its famed seven पहाड़ियाँ, and its स्मारकीय structures such as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the कोलोसियम ), the Forum of Trajan, and the Pantheon.
The नगर also had several theaters, gymnasiums, and अनेक taverns, baths, and brothels.
Throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control, आवासीय वास्तुकला ranged from very modest houses to country villas, and in the capital city of रोम, वहीँ were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill, from which the word palace is derived.
The vast majority of the population lived in the city center, packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ).
The city of Rome थी the largest megalopolis of कि time, with a population कि may well have exceeded one million people, with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a low समाप्त estimate of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the city 's jurisdiction lived in innumerable शहरी centers, with population of at least 10,000 and अनेक military settlements, a very ऊँची रेट of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy, which था an estimated rate of urbanization of 32 %, the same rate of urbanization of England in 1800.
Most Roman towns and cities had a forum, मंदिरों and the same type of buildings, on a smaller scale, as मिला in Rome.
The विशाल urban जनसांख्यिकी required an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical task, including acquiring, transporting, storing and distribution of food for रोम और other urban centers.
Italian खेतो supplied vegetables and fruits, but fish and मांस were luxuries.
Aqueducts were निर्मित to bring जल to urban centers और wine and oil were imported from hispania, Gaul and Africa.
वहीँ was a बहुत large amount of कॉमर्स between the provinces of the Roman Empire, चूंकि its transportation technology थी very efficient.
The average costs of हस्तांतरण and the technology were comparable with 18th-century Europe.
The later city of Rome did not fill the स्पेस within its ancient Aurelian walls until after 1870.
अस्सी प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी under the jurisdiction of ancient रोम lived in the countryside in settlements साथ less than 10 thousand निवासियों.
जमींदार generally resided in cities and their estates were left in the परवाह of farm managers.
The दुर्दशा of ग्रामीण स्लेव was generally worse than their counterparts working in urban aristocratic households.
to stimulate a higher labor productivity most जमींदार freed a विशाल number of slaves and many received wages.
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people जिया in one small farm hut in Egypt, while six families owned a single olive tree. ''.
Such a rural पर्यावरण continued to induce migration of जनसांख्यिकी to urban centers until the early 2nd century, when the urban population रोका growing और started to decline.
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC, private यूनानी संस्कृति was increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists.
by the time of Augustus, cultured Greek household slaves taught the Roman young ( sometimes even the girls ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East.
यूनानी sculptures adorned Hellenistic landscape gardening on the Palatine or in the विला, or were imitated in रोमन sculpture yards by Greek slaves.
the रोमन cuisine preserved in the cookery books ascribed to apicius is essentially Greek.
रोमन लेखक disdained लैटिन for a cultured यूनानी style.
Only in law and governance was the Italic nature of रोम 's accretive culture supreme.
Against इस human background, both the urban and rural setting, one of history 's most influential civilizations took आकार, leaving behind a cultural विरासत that survives in भाग today.
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf, Jr. ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर golfer.
कांच bottles ( for cucumber slices ) on shipping pallets
A Soviet mayonnaise jar
a modern `` French Kilner '' jar
Glass production involves दो main विधि – the float glass process, which produces sheet कांच, और glassblowing which produces बोतलों and other containers.
a ऋतु is a subdivision of the year, marked by परिवर्तन in weather, ecology, और hours of daylight.
Seasons परिणाम from the yearly क्रान्ति of the Earth around the सूर्य और the tilt of the धरती 's axis relative to the प्लेन of revolution.
in temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by परिवर्तन in the intensity of sunlight कि reaches the धरती 's सतह, विसंगतियाँ of जिससे may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and पौधे to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern गोलार्ध is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the सूर्य.
The same is true of the southern hemisphere in November, दिसम्बर and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth कि causes the Sun to be उच्चतर in the sky during the summer months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to मौसमी lag, June, July and August हैं the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December, January और February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
in temperate और subpolar regions, generally चार calendar -based सीज़न ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) और winter ( hibernal ).
however, ecologists mostly use a six season model for शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) और late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons साथ साथ the traditional four.
hot regions have two or तीन seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season and the शुष्क season, and in some तीव्र areas, a cool or mild season.
in कुछ parts of the world, खास `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on महत्वपूर्ण events such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological seasons
The four calendar seasons, depicted in an ancient Roman mosaic इससे Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14, 1861 ) was the bombardment and आत्मसमर्पण of Fort Sumter, near Charleston, South Carolina, that started the American Civil युद्ध.
following declarations of secession by seven Southern states, South Carolina demanded that the U.S. Army लापरवाही its facilities in Charleston Harbor.
On दिसम्बर 26, 1860, U.S. प्रमुख Robert Anderson surreptitiously moved his small command from the indefensible फोर्ट Moultrie on Sullivan 's Island to Fort Sumter, a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of चार्ल्सटन हार्बर.
an attempt by u.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson, using the निहत्थे merchant ship Star of the West, failed when it was fired upon by shore batteries on January 9, 1861.
दक्षिण Carolina authorities then seized all संघीय प्रॉपर्टी in the Charleston area, मगर for फोर्ट Sumter.
During the early महीने of 1861, the हालात around Fort Sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
In March, Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the first general अधिकारी of the newly formed Confederate States of America, was placed in command of Confederate forces in चार्ल्सटन.
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of बैटरी around Charleston harbor aimed at फोर्ट Sumter.
Conditions in the fort grew dire as the संघ soldiers rushed to complete the installation of additional guns.
Anderson थी short of men, food, और supplies.
the resupply of Fort Sumter became the first crisis of the administration of President अब्राहम lincoln.
He notified the Governor of दक्षिण Carolina, Francis W. Pickens, that he was sending supply ships, which resulted in an ultimatum from the confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately.
Major Anderson refused to surrender.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12, the Confederates bombarded the fort from तोपखाने batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the Union garrison returned fire, वे were significantly outgunned and, after 34 hours, प्रमुख Anderson सहमत to evacuate.
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this engagement, हालांकि a gun explosion during the आत्मसमर्पण ceremonies on April 14 caused two Union deaths.
Following the battle, there was widespread support from both North and South for further military action.
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 स्वयंसेवक to suppress the विद्रोह resulted in an अतिरिक्त four southern slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy.
The Civil युद्ध had begun.
3G, short for third पीढी, is the third generation of मोबाईल दूरसंचार technology.
3G telecommunication networks support services that provide an information transfer rate of at least 200 kbit/s.
However, many सेवाएं advertised as 3G provide higher speed than the minimum technical requirements for a 3g service.
Recent 3G releases, often denoted 3.5G and 3.75g, also provide मोबाईल broadband अभिगम of several Mbit/s to smartphones and mobile modems in laptop computers.
3G पाता application in wireless voice telephony, mobile Internet access, fixed बेतार Internet अभिगम, video calls and mobile TV.
`` Mazel Tov ! '' written on a वाइन कांच tag
Traditionally, after the groom breaks the glass, the guests चिल्लाओ `` Mazel Tov ! ``.
A जन्मदिवस cake, iced with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is प्रायः done in Israel.
Here the phrase is written in Hebrew cursive.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : `` מזל טוב '', Hebrew : `` mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` शुभ luck '' ) is a phrase used to express congratulations for a happy and significant अवसर or event.
Hepatitis C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the liver, caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ).
The infection is often asymptomatic, but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to cirrhosis, which is generally apparent after many years.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis होगा go on to develop liver विफलता, जिगर कर्कट or life-threatening esophageal और gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact associated with intravenous ड्रग use, poorly sterilized medical equipment and transfusions.
An estimated 130–200 million people विश्वव्यापी are संक्रमित with.
the existence of ( originally `` non- A non- B hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s and proven in 1989.
तभी infects इंसानो और chimpanzees.
The virus persists in the liver in about 85 % of those संक्रमित.
This persistent infection can be treated साथ दवा : the standard therapy is a combination of peginterferon and ribavirin, with either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of लोगों treated are cured.
Those जो develop cirrhosis or liver cancer may require a जिगर प्रत्यारोपण.
is the अग्रणी कारण of liver transplantation, though the वायरस प्रायः recurs after transplantation.
no vaccine against is उपलब्धियाँ.
A flexible spending account ( fsa ), also known as a flexible बिता arrangement, is एक of a number of tax-advantaged financial accounts that can be set up through a cafeteria plan of an employer in the United States.
An fsa allows an कर्मचारी to set aside a portion of earnings to अदा for qualified expenses as established in the cafeteria plan, most commonly for medical खर्च but often लिये dependent care or अन्य expenses.
Money deducted from an employee 's pay into an FSA is not subject to payroll taxes, resulting in substantial payroll tax savings.
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is that funds not प्रयुक्त by the end of the plan year are lost to the employee, known as the `` use it or lose it '' rule.
The most common type of flexible spending account, the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ), is similar to a health बचत account ( hsa ) or a health reimbursement account ( HRA ).
However, while HSAs and HRAs हैं almost exclusively used as components of a उपभोक्ता driven health care plan, medical FSAs are commonly offered with more traditional health plans as well.
In addition, funds in a health savings account are नहीं खोया जब the plan year is over, unlike funds in an FSA.
Paper forms or an FSA डेबिट कार्ड, also known as a Flexcard, may be प्रयुक्त to access the account funds.
टेनेसी ( ) ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Southeastern United राज्य.
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive and the 17th सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north, North Carolina to the east, Georgia, Alabama, और Mississippi to the दक्षिण, and Arkansas और Missouri to the west.
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern part of the state, and the Mississippi River forms the राज्य 's western border.
Tennessee 's पूंजी and second largest नगर is Nashville, which has a population of 609,644.
Memphis is the state 's largest city, with a population of 652,050.
the state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga संघ, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the first constitutional government west of the Appalachians.
What is now Tennessee was initially भाग of North Carolina, and later part of the Southwest Territory.
Tennessee थी admitted to the Union as the 16th state on June 1, 1796.
टेनेसी was the पिछला राज्य to leave the संघ and join the confederacy at the outbreak of the u.S. Civil War in 1861, and the first state to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the युद्ध.
टेनेसी furnished more soldiers for the confederate Army than any other state, and more soldiers for the Union Army than any अन्य Southern state.
In the 20th century, Tennessee transitioned from an agrarian economy to a more diversified अर्थव्यवस्था, aided at times by federal entities ऐसे as the Tennessee Valley Authority.
In the early 1940s, the city of Oak Ridge was established to house the Manhattan प्रोजेक्ट 's uranium enrichment facilities, helping to build the world 's first atomic bomb.
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of many forms of American popular music, including rock and roll, blues, country, and rockabilly.
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by अनेक to be the जन्मस्थान of the blues, with संगीतकारों such as W.C. Handy performing in its clubs as early as 1909.
मेम्फिस was भी घर to Sun Records, where musicians such as Elvis Presley, Isaac हेज़, जॉनी Cash, Carl Perkins, Jerry Lee Lewis, Roy Orbison, and Charlie Rich began their recording careers, and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s.
The 1927 Victor recording सत्र in Bristol generally mark the beginning of the country music genre और the rise of the Grand Ole Opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the देश music recording उद्योग.
Three bricks and mortar संग्रहालय recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing various forms of popular music : the Memphis Rock N ' आत्मा Museum, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville, and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson.
In addition, the Rockabilly हॉल of Fame, an online site recognizing the विकास of rockabilly in which टेनेसी निभाई a crucial role, is based in Nashville.
टेनेसी 's major उद्योग include agriculture, manufacturing, और tourism.
Poultry, soybeans, and चौपायों are the state 's primary agricultural products, and major manufacturing exports include chemicals, transportation equipment, and electrical उपकरण.
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the nation 's most visited national park, is headquartered in the eastern part of the राज्य, और a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the tennessee-north Carolina border.
Other प्रमुख पर्यटक attractions शामिल the Tennessee एक्वेरियम in Chattanooga, the Sunsphere in Knoxville, Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, the Parthenon, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum, and ryman Auditorium in Nashville, and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis.
एक design रूपांतर of a मुर्गा रिंग.
A cock रिंग is a ring कि can be placed around a man 's penis, usually at the base, primarily to slow the flow of blood इससे the erect penile tissue, thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time.
Cock rings can be worn around just the penis or both the penis and scrotum, or just the scrotum अलोन, though this is प्रायः called a testicle cuff.
Rings can be made of a variety of different materials, सबसे commonly leather, रबर, or silicone, though नायलॉन and metal are also used either as the main component or भाग of the closure.
The term cock ring is sometimes used as a synonym for a प्रिंस Albert piercing, a piercing of the penis that is usually, though not always, a metal ring.
जब प्रयुक्त in cases of erectile dysfunction they हैं known by various names such as `` erection ring '' and `` tension ring ''.
The मुख्यालय of Major League Baseball at 245 Park Avenue, Midtown Manhattan, New York City, USA.
Major लीग Baseball ( MLB ) is a professional baseball लीग, consisting of teams that play in the National League और the अमरीकी League.
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball, after 100 years as separate legal entities.
MLB constitutes एक of the major professional sports leagues of the United राज्य and Canada.
It is composed of 30 teams — 29 in the United States and एक in Canada.
Teams in MLB play 162 खेल each season over six months ( April through September ).
Five teams in each लीग advance to a four-round postseason tournament कि culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven-games championship श्रेणी between the दो league champions which dates to 1903.
The organization oversees many minor-league baseball leagues जिससे operate about 240 teams संबद्ध with the major-league clubs.
With the International Baseball Federation, the लीग भी manages the अंतरराष्ट्रीय World Baseball Classic tournament.
MLB has the highest season attendance of any खेल league in the संसार with nearly 75 million spectators in 2012.
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. state located on the अटलांटिक Coast in the Mid-Atlantic प्रदेश of the United States.
It is bordered to the south and west by मेरीलैंड, to the northeast by New Jersey, और to the उत्तर by पेन्सिलवेनिया.
The state takes its नाम इससे Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, an English nobleman और Virginia 's पहला colonial governor, after जिसको कया is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named.
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula और is the दूसरी smallest, the छठे least populous, but the sixth most densely populated of the fifty United States.
Delaware is divided into three counties.
इससे north to south, these three counties हैं New Castle, Kent, and Sussex.
While the दक्षिणी two काउंटी have historically महरूम predominantly agricultural, New Castle County has been more industrialized.
पहले its coastline was छान by europeans in the 16th सदी, Delaware was inhabited by several groups of Native Americans, including the lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by डच traders at Zwaanendael, located near the उपस्थित town of Lewes, in 1631.
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the अमरीकी Revolution and on December 7, 1787, became the first state to ratify the Constitution of the United States, thereby becoming known as The First State.
उर्जा परिवर्तन in Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or energy conversion is the प्रक्रम of changing one form of उर्जा to another.
In physics, the term energy describes the capacity to उपज certain परिवर्तन within a प्रणाली, without regard to limitations in परिवर्तन imposed by Entropy.
परिवर्तन in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting उर्जा from them, as energy is a quantity जिससे is conserved, according to the first विधि of thermodynamics.
according to special relativity, changes in the energy of प्रणालियों will भी coincide with परिवर्तन in the system 's mass, and the total amount of द्रव्यमान of a system is a माप of its energy.
Energy in a system may be रूपांतरित so that it resides in a different राज्य, or a different type of energy.
Energy in many states may be प्रयुक्त to do many varieties of शारीरिक कार्य.
Energy may be used in natural processes or मशीने, or else to provide कुछ सेवा to society ( such as heat, light, or गति ).
For example, an internal combustion engine converts the संभावित chemical energy in gasoline and oxygen into heat, which is then transformed into the propulsive energy ( kinetic energy कि moves a vehicle ).
A solar cell converts सौर विकिरण into electrical उर्जा that can then be used to light a बल्ब or power a computer.
The generic name for a यंत्र which converts energy from one form to another, is a transducer.
In general, most types of energy, save for thermal energy, may be converted efficiently to any अन्य kind of उर्जा.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, such as when potential energy is converted to kinetic energy as an object falls in vacuum, or when it orbits nearer or farther from another object, in space.
Conversion of other types of energies to heat may also occurs with nearly perfect efficiency ( many प्रकार of friction do this ).
Exceptions for perfect conversion दक्षता ( even लिये isolated systems ) occur when energy रै already महरूम partly वितरित among many available quantum states for a collection of अणु, which are freely allowed to explore any state of momentum and position ( phase space ).
In ऐसे हालातों, a measure called Entropy, or evening-out of energy distribution in such states, dictates that future states of the system must be of at तनिक equal evenness in energy distribution.
( There is no way, taking the universe as a whole, to collect energy into fewer states, once it has spread to them ).
A consequence of this आवश्यकता is that there हैं limitations to the efficiency with which thermal energy can be परिवर्तित to other kinds of energy, चूंकि thermal energy in equilibrium at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states.
Such energy is sometimes माना `` degraded उर्जा, '' क्युकी it is not entirely usable.
The second law of ऊष्मागतिकी is a way of stating that, for this कारण, thermal उर्जा in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 %, तभी if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of the universe is increased by other means, to compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and इसके entropy content.
वरना, only a part of thermal energy may be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of energy ( and thus, useful कार्य ), चूंकि the remainder of the heat must be सुरक्षित to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower तापमान, in such a रास्ता that the increase in Entropy for this process more than compensates for the entropy decrease associated with परिवर्तन of the rest of the ऊष्मा into other types of energy.
the National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a प्रमुख professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member क्लब, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New यॉर्क City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier पेशेवर बर्फ hockey league in the संसार, and one of the प्रमुख पेशेवर sports leagues in the United States and Canada.
The स्टेनली Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on नवम्बर 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, Quebec, Canada, after the suspension of operations of इसके predecessor संगठन, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been संस्थापित in 1909.
It started साथ four teams and, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is अभी composed of 30 active franchises.
The स्वदेश to which the नाम of the league originally referred was Canada, although the league has now महरूम binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the रद्दीकरण of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed play under a new सामूहिक bargaining अनुबंध that included a salary कैप.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, और television ऑडियंस.
The NHL draws many highly skilled players इससे all over the world और फिलहाल रै players इससे about 20 अलग countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past चार plus decades the percentages of us and यूरोपीय players have increased both because of the NHL 's जारी विस्तार इससे six to thirty क्लब since 1967, और the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
इस is the complete list of the ratified and unratified amendments to the United States संविधान which received the स्वीकृति of the संयुक्त States Congress.
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the original signing of the Constitution, the पहला ten of जिससे हैं known collectively as the Bill of Rights.
The procedure for amending the United States Constitution is governed by Article V of the original text.
There have been many other proposals for amendments to the United राज्य Constitution introduced in Congress, but not submitted to the states.
Before an amendment can take effect, it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both घरों of Congress or by a convention ( known as an आलेख V convention ) called by two-thirds of the states, and ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof, the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal.
To तिथि, no convention लिये proposing amendments has been called by the states, और only once—in 1933 for the ratification of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention method of अनुसमर्थन been employed.
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management and शोध ) or Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services निगम.
It is एक of the largest mutual fund and financial services groups in the world.
It was founded in 1946 and serves North अमरीकी investors.
Fidelity ventures is its venture पूंजी arm.
Fidelity अंतरराष्ट्रीय Limited ( FIL ), थी an international affiliate founded in 1969, serving most countries in the rest of the world.
In सितंबर 2011, फील थी rebranded as 'Fidelity विश्वव्यापी Investment '.
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds, provides fund वितरण and निवेश सलाह services, as well as providing discount brokerage services, retirement services, wealth management, securities execution and क्लीयरेंस, life insurance and a क्रमांक of other services.
June 2006 was the sixth month of that year.
It began on a Thursday और ended after 30 days on a शुक्रवार the following events also occurred during the month:
समाजशास्त्र is the scientific study of human समाज and इसके origins, विकास, organizations, and institutions.
It is a social science which uses various methods of empirical investigation and critical analysis to develop a देह of knowledge about इंसान social activity, structures, and functions.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be applied सीधे to सोशल policy और welfare, जबकि others focus primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes.
विषय पदार्थ ranges from the micro level of व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी and interaction to the मैक्रो level of systems and the social structure.
The traditional focuses of sociology include social स्तरीकरण, सोशल class, culture, race और ethnicity, gender और sexuality, social mobility, धर्म, secularization, law, और deviance.
As all spheres of human activity हैं affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency, sociology has gradually expanded its focus to further subjects, such as health, medical, military and penal institutions, the अंतरजाल, environmental sociology, political economy and the role of social activity in the development of वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान.
The दायरा of social वैज्ञानिक methods has also विस्तारित.
सोशल researchers draw upon a variety of qualitative and quantitative techniques.
The linguistic and cultural turns of the mid-twentieth century led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, और philosophic approaches to the analysis of society.
Conversely, recent दशकों have देखी the rise of new analytically, mathematically and computationally कठोर techniques, such as agent-based मॉडलिंग and social network analysis.
Sociology चाहिए नहीं be confused with विभिन्न general सोशल studies courses which bear little relation to sociological theory or social science शोध methodology.
Thunder is the sound caused by lightning.
Depending on the nature of the lightning and distance of the listener, thunder can range from a sharp, loud क्रैक to a long, कम rumble ( brontide ).
the अचानक बढ़ाएँ in pressure and temperature from lightning produces रैपिड विस्तार of the एयर surrounding and within a bolt of lightning.
In turn, this expansion of air creates a sonic shock wave, similar to a sonic boom, which produces the sound of thunder, often referred to as a clap, crack, or peal of thunder.
the distance of the lightning can be calculated by the listener based on the time interval from when the lightning is देखी to when the sound is heard.
Palma (,, ), in full Palma de Mallorca, is the major city and port on the island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and पूंजी city of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands in Spain.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of Majorca ) और Ciutat ( City ) were प्रयुक्त before the War of the Spanish Succession and are still used by लोगों in Majorca.
however, the official नाम was Mallorca, the same as the island.
It is situated on the south coast of the island on the Bay of Palma.
as of the 2009 census, the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर of Palma proper was 401,270, और the population of the entire urban area was 517,285, ranking as the twelfth largest urban area of Spain.
लगभग हाफ of the total population of Majorca सजीव in Palma.
The Cabrera Archipelago, हालांकि widely separated from Palma proper, is administratively माना part of the municipality.
Its airport, Son Sant Joan, serves over 22 million यात्री each year.
The Marivent Palace was offered by the city to the then प्रिंस Juan Carlos I of Spain.
The royals have since spent their summer holidays in Palma.
Luthor redirects here.
For other uses, see लूथर ( disambiguation ).
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in comic किताबे published by DC Comics.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, and as a high-status supervillain, has also आइये into conflict with बैटमैन and other superheroes in the DC Universe.
निर्मित by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, the character first appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ).
Luthor is described as `` a power-mad, दुष्ट scientist '' of ऊँची intelligence and incredible technological prowess.
Luthor 's लक्ष्य typically बीच on हत्या सुपरमैन, the foremost obstacle to achieving the विलेन 's megalomaniacal goals.
despite periodically wearing a powered exoskeleton, Luthor रै traditionally lacked superpowers or a डुअल पहचान.
The character थी originally depicted as a mad scientist who, in the vein of pulp novels, wreaks havoc on the world with his futuristic weaponry.
In उसके earliest appearances, luthor is shown with a full head of रेड hair.
Despite इस, the character later became hairless as the परिणाम of an artist 's mistake.
A 1960 story by जेरी Siegel विस्तारित upon Luthor 's उत्पत्ति and motivations, revealing him to be a childhood dost of Superman 's who lost his hair जब a fire destroyed उसके laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge.
Following the 1985 limited श्रेणी Crisis on Infinite Earths, the character was re-imagined as a Machiavellian industrialist and white-collar criminal, even briefly सेवारत as President of the United States.
In recent years, विभिन्न writers have revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
The character was ranked as the 8th Greatest Villain by Wizard on its 100 Greatest खलनायक of All Time list.
IGN 's list of the शीर्ष 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time ranked Luthor as # 4.
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by कॉमिक किताब critic Peter sanderson, one of a few genre-crossing villains जिनकी adventures लो place `` in a world in which the ordinary laws of प्रकृति हैं slightly suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty, Count Dracula, Hannibal lecter, Doctor Doom, और Darth Vader, also fit this description.
मार्टिन लूथर किंग, Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday marking the birthday of Rev. Dr. Martin लूथर King, Jr.
it is observed on the third Monday of January each year, which is around the time of किंग 's birthday, January 15.
The floating अवकाश is similar to holidays set under the Uniform सोमवार Holiday Act, though the act predated the establishment of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by 15 सालो.
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent activism in the civil rights गति, which successfully protested racial discrimination in federal and state law.
The campaign for a संघीय holiday in King 's honor began soon after उसके assassination in 1968.
रोनाल्ड Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983, and it was पहला observed on January 20, 1986.
At पहला, some states resisted observing the holiday as such, giving it alternative names or combining it with other holidays.
it was officially observed in all 50 राज्य for the first time in 2000.
The camera फोन solution allows instant sharing of तस्वीरें.
As it 's automatic and instant, the user does नहीं have to use a cable or removable media to connect to a personal computer.
a camera फोन is a mobile phone which is able to कैप्चर still photographs ( and usually video ).
चूंकि early in the 21st century the majority of mobile phones in use are कैमरा phones.
Most camera phones are simpler than separate digital cameras.
उनके usual फिक्स्ड focus lenses और smaller sensors limit their performance in poor lighting.
lacking a physical शटर, most have a long shutter lag.
Flash, where present, is usually weak.
Optical जूम and tripod screws are rare.
Some also lack a USB connection, removable memory card, or other way of transferring their pictures more quickly than by the फोन 's inherent communication feature.
Some of the अधिक expensive camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages, which apply most acutely in low लाइट शर्तें and in any case have not inhibited their widespread use.
Most model lines improve in these regards every year or two.
Some, such as the Droid Incredible only have a मेनू choice to start an application program to activate the camera.
Others, such as the ब्लैकबेरी तूफ़ान 2, Droid x, Motorola v980 and Nokia 5800 also have a separate camera button लिये quickness and convenience.
Windows Phones can be विन्यस्त to operate as a कैमरा even if the phone is asleep.
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end digital compact cameras in appearance and to some extent in features and picture quality, and are branded as both mobile फोन और cameras, including निश्चित Sony phones.
The principal advantages of camera phones are cost and compactness ; indeed for a user who carries a मोबाईल phone anyway, the additional आकार and cost हैं negligible.
स्मार्टफ़ोन that are camera phones may run mobile applications to add capabilities such as geotagging और image stitching.
A few high end फोन can use their touch स्क्रीन to direct their camera to फ़ोकस on a particular object in the फ़ील्ड of view, giving even an अनुभवहीन user a degree of focus control exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus.
`` Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow ? '' is a 1986 कॉमिक book story featuring the DC Comics character of Superman.
Written by Alan मूर साथ help from long-time, and soon to be retiring, सुपरमैन एडिटर, जूलियस schwartz, the story was published in two parts, beginning in Superman # 423 and ending in Action Comics # 583, both प्रकाशित in September 1986.
The story थी drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan, in his final प्रमुख योगदान to the सुपरमैन titles, and थी inked by George Pérez in the issue of Superman और Kurt schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics.
The story was an imaginary tale which told the फाइनल story of the Silver Age Superman and his long history, which was होने rebooted following the events of संकट on Infinite earths, before उसके modern introduction in the जॉन Byrne series, The Man of Steel.
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long history of the character and to serve as a पूरा conclusion to his mythology.
The story is a फ़्रेम story set ten years after Superman was last seen, where Lois लेन recounts the tale of the समाप्त of सुपरमैन 's career to a रिपोर्टर from the Daily Planet.
Her story शामिल numerous violent हमले against Superman by उसके enemies, the public revelation of his secret identity of Clark Kent and a number of मौतों of those closest to him.
the स्टोरी has been cited as एक of the best stories of the character of Superman, and आलोचकों and audiences frequently चुनें it as one of the सबसे memorable comics ever published.
it is used as an example of how to बंद the long-time continuity of a comic book अक्षर.
The story 's legacy has endured with similar stories written as श्रद्धांजलि to it.
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman as the Man of Tomorrow, and थी used in the title of another Superman.
the Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and विकसित by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal उत्पादन car in the संसार, साथ a शीर्ष speed of.
The original version has a top गति of.
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी television कार्यक्रम Top Gear.
The मानक Veyron जीती Top गियर्स Best Car Driven All Year पुरस्कार in 2005.
on 6 April 2013, bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the संसार with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
The veyron 's मुख्य पंक्तियां was hartmut Warkuss, और the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of volkswagen, with much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of खास विसंगतियाँ have been produced.
In December 2010, bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and interiors रंग by using the Veyron 16.4 configurator application on the marque 's आधिकारिक website.
The संस्था of the Eucharist has महरूम a key theme in the depictions of the पिछला Supper in Christian art, as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes पेंटिंग.
`` at the Last Supper, on the night he was betrayed, our Savior instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of his Body and Blood. ''
( Catechism of the कैथोलिक Church 1323 )
Eucharist in the कैथोलिक Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass, that is, the Eucharist liturgy, and the ब्रैड and wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ, रब and God, a घोषणा formulated by the Council of ट्रेंट with an anathema against anyone who denied this.
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term प्रयुक्त in the Roman Catholic Church to refer to the Eucharistic species ( the देह and रक्त of Christ ).
the following is a list of colleges और universities in the u.S. राज्य of Louisiana.
A short story is a brief work of literature, प्रायः written in narrative prose.
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short story रै grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization.
at its most prototypical the short स्टोरी सुविधाएँ a small cast of नामित characters, और focuses on a self-contained incident with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood.
In so doing, short stories make use of plot, resonance, and other dynamic components to a far greater degree than is typical of an किस्सा, yet to a दूर lesser degree than a अनोखा.
While the short story is largely distinct from the novel, authors of both generally draw from a common pool of literary techniques.
Short कहानियां have no नियत लंबाई.
In terms of word गिनती there is no official demarcation between an anecdote, a छोटी स्टोरी, and a novel.
बल्कि, the form 's parameters are given by the rhetorical and practical context in जिससे a given story is produced and considered, so कि what constitutes a छोटी story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and टीकाकारों.
Like the novel, the short story 's predominant आकार reflects the demands of the उपलब्धियाँ markets for publication, and the evolution of the form seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing industry and the submission guidelines of its constituent houses.
The short story रै महरूम considered both an apprenticeship रूप preceding more lengthy works, and a crafted form in its अपना right, collected together in किताबे of similar length, price, and distribution as novels.
Short story writers may define their works as part of the artistic and निजी expression of the form.
They may also attempt to resist categorization by genre and फिक्स्ड form.
Area codes in मिशिगन
Area code 810 is the telephone क्षेत्रफल code serving eastern Michigan.
The raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, भी known as the common raccoon, North American raccoon, northern raccoon and colloquially as coon, is a medium-sized mammal native to North अमेरिका.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family, having a देह length of and a body वज़न of.
Its grayish कोट ज़्यादातर consists of dense underfur जिससे insulates against cold weather.
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its extremely dexterous front paws and its facial mask, which are विषयवस्तु in the mythology of अनेक Native American tribes.
Raccoons are noted लिये उनके intelligence, with studies प्रर्दशित that they are able to remember the solution to tasks लिये up to three years.
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, which is usually nocturnal, consists of about 40 % invertebrates, 33 % संयंत्र foods, और 27 % vertebrates.
The असली habitats of the raccoon are पतझड़ी और mixed forests, but due to their adaptability they have extended their range to mountainous areas, coastal marshes, and urban areas, where some homeowners consider them to be pests.
as a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th सदी, raccoons are now also distributed आरपार the European mainland, the काकेशस region and Japan.
Though previously thought to be solitary, वहीँ is अभी evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific सोशल behavior.
Related females प्रायः share a आम क्षेत्रफल, while unrelated males live together in groups of up to four animals to maintain their positions against foreign males during the mating season, and other potential invaders.
Home range sizes vary anywhere from 3 hectares ( 7 acres ) for females in cities to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies.
After a gestation period of परिचय 65 दिनों, two to five young, known as `` kits '', are born in spring.
The kits are subsequently raised by their mother until dispersion in late fall.
Although खिलाते raccoons have been known to live over 20 सालो, उनके औसत life expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years.
In अनेक areas, hunting and vehicular चोट are the two most आम causes of death.
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic परिमाण 7.0 mw earthquake, with an epicenter near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ), लगभग west of Port-au-Prince, Haiti 's capital.
The भूकंप occurred at 16:53 लोकल time ( 21:53 utc ) on Tuesday, 12 जनवरी 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater था महरूम recorded.
An estimated three million लोगों were affected by the भूकंप.
The highest विश्वसनीय death count थी estimated at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates were higher.
The सरकारी of Haiti estimated that 250,000 residences and 30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or were severely damaged.
The earthquake caused प्रमुख damage in Port-au-Prince, Jacmel and other settlements in the region.
Many notable landmark इमारतें were significantly damaged or destroyed, including the Presidential राजमहल, the National Assembly building, the port-au-prince Cathedral, and the main jail.
Among those मारे were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince जोसेफ Serge Miot, and opposition leader Micha Gaillard.
the headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in हैती ( MINUSTAH ), located in the capital, collapsed, killing many, सहित the मिशन 's Chief, Hédi Annabi.
Many देशों responded to appeals for humanitarian aid, pledging funds and dispatching बचाव and चिकित्सा teams, engineers and support personnel.
Communication systems, एयर, land, and sea हस्तांतरण facilities, hospitals, and electrical संजाल had been damaged by the earthquake, which hampered rescue and aid प्रयत्न ; confusion over who was in charge, एयर traffic congestion, and problems साथ prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief कार्य.
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were अभिभूत with tens of हज़ारों of bodies.
These had to be buried in द्रव्यमान graves.
As rescues tailed off, आपूर्तियाँ, medical care और sanitation became priorities.
देरी in aid distribution led to angry appeals from सहायता workers and survivors, and looting and sporadic हिंसा were observed.
On 22 January the United Nations noted कि the emergency phase of the relief operation was drawing to a close, and on the following दिन the Haitian सरकारी officially called off the search for survivors.
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse, originally appearing in short stories by Walter R. ब्रूक्स, and later in an अमरीकी television हालात comedy produced by Filmways कि first aired in syndication from January 5 to जुलाई 2, 1961, and then on CBS from अक्तूबर 1, 1961 to February 6, 1966.
The stars of the show were मिस्टर Ed, a palomino horse who could `` talk '', निभाई by gelding बाँसुरी harvester and voiced by former Western स्टार Allan Lane ( who गई uncredited for the entire length of the series ), and उसके owner, an eccentric and enormously klutzy, yet friendly, architect named Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ).
Much of the कार्यक्रम 's humor stemmed इससे the fact Mister Ed would speak only to Wilbur, as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's character होने a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or अन्य.
according to the show 's producer, Arthur lubin, यंग was chosen as the सीसे character because he `` just seemed like the sort of guy a horse would बात to ''.
Lubin, a friend of Mae वेस्ट, scored a तख्तापलट by persuading the screen प्रतीक to guest star in one एपीसोड.
In the United States, reruns aired on Nick at नाइट इससे March 3, 1986, to February 1, 1993.
Sister station TV Land also reran the show from 1996–98 and again from 2003-06.
The series is फिलहाल broadcast प्रत्येक morning on इस TV, along with Highway Patrol, and The Patty Duke Show.
It is भी फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट on Hallmark Movie Channel.
As of जनवरी 1, 2011, the first दो seasons of the show are available on Hulu.
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 Thessalonians 4:17, जब the `` dead in मसीह '' and `` we who are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the रब in the एयर ''.
the term `` Rapture '' is used in at तनिक two senses.
In the pre-tribulation view, a group of people will be left behind on earth after another group literally leaves `` to मिलें the रब in the air. ''
This is now the most common use of the term, especially among fundamentalist Christians and in the United राज्य.
The other, older उपयोग of the term `` Rapture '' is simply as a synonym लिये the final resurrection generally, without a belief that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended tribulation period बाद the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
इस distinction is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in religious education, लकिन might use the older and more general sense of the word `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the फाइनल resurrection.
There are अनेक दृश्य among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return ( including whether it will occur in एक event or two ), and various views regarding the destination of the aerial gathering वर्णित in 1 Thessalonians 4.
Denominations such as Roman catholics, Orthodox Christians, Lutheran Christians, and Reformed ईसाइयों believe in a rapture only in the sense of a general final resurrection, when Christ returns a single time.
They do not believe that a group of people is left behind on धरती for an extended tribulation period after the कार्यक्रम of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture धर्मशास्त्र was विकसित in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby और the plymouth brethren, and popularized in the United States in the early 20th सदी by the wide परिसंचरण of the Scofield Reference Bible.
क्रिस Nathan Humphries ( born February 6, 1985 ) is an American professional basketball player with the ब्रुकलीन नेट.
The philistine cities of Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Ekron, and Gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, plištim ), Pleshet or Peleset, were a लोगों who as part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the आयरन Age ( circa 1175 BC ), most probably from the ईजियन region.
According to the Bible, they ruled the पाँच city-states ( the `` philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, ekron and gath, from Wadi Gaza in the south to the Yarqon River in the north, but with no fixed border to the east.
The Bible paints them as the Kingdom of इसराईल 's सबसे खतरनाक दुश्मन.
Originating somewhere in the Aegean, their जनसांख्यिकी was around 25,000 in the 12th सदी bc, उठती to a शिखर of 30,000 in the 11th century BC, of which the Aegean element was not more than half the total, और perhaps much less.
Nothing is known for certain about the असली language or languages of the Philistines, however they were not भाग of the Semitic Canaanite जनसांख्यिकी.
There is some सीमित evidence in favour of the assumption that the Philistines यहूद Indo-European-speakers either इससे Greece and/or Luwian अध्यक्षों from the coast of एशिया नाबालिग.
Philistine-related words found in the Bible are not Semitic, and can in some cases, with रिज़र्वेशन, be traced वापस to Proto-Indo-European roots.
By the beginning of the 1st मिलेनियम BCE they had अपनाया the सामान्य Canaanite language of the region.
the हथियारबंद सेवाएं Vocational Aptitude बैटरी ( ASVAB ) is a अनेक choice test, administered by the United States Military Entrance Processing Command, used to determine qualification for enlistment in the संयुक्त States armed forces.
It is often offered to American high school students when they are in the 10th, 11th and 12th grade, though anyone eligible for enlistment may take it.
हालांकि the test is administered by the सैन्य, it is not ( और never has been ) a requirement that a test-taker साथ a qualifying स्कोर enlist in the armed forces.
In financial accounting, a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole बंदोबस्त, a business partnership, a corporation or other कारोबार organization, such as an LLC or an llp.
Assets, liabilities and ownership equity are listed as of a specific date, such as the समाप्त of its financial year.
A संतुलन चादर is often described as a `` snapshot of a company 's financial condition ''.
Of the four basic financial statements, the balance sheet is the तभी statement which applies to a single point in time of a business ' calendar year.
A standard कम्पनी balance sheet has three भाग : assets, liabilities and स्वामित्व equity.
The main categories of एसेट हैं usually listed first, and typically in अनुक्रम of liquidity.
Assets are followed by the liabilities.
the difference between the एसेट and the liabilities is known as equity or the जाल assets or the जाल worth or capital of the company and according to the हिसाब equation, net worth must equal assets ऋण देनदारी.
Another way to look at the same equation is that assets equals liabilities प्लस मालिक 's equity.
Looking at the equation in इस way shows कैसा assets were financed : either by borrowing money ( liability ) or by using the owner 's धन ( owner 's equity ).
संतुलन sheets are usually presented with assets in one section and liabilities and net worth in the other section साथ the दो sections `` balancing. ''
A business operating entirely in cash can माप इसके profits by withdrawing the entire bank balance at the end of the काल, plus any cash in हाथ.
However, many businesses are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment.
In other words : व्यवसायों have assets and so they can not, भी if they want to, immediately turn these into cash at the end of each काल.
Often, these businesses owe money to आपूर्तिकर्ता और to tax authorities, और the proprietors do not withdraw all their original capital and profits at the end of each period.
In other words व्यवसायों also have liabilities.
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly known as the.17 HMR, is a rimfire राइफल cartridge developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002.
it descended from the.22 Magnum by necking down the.22 मैग्नम मामला to लो a.17 caliber ( 4.5 mm ) गोली, and it is अधिक costly to shoot than traditional.22 caliber rimfire cartridges.
Commonly loaded with a 17 grain ( 1.1 g ) bullet, it can deliver muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The Schaumburg Flyers were a professional baseball team based in Schaumburg, Illinois, in the United States.
The Flyers were to be a चार्टर member of the North American League, which is not संबद्ध with Major League बेसबॉल, however, the team folded in March 2011, before they began play in the nal.
इससे the 1999 season to the 2010 season, the flyers played their home games at Alexian Field, near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway.
The टोली formerly played in Thunder Bay, ओंटारियो, where they were known as the Thunder Bay whiskey jacks.
The team was originally a member of the Northern League from 1993 to 2010.
on July 27, 2009, the flyers played host to Battle of the Sexes II, which pitted the flyers against the नेशनल Pro Fastpitch Softball Champions, the शिकागो Bandits.
Played by आधिकारिक softball rules, the game was seen by an overflow record crowd of 8,918, और was won by the Bandits 4-2.
In 1999, the Flyers hired their पहला मैनेजर, Ron Kittle.
kittle is best known for his playing days with the Chicago White Sox, and पूर्व Chicago शावक and श्वेत Sox खिलाड़ी Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach.
During the early years of the मताधिकार, Kittle did a श्रेणी of tv commercials to promote the team, using the gimmick `` Ma kittle. '' where he played both himself and his `` ma. ''
The विज्ञापन यहूद कामयाब at sparking कुछ initial interest in the टोली as the Flyers hoped to चोरी away fans from the nearby Kane County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly successful Converse विज्ञापन where लैरी Johnson starred as both himself and `` Gramama. ''
at the end of the 2001 season, however, Kittle resigned from उसके managerial position, and Jim Boynewicz was hired to replace उसे.
In 2004, the Flyers made it to the Northern League Championship Series against the st. Paul Saints.
Despite leading the five-game series 2-1, schaumburg आखिरकार lost the series.
In Game 5, flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas allowed a खेल winning grand स्लैम by St. Paul infielder Marc Mirizzi in the ninth inning.
the Flyers appeared in the Northern League playoffs four times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) but never won the championship.
Some famous players जो निभाई for the Flyers were former Oakland A 's outfielder Ozzie Canseco and former शिकागो Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an English film and थिएटर actress and पूर्व फ़ैशन model.
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall, Cambridge in the early 1990s, then started working in television, appearing in Inspector Morse, the British mini-series Scarlet and Black, and the television फिल्मी Advocates ii.
She made her फिल्मी début in the film Death यंत्र ( 1994 ), but her breakthrough role आए in the film कड़ी Reaction ( 1996 ), leading to a high-profile role as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and the Mummy Returns ( 2001 ).
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the गेट्स, About a Boy, Constantine, The Fountain और the Constant माली, for which she received an Academy Award, a Golden ग्लोब और a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa quayle.
वो has been labelled an `` English rose '' चूंकि her minor role in Stealing Beauty ( 1996 ).
Weisz भी works in theatre.
Her stage breakthrough थी the 1994 revival of Noël Coward 's play Design लिये Living, which earned her the London आलोचकों Circle Award for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse production of टेनेसी विलियम्स ' एकाएक, Last Summer, and their 2009 revival of A स्ट्रीटकार Named Desire.
उसके portrayal of blanche DuBois in the latter play earned her the Critics ' Circle Theatre Award लिये Best Actress.
She has recently played Evanora in Oz the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली.
the अमरीकी Civil War ( ACW ), भी known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil युद्ध fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign शक्तियां did not intervene.
बाद four years of bloody कॉम्बैट that बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers मुर्दे and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration होता नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and both sides prepared लिये war.
the Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none पहचाना the new Confederate States of America.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in दक्षिण Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, चार अधिक slave राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
the Union जल्द controlled the border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The पूर्वी Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending गुलामी a war goal.
To the वेस्ट, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate नदी navy, then much of their western सेना, and the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant command of सब Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture अटलांटा and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure साथ the way.
the Union marshaled the संसाधन और manpower to attack the Confederacy from सब directions, and could afford to लड़ो battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate फौज failed, leading to ली 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at appomattox Court House on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी Civil युद्ध was one of the earliest true industrial युद्धों.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed संसार War I.
It remains the deadliest war in अमरीकी history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John huddleston estimates the death टोल at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of सब Southern श्वेत males aged 18–40.
आलू bread is a form of bread in which potato replaces a portion of the regular गेहूं आटा.
It is cooked in a variety of methods, including by baking it on a hot griddle or pan, or in an ओवन.
It may be leavened or unleavened, and may have a variety of other ingredients baked into it.
The ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly from रेसिपी to recipe, साथ कुछ recipes having a majority of आलू, and others having a majority of गेहूं flour.
Some recipes कॉल for mashed potatoes, with others calling for dehydrated potato flakes.
It is उपलब्धियाँ as a commercial product in many countries, with similar variations in ingredients, cooking method, and अन्य variables.
The Pacific Time Zone observes standard time by subtracting eight hours from समन्वित Universal समय ( ).
The clock time in this zone is based on the mean solar time of the 120th meridian west of the Greenwich वेधशाला.
During daylight saving time, its time offset is.
In the संयुक्त राज्य and Canada, this time zone is generically पुकारा प्रशांत Time ( pt ).
Specifically, it is प्रशांत मानक Time ( PST ) when observing standard समय ( winter ), and Pacific daylight Time ( PDT ) when observing daylight saving समय ( summer ).
Most of Canada उपयोग daylight saving time.
In Mexico the UTC−8 time zone is known as the Northwest Zone, which is synchronized with the U.S. पीडीटी daylight saving schedule.
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone is Los Angeles in California from USA ; the city 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone.
The zone is one hour ahead of the अलास्का Time Zone, one hour पीछे the Mountain समय मण्डल and three घंटों behind the Eastern Time Zone.
स्टीरियो 8, commonly known as the eight-track कार्ट्रिज, eight-track tape, or बस eight-track, is a magnetic tape sound recording technology.
It was popular in the United States इससे the mid-1960s through to the जल्दी 1980s, लकिन was relatively अनजान in many European countries.
It was, however, very popular in the United Kingdom during this काल.
Stereo 8 was created in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill lear of lear Jet Corporation, along साथ Ampex, Ford Motor कम्पनी, General मोटर्स, Motorola, and RCA विक्टर Records ( RCA ).
It was a further development of the similar Stereo-Pak four-track cartridge created by अर्ल `` madman '' Muntz.
A बाद quadraphonic version of the स्वरूप was announced by RCA in April 1970 and first known as Quad-8, then later changed to just Q8.
Ramesses II ( 1303 bc – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian :, alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or ), referred to as Ramesses the Great, was the तीसरा मिश्र pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 bc ) of the Nineteenth dynasty.
He is प्रायः regarded as the greatest, most celebrated, and most शक्तिशाली pharaoh of the Egyptian साम्राज्य.
His successors and later Egyptians called him the `` ग्रेट पूर्वज. ''
रामेसेस II led several military expeditions into the Levant, re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan.
He also led expeditions to the south, into Nubia, commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein.
At आयु चौदह, Ramesses थी appointed Prince Regent by his father Seti I.
he is believed to have taken the throne in उसके late teens and is known to have शासित Egypt इससे 1279 BC to 1213 bc लिये 66 years and 2 months, according to both Manetho and Egypt 's समकालीन historical रिकॉर्ड.
He थी once said to have lived to be 99 years old, but it is more likely that he died in उसके 90th or 91st year.
If he became pharaoh in 1279 BC as सबसे egyptologists today believe, he would have assumed the throne on May 31, 1279 BC, based on उसके known accession date of iii shemu day 27.
रामेसेस II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the first held after thirty years of a pharaoh 's शासनकाल, और then every three सालो ) during his reign—more than कोई other pharaoh.
On his death, he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of the Kings ; his body was later moved to a royal cache where it was discovered in 1881, and is now on display in the Cairo Museum.
The early part of his reign was focused on building cities, temples and monuments.
He established the नगर of pi-ramesses in the Nile Delta as his new capital और main base for his campaigns in सीरियाई.
This city was built on the remains of the city of avaris, the capital of the Hyksos when वे took over, and was the location of the main Temple of Set.
He is also ज्ञात as Ozymandias in the Greek sources, इससे a transliteration into Greek of a भाग of रामेसेस 's throne name,, `` Ra 's mighty truth, chosen of Ra ''.
the टेक्सास Rangers are a professional baseball team located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, based in Arlington, Texas.
The रेंजरों franchise is currently a सदस्य of the Western Division of प्रमुख लीग Baseball 's American League.
Since, the Rangers have played in Rangers Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington, Texas.
The team 's नाम is borrowed from the famous विधि प्रवर्तन agency of the same name.
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the वॉशिंगटन Senators, an expansion टोली awarded to Washington, D.C., after the city 's पहला ballclub, the original वॉशिंगटन Senators, moved to Minnesota and became the Twins.
After the season, the new Senators moved to Arlington, Texas, और debuted as the रेंजरों the following वसन्त.
The टेक्सास रेंजरों Baseball Club has बना six appearances in the MLB postseason, all following division championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the Rangers उन्नत past the प्रभाग Series for the first time, defeating the Tampa Bay Rays.
Texas then brought घर their first American League Pennant after धड़कन the New York Yankees in six games.
in the 2010 World श्रेणी, the franchise 's first, the Rangers fell to the San Francisco Giants in five खेल.
उनके लोन victory made them the first Texas team to win a संसार Series game, the Houston एस्टर्स having been swept in their 2005 संसार Series appearance.
They repeated as American League champions the following साल, then lost the 2011 World Series to the st. Louis कार्डिनल्स in seven games.
Gaius Julius Caesar (, July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC ) was a रोमन general, statesman, Consul and notable लेखक of Latin गद्य.
He played a critical भूमिका in the कार्यक्रम that led to the demise of the Roman Republic और the rise of the Roman Empire.
in 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus and Pompey formed a political alliance that was to dominate Roman politics for several years.
Their attempts to amass शक्ति through populist tactics यहूद opposed by the conservative elite भीतर the Roman Senate, among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero.
Caesar 's conquest of gaul, completed by 51 BC, extended Rome 's territory to the English Channel and the Rhine.
Caesar became the पहला Roman सामान्य to cross both when he built a bridge across the राइन और conducted the first invasion of ब्रिटेन.
These achievements granted him unmatched सैन्य शक्ति and threatened to eclipse the standing of Pompey, जो था realigned himself with the Senate after the death of crassus in 53 BC.
With the gallic Wars concluded, the सीनेट ordered सीज़र to lay down his military command and return to Rome.
Caesar refused, and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing the Rubicon with a legion, leaving his province और illegally entering Roman territory under arms.
Civil युद्ध resulted, from which he emerged as the unrivaled नेता of Rome.
After assuming control of government, Caesar began a program of social and सरकारी reforms, including the creation of the जूलियन पंचांग.
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic and was eventually proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity ''.
But the underlying political conflicts had not been resolved, and on the Ides of March ( 15 March ) 44 BC, Caesar was assassinated by a group of senators led by Marcus Junius ब्रूटस.
A new श्रेणी of civil wars broke आउट, and the constitutional सरकारी of the गणतंत्र was never restored.
Caesar 's adopted heir octavian, later known as Augustus, रोज़ to sole power, and the era of the Roman Empire began.
much of Caesar 's life is ज्ञात from his own accounts of his military अभियान, और इससे other contemporary sources, mainly the अक्षर and speeches of Cicero and the ऐतिहासिक कृतियाँ of Sallust.
The later biographies of Caesar by Suetonius और Plutarch are भी major sources.
Caesar is deemed to be one of the greatest military कमांडरों of इतिहास.
भाषाई map of Nigeria, Cameroon, और Benin.
Sign in अंग्रेज़ी, outside the University of Lagos
There are hundreds of languages spoken in Nigeria.
The major languages are Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, Edo, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The official भाषा of Nigeria, English, the former colonial language, was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic एकता of the देश.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's urban elite, and is नहीं widely spoken in ग्रामीण areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic विविधता is a microcosm of Africa as a पूरे, encompassing three major African languages families : Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, such as cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an even वृहद diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot, ( UK ) bird 's nest, बिशप 's lace, and Queen Anne 's lace ( North अमेरिका ) ) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, native to temperate regions of Europe, दक्षिणपश्चिम Asia and naturalised to उत्तर America and Australia.
Domesticated carrots are cultivars of a subspecies, Daucus carota subsp. sativus.
in the United States, the शीर्षक of federal judge usually अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the President of the United राज्य और confirmed by the United राज्य Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article ii of the United राज्य Constitution.
In addition to the परम् Court of the संयुक्त States, whose अस्तित्व and some पहलुओं of जिनकी jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of कॉंग्रेस to alter, acts of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13 courts of appeals ( भी called `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, and 94 United States ज़िला courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a संघीय judge ; such स्थितियाँ include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, and district न्यायाधीशों of the United राज्य district courts.
सब of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` आलेख III न्यायाधीशों '' because वे कसरत the judicial power vested in the न्यायिक branch of the federal government by आलेख III of the U.S. संविधान.
In जोड, judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial शक्ति pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate न्यायाधीशों and bankruptcy judges, are भी sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, they are neither appointed by the President nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट, और their शक्ति derives इससे Article I instead.
See Article I and Article III tribunals.
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born December 2, 1978 ) is a Canadian singer, songwriter and अभिनेत्री.
She has sold 20 million एल्बम worldwide and more 20 million singles, bringing her total sales to over 40 million records around the world.
फ़र्टाडो first gained fame with her debut album, Whoa, Nelly !
, which spawned two successful singles, `` I 'm Like a Bird `` and `` Turn बंद the Light ``. ``
i 'm Like A बर्ड '' won a 2001 Juno Award लिये Single of the Year and a 2002 ग्रैमी Award लिये Best Female Pop गायन Performance.
in 2003, Furtado released लोकगीत, which produced three international singles— `` Powerless ( Say What You Want ) ``, `` Try `` and `` Força ``.
Three सालो later she released Loose, a worldwide वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी.
The album शाखित four number-one hits : `` promiscuous ``, `` Maneater ``, `` Say It Right `` and `` All शुभ Things ( Come to an End ) ``.
After a three-year ब्रेक, वो released her first full-length Spanish album, Mi Plan, and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal एल्बम.
In 2012, Furtado 's fourth English-language studio album, The Spirit अविनाशी was released.
Furtado 's work has अर्जित her numerous पुरस्कार and accolades, including 2 Grammy पुरस्कार, 10 Juno Awards, 3 MuchMusic Video पुरस्कार और a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame.
जीव of the Night is the tenth स्टुडियो album by Kiss.
it is the band 's पिछला album for Casablanca Records, the only label the समूह had कभी recorded for at that point.
the album was समर्पित to the memory of कासाब्लांका founder और early Kiss supporter Neil Bogart, जो had died of कर्कट during the recording सत्र.
It is भी the band 's last album recorded with Ace frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's Psycho Circus ), and its first एल्बम with vinnie Vincent as the initially uncredited lead guitarist ( Vincent would बाद be credited, but not featured pictorially on the cover, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
टच is a crucial means of receiving information.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying stairs for visually impaired people.
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the sensory modalities such as touch, temperature, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
The sensory receptors cover the skin और epithelia, skeletal muscles, bones and joints, internal organs, and the cardiovascular प्रणाली.
While touch is considered one of the five परंपरागत senses, the छाप of टच is formed from several modalities.
In आयुर्विज्ञान, the colloquial पद `` touch '' is usually replaced with `` somatic senses '' to better reflect the variety of mechanisms involved.
दैहिक senses are sometimes referred to as somesthetic होश, with the understanding that somesthesis includes टच, proprioception और ( depending on उपयोग ) also haptic perception.
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors.
Transmission of information from the receptors passes via sensory nerves through tracts in the spinal cord and into the brain.
प्रसंस्करण primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal पालि of the cerebral cortex.
the cortical homunculus was devised by वाइल्डर penfield.
At its simplest, the system works when कार्यकलाप in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as heat ; this signal eventually गुजरता to an area in the brain uniquely attributed to कि क्षेत्रफल on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
the point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the brain is पुकारा a homunculus and is essential in the creation of a देह चित्र.
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) map is not immutable, however.
नाटकीय shifts can occur in response to स्ट्रोक or injury.
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210 flowering plant प्रजाति in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the परिवार Magnoliaceae.
it is named after फ्रेंच botanist Pierre magnol.
Magnolia is an ancient genus.
Appearing before मधुमक्खियों did, the पुष्प evolved to encourage pollination by beetles.
To avoid damage from pollinating beetles, the carpels of Magnolia flowers are अत्यधिक मुश्किल.
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have been found dating to 20 million सालो ago, and of plants identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago.
Another aspect of Magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral state is कि the flower bud is enclosed in a bract rather than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated और called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals.
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic साथ several other flowering पौधे near the base of the flowering plant lineage such as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ).
The प्राकृतिक range of Magnolia species is a disjunct वितरण, with a प्रमुख centre in east and southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North अमेरिका, Central America, the West इंडीज, and some species in South अमेरिका.
thumb
`` White क्रिसमस '' is an Irving Berlin song reminiscing about an old-fashioned Christmas सेटिंग.
according to the Guinness Book of संसार Records, the version sung by Bing Crosby is the best-selling single of all time, with अनुमानित sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide.
Accounts vary as to जब and where Berlin wrote the song.
One स्टोरी is that he wrote it in 1940, in warm La Quinta, California, while रहकर at the La Quinta Hotel, a frequent Hollywood retreat also favored by writer-producer Frank Capra, हालांकि the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there.
He often ठहरे up all night writing — he told his secretary, `` पकड़ें your pen और take down this song.
I just लिखा the best song I 've ever written — heck, I just wrote the best song that anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a रूप of ski touring in which participants propel themselves across snow-covered मैदान using skis and poles.
The कार्यकलाप is popular in many places with large snowfields, primarily Northern Europe, Canada, and Alaska.
Cross-country skiing is भाग of the Nordic स्कीइंग sport family, which includes ski jumping, nordic संयुक्त ( cross-country skiing and ski jumping ), biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) और ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ).
cross-country skiing is the आधुनिक style of स्कीइंग कि most resembles prehistoric skiing, particularly when done in the backcountry.
It is also related to telemark स्कीइंग.
A use कर in संयुक्त States is complementary to sales tax which अर्थात्, if तुम ख़रीदे a taxable product/services without paying any Sales tax to विक्रेता, you owe use tax.
You जरूर self assess use कर and pay it directly to the state where the products यहूद consumed or services यहूद rendered.
उपयोग कर typically is a कर on consumption but if you buy an item ( without paying बिक्री कर ) and store it in your गोदाम initially, उपयोग कर applies to कि location where goods were भंडारित.
Later on when the final consumption takes place at some अन्य location, you are required to pay the अवकल of tax रेट to the jurisdiction of ultimate place of consumption.
This really means that you do n't have to अदा both Sales Tax as well as Use Tax on one transaction.
It is only one or the other that you हैं required to pay on खरीदें of taxable products/services.
If विक्रेता does n't charge any Sales tax on its invoice then it is the दायित्व of the buyer to self assess Use tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication.
Use Tax is generally charged at the same tax rate of Sales Tax but in some राज्य the tax rate is अलग.
Use कर is also termed as `` Consumption कर '' or `` Consumer Use Tax ''.
A use tax is a type of excise tax levied in the United States by numerous state सरकारें.
It is assessed upon tangible personal property purchased by a resident of the assessing राज्य for use, storage, or consumption in that state ( not for पुनर्विक्रय ), regardless of where the purchase took place.
If a निवासी of a राज्य makes a purchase within his home राज्य, full sales कर is paid at the समय of the लेनदेन.
the use tax applies when a resident of the assessing state purchases an item that is नहीं subject to his home state 's sales कर.
Usually, इस is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering items through the mail, by फोन, or over the Internet from other states.
The use tax is typically assessed at the same rate as the sales tax कि would have been owed ( if any ) था the same goods been purchased in the state of residence.
For example, a resident of Massachusetts, साथ a 6.25 % `` sales and use कर '' on certain goods and services, purchases non-exempt goods or services in New Hampshire for use, storage or अन्य खपत in Massachusetts.
Under New Hampshire विधि, the New Hampshire विक्रेता collects no बिक्री कर on the goods, लकिन the Massachusetts purchaser/user जरूर still pay 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use कर.
If the same goods are purchased in a us state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase, whatever कर were paid by the purchaser to that state can be deducted ( as a कर credit ) from the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent use, storage or consumption in मैसाचुसेट्स.
साथ few exceptions, no state 's vendors will charge the native state 's sales tax on goods shipped out of state, meaning all goods ordered from out-of-state are essentially free of sales tax.
The purchaser is therefore required to declare and अदा the use tax to his home राज्य on these ordered goods.
The assessing jurisdiction may make the use tax payable annually, but some states require a मासिक payment.
For example, जहाँ a Vermont resident रै नहीं paid at least 6 % बिक्री tax on property brought in for उपयोग in the state, Vermont law requires filing a tax वापसी ( Form SU-452 and payment ) by the 20th day of the माह following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 लेट fee, a 5 % penalty per माह, to a maximum of 25 %, plus statutory interest on the unpaid कर and penalties.
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or सरकारी agencies, purchases for resale in commerce, and purchases via `` casual बिक्री '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business.
भी note that there are thousands of tax jurisdictions in the U.S. and many have ever-changing lists of specific types of goods और services that हैं not taxable.
as an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts विधि requires payment of कर on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) तन्त्र purchased and डाउनलोड over the Internet for installation and उपयोग in Massachusetts, regardless of where it originates.
However, the actual use of the same software downloaded by a Massachusetts resident to a server in another state remains a non-taxed `` service ''.
In contrast, अरकंसास generally करता नहीं कर anything वितरित over the Internet ( such as डाउनलोड तन्त्र or music ), except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` दूरसंचार services ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` वितरित thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e., on डिस्क ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online, except `` custom तन्त्र for a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` programming services '' भी if delivered on a डिस्क.
In most cases, this complexity is भाग of the underlying sales कर laws ; लकिन while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the sales tax laws of इसके own स्थान, remote sellers have to deal साथ the use कर laws of many jurisdictions—up to every us state and locality that assesses them, if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ).
in medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an बढ़ाएँ of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery, pulmonary vein, or pulmonary capillaries, together ज्ञात as the lung vasculature, अग्रणी to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, and other symptoms, all of which are exacerbated by exertion.
pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and heart failure.
It was first identified by Dr. Ernst von romberg in 1891.
According to the most recent वर्गीकरण, it can be one of five different types : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or miscellaneous.
right
सही
Sanuk, a प्रभाग of Deckers Outdoor Corporation, is a footwear brand आधारित in दक्षिणी California.
Sanuk, the थाई word for fun, थी founded by Southern California native जेफ़ kelley when he started making चप्पल out of indoor-outdoor carpet.
the first product created was green carpeted and हकदार the `` Fur रियल '' बाद एक shop owner asked if the विलक्षणता sandal was `` लिये Real. ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores and not the intended लहरे shops.
The novelty act थी followed up by a sandal wrapped in तार mesh, a leopard छपाई version, and शैलियाँ बना out of a poncho material in a variety of colors.
sanuk has grown to include स्टाइल options for men, women and youth and is वितरित across the United राज्य और in over 50 countries throughout यूरोपीय, Asia, South America और Australia.
Sanuk centers itself around a positive lifestyle advocating the slogan, `` Smile, Pass it on ! ``.
In कंप्यूटर science, array programming languages ( also ज्ञात as vector or multidimensional भाषाएं ) generalize operations on scalars to apply transparently to vectors, matrices, और higher dimensional arrays.
Array programming primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस broad ideas about data manipulation.
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is not uncommon to find array programming language one-liners that require अधिक than a couple of pages of Java code.
APL, designed by Ken Iverson, was the first प्रोग्रामिंग language to provide array programming capabilities.
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming Language '' and not to arrays per se. Iverson 's contribution to rigor and स्पष्टता was probably अधिक important than the सरल extension of dimensions to functions.
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party, प्रायः an व्यक्तिगत, pays a life insurance company a single प्रीमियम that will later be distributed वापस to the insured party over समय.
annuity contracts traditionally provide a गारंटी वितरण of income over time, such as via fixed भुगतान, until the death of the person or व्यक्तियों नामित in the contract or until a final date, whichever comes पहला.
However, the majority of modern annuity customers use annuities तभी to accumulate funds free of income and capital gains taxes and to later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature.
अध्यक्ष Barack Obama.
Barack Obama with उसके पहला Supreme Court nominee, Sonia Sotomayor.
Following is a list of all संयुक्त राज्य federal judges appointed by President Barack Obama दौरान his presidency.
As of April 30, 2013, 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the संयुक्त States सीनेट, namely two Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States, 35 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district न्यायालयों.
25 further nominations are currently awaiting Senate action.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United राज्य Courts of Appeals, 67 vacancies on the United States district न्यायालयों और 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the समाप्त of Obama 's second पद.
Obama has not made any recess appointments to the federal courts.
Obama has made two nominations to the United States Court of International Trade, an Article III ट्रिब्यूनल.
Obama भी designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United राज्य Court of संघीय Claims, an Article I court, to be मुख्य Judge of that court.
This is a list of airports in Mexico, sorted by location.
मैक्सिको has about 1,834 airports, रैंकिंग 2nd in number of airports in North अमेरिका, and 3rd in the world.
Only major National and International Airports are shown.
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a security, usually a bond, issued by a u.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these agencies are backed but नहीं guaranteed by the us सरकारी since the agencies हैं private entities.
कुछ prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan विपणन Association ( Sallie mae ), Federal National बंधक Association ( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie मैक ).
Agency securities are usually exempt from state और local taxes, but not संघीय tax.
Agency कर्ज़ is also पुकारा an एजेंसी security.
The Susquehanna Steam इलेक्ट्रिक स्टेशन, a boiling water रिएक्टर.
The reactors are स्तिथ inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the front of the cooling मीनारें.
तीन nuclear-powered American warships, ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers USS Bainbridge and uss Long Beach with uss Enterprise the पहला nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964.
Crew members हैं spelling out Einstein 's mass-energy equivalence सूत्र E = mc2 on the flight deck.
the Russian nuclear-powered हिमभंजक NS Yamal on a 1994 joint expedition with the NSF.
Nuclear power is the use of sustained nuclear fission to generate heat and electricity.
नाभिकीय शक्ति plants provided about 5.7 % of the world 's उर्जा and 13 % of the world 's electricity, in 2012.
In 2013, the IAEA report that there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( हालांकि not all are producing electricity ), in 31 countries.
In जोड, there are approximately 140 naval बरतन using nuclear propulsion in operation, संचालित by some 180 reactors.
There is an ongoing debate about the उपयोग of nuclear energy.
Proponents, such as the World Nuclear Association, the IAEA and Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy contend that नाभिकीय power is a चिरस्थायी energy source that reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, ऐसे as ग्रीनपीस International and NIRS, मानना कि nuclear power poses many खतरे to people and the environment.
नाभिकीय power plant accidents include the Chernobyl विपत्ति ( 1986 ), Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster ( 2011 ), and the Three Mile Island दुर्घटना ( 1979 ).
There have also been कुछ nuclear-powered submarine mishaps.
Research into सुरक्षा सुधार is continuing and nuclear fusion, believed to be safer, may be used in the future.
As of 2012, according to the iaea, worldwide there were 68 सिविल nuclear power reactors अंतर्गत construction in 15 देशों.
In the US the licenses of almost हाफ इसके reactors have been extended to 60 years, and योजनाएँ to build another dozen हैं under serious consideration.
However, Japan 's 2011 फुकुशिमा Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a rethink of nuclear उर्जा नीति in many देशों.
Germany decided to बंद all its reactors by 2022, and Italy has banned नाभिकीय power.
Following Fukushima, the International Energy Agency halved its अनुमान of additional nuclear generating capacity to be निर्मित by 2035.
Photograph of the Berlin Wall taken इससे the West side.
The Wall थी built in 1961 to prevent ईस्ट Germans from fleeing from Communism.
It was an iconic symbol of the ठंडा War and its fall in 1989 marked the end of the War.
The Cold War, often dated from 1947 to 1991, was a sustained राज्य of political and military tension between powers in the पश्चिमी bloc, वर्चस्व by the United States साथ NATO among इसके allies, and powers in the पूर्वी bloc, dominated by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw अनुबंध.
इस began after the कामयाबी of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi जर्मनी, leaving the USSR and the US as two superpowers with profound economic and political मतभेद.
A neutral गुट arose with the Non-Aligned गति founded by Egypt, India, and Yugoslavia ; this faction rejected association with either the US-led वेस्ट or the Soviet-led ईस्ट.
The Cold War was so named because the दो प्रमुख powers—each possessing nuclear हथियार और thereby threatened with mutual assured destruction —never met in direct सैन्य कॉम्बैट.
Instead, in their struggle for वैश्विक influence वे engaged in जारी psychological warfare and in नियमित indirect confrontations through proxy युद्धों.
Cycles of relative शांत would be followed by high tension, which could have led to world war.
The tensest टाइम्स यहूद during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the कोरियाई War ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ), the Berlin Crisis of 1961, the Cuban missile संकट ( 1962 ), the Vietnam War ( 1959–1975 ), the योम Kippur War ( 1973 ), the सोवियत war in अफगानिस्तान ( 1979–1989 ), the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' नाटो military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions, strategic conventional force deployments, extensive aid to क्लाएंट states, espionage, massive propaganda campaigns, conventional and nuclear arms races, appeals to neutral nations, rivalry at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ), and technological competitions ऐसे as the Space Race.
the US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in the Third World countries of Latin अमेरिका, Africa, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia.
To alleviate the रिस्क of a potential nuclear war, both sides sought relief of राजनैतिक tensions through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the United States increased diplomatic, military, और economic pressures on the Soviet Union, at a time when the कम्युनिस्ट state was already suffering from economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the new सोवियत President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` खुलेपन '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures for national independence grew stronger in Eastern यूरोपीय, especially कैंडल.
They reached a breaking पाइंट when Gorbachev refused to use Soviet सैनिकों to support the faltering government of East Germany in लेट 1989.
Within weeks all the उपग्रह states broke free इससे मास्को in a peaceful wave of revolutions ( there was some violence in Romania ).
the pressures escalated inside the Soviet संघ, where Communism fell और the USSR थी formally dissolved in लेट 1991.
The United States remained as the world 's तभी superpower.
The Cold War and इसके events have left a significant legacy, और it is often referred to in popular culture, especially in media featuring विषयवस्तु of espionage और the threat of नाभिकीय warfare.
pikes Peak State Park is a state पार्क of Iowa, USA, featuring a bluff overlooking the Upper Mississippi River विपरीत the संगम of the Wisconsin नदी.
The park is operated by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
It is nearly a thousand acres ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
the निकटतम city is McGregor, Iowa.
Iowa Highway 76 approximately defines its northern boundary.
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes शिखर, a particularly ऊँची point overlooking the gorge of the Upper मिसिसिपी, और like Pikes शिखर in Colorado, is named for Zebulon Pike.
वहीँ are hiking trails, campgrounds और RV facilities.
पहाड़ bikes are permitted in certain portions of the पार्क.
Aside from recreational विकास, the land in the park was never cleared और to a large extent remains as it was before the आगमन of white उपनिवेश.
It is भाग of a larger जटिल of parks, reserves and refuges which include Effigy Mounds National Monument, the various components of the Yellow नदी State Forest, the enormous अपर Mississippi River नेशनल Wildlife and Fish शरण and much छोटी, much less well known Driftless क्षेत्रफल National Wildlife Refuge.
The पूर्वोत्तर Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing विकास, and will connect elements of these sites.
zac Brown Band is an American country/folk band based in Atlanta, Georgia.
The lineup consists of Zac Brown ( lead vocals, guitar ), Jimmy De Martini ( fiddle, vocals ), John Driskell हॉपकिंस ( bass guitar, vocals ), Coy Bowles ( गिटार, keyboards ), क्रिस Fryar ( drums ), Clay Cook ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ).
The band has toured throughout the United States, including a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music पर्व.
They have भी recorded five studio albums, and charted नौ क्रमांक One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken fried ``, `` Toes ``, `` Highway 20 Ride ``, `` फ़्री ``, `` As She 's Walking Away ``, `` colder Weather ``, `` Knee गहन ``, `` Keep Me In Mind ``, and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in addition to the singles `` whatever it Is `` and `` No Hurry ``, which peaked at number 2 on the same चार्ट.
Talk radio is a radio स्वरूप containing discussion about topical मुद्दे.
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single individual, और प्रायः feature interviews with a number of different guests.
बात radio typically includes an element of listener participation, usually by broadcasting live conversations between the मेजबान and listeners who `` कॉल in '' ( प्रायः via telephone ) to the show.
श्रोता contributions हैं usually screened by a show 's producer ( s ) in order to maximize audience interest and, in the case of commercial talk रेडियो, attract advertisers.
Generally, the shows are organized into segments, each separated by a pause for advertisements ; however, in पब्लिक or non-commercial radio, music is sometimes played in place of commercials to separate the program segments.
Variations of talk radio include conservative talk, hot talk, liberal talk and sports talk.
जबकि talk radio has historically been associated with AM/FM, starting around 2005 the technology for Internet-based talk-radio shows became cost effective in the form of podcasts.
अभी, it is possible लिये an individual to use a variety of services to host an internet-based talk-radio show without carriage by a traditional रेडियो स्टेशन.
In addition TV प्रोग्रामिंग इससे talk and न्यूज outlets such as BBC, CNN, Bloomberg and Fox are अभी प्रायः available expanding the world of talk radio further.
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed नहीं only on radios, but a wide variety of other devices and services including PCs using itunes, station directories ऐसे as Tunein, show directory स्मार्टफ़ोन with apps ऐसे as Stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the परिवार Hippidae, containing the following species:
Hippa adactyla Fabricius, 1787
hippa admirabilis ( Thallwitz, 1892 )
Hippa alcimede ( De Man, 1902 )
hippa australis Hale, 1927
Hippa carcineutes Holthuis & Manning, 1970
hippa celaeno ( de Man, 1896 )
Hippa granulatus ( Borradaile, 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( Dana, 1852 )
Hippa indica haig, Murugan & बालकृष्णन Nair, 1986
Hippa marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot, 1846 )
hippa ovalis ( A. Milne-Edwards, 1862 )
Hippa picta ( heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( Stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( miers, 1878 )
It is closely सम्बन्धित to the genus Emerita, and species have often महरूम transferred between the two genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially known as the Special पूंजी Region of जकार्ता ( ), is the capital और largest city of Indonesia.
Located on the northwest coast of जावा, Jakarta is the country 's economic, cultural and political केन्द्र, and with a जनसांख्यिकी of 10,187,595 as of नवम्बर 2011, it is the most populous city in Indonesia और in Southeast Asia, and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world.
The official metropolitan area, known as Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the initial syllables of Jakarta, Bogor, Depok, Tangerang and Bekasi ), is the दूसरी largest in the world, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it.
Jakarta is सूचीबद्ध as a global city in the 2008 Globalization and World Cities Study Group और Network ( GaWC ) शोध.
and रै an area of.
इस area has population of well over 28 million, making it one of the world 's largest conurbations in terms of number of inhabitants.
In 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the संसार 's 200 largest शहरों, a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171.
Jakarta has grown अधिक rapidly than Kuala lumpur, Beijing and Bangkok.
Established in the चौथी century, the city became an important trading port for the किंगडम of Sunda.
It was the de facto पूंजी of the Dutch East Indies ( जब it was known as Batavia ) and has जारी as the पूंजी of Indonesia since the देश 's independence was declared in 1945.
The city is the seat of the ASEAN सचिवालय.
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, हलीम Perdanakusuma अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, and Tanjung Priok harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter railways, and परोसा by several bus lines running on reserved busways.
A typical घर air कंडीशनिंग window unit.
Air conditioning is the process of altering the properties of एयर ( primarily temperature और humidity ) to more favourable conditions.
More generally, air conditioning can refer to कोई form of technological cooling, heating, ventilation, or disinfection that modifies the condition of air.
An एयर conditioner ( प्रायः referred to as air con, AC or A/C, and not to be confused with the abbreviation for alternating current ) is a major or home appliance, system, or mechanism designed to change the air temperature and humidity within an क्षेत्रफल ( प्रयुक्त for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ).
The cooling is typically done using a simple refrigeration cycle, but sometimes वाष्पीकरण is used, commonly for comfort cooling in buildings and motor वाहनों.
In construction, a पूरा प्रणाली of हीटिंग, ventilation and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 Foot 7 पैर '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by American rapper Lil Wayne featuring लेबल mate, Cory Gunz.
It is लिया इससे उसके ninth studio album, Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on iTunes on December 16, 2010.
It थी produced by `` A Milli `` producer Bangladesh.
The song samples `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) `` by हैरी belafonte.
DC बात ( styled as dc Talk ), is a Grammy -winning Christian rap trio.
The समूह was formed in Lynchburg, Virginia in 1987 by Toby mckeehan, Michael Tait, and Kevin Max Smith.
They have released पाँच major studio albums together : DC Talk ( 1989 ), Nu Thang ( 1990 ), Free at Last ( 1992 ), Jesus Freak ( 1995 ), and अलौकिक ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music called DC Talk `` the सबसे popular overtly ईसाई act of all time. ''
in 2000, the group released an EP titled Solo which contained two solo songs इससे each सदस्य.
चूंकि that time, DC Talk has been on an indefinite hiatus, and the तीन band सदस्यों have each led सोलो careers.
They have performed and recorded individual songs together अनेक times during the 2000s, although the group never officially reunited or disbanded.
The समूह 's musical style विकसित significantly throughout उनके career.
Their पहला दो रिलीज, dc Talk and nu Thang, were of the hip hop genre.
DC Talk 's third album, फ़्री at पिछला, also मुख्यतः took influence from the hip hop style, although their म्यूज़िक began taking on a rock sound.
the trio 's last two albums, Jesus freak and अलौकिक, यहूद predominantly pop चट्टान.
The Bible is a compilation of many shorter books written at different times and later assembled into the biblical canon.
सब but the shortest of these किताबे have been divided into chapters, generally a page or so in length, चूंकि the early 13th century.
Since the mid-16th century, प्रत्येक chapter has been further divided into `` आयतें '' of a few छोटी लाइनों or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse, as in the case of, and sometimes वहीँ is more than one sentence in a single verse, as in the case of.
As the chapter and verse divisions were not part of the original texts, they form part of the paratext of the बाइबल.
The यहूदी विभाजन of the यहूदी text differ at various points from those used by Christians.
For instance, in Jewish tradition, the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses, बनाना 116 more verses, whereas the established Christian practice is to count and number each psalm ascription together with the first श्लोक following it.
कुछ chapter divisions भी occur in different places, e.g. in Hebrew Bibles is numbered as in Christian translations.
An अनुक्रमणिका ( बहुवचन : indexes ) is a list of शब्द or phrases ( 'headings ' ) and associated pointers ( 'लोकेटरs ' ) to where useful material relating to that heading can be found in a document.
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings होगा शामिल names of लोगों, places and events, और concepts selected by a person as being relevant और of interest to a possible reader of the किताब.
The संकेतक are typically page numbers, अनुच्छेद numbers or खण्ड numbers.
in a library catalog the words are authors, titles, विषय headings, etc., और the संकेतक are call संख्याएँ.
Internet search engines, such as Google, और full text searching help provide access to information but are not as selective as an index, as they provide non-relevant links, और may miss relevant information if it is नहीं phrased in exactly the way वे expect.
In United राज्य वित्तीय विनियमन, a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a रपट made by a financial संस्था to the वित्तीय Crimes Enforcement संजाल ( FinCEN ), an agency of the United States विभाग of the राजकोष, regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity.
Facebook on the Ad-tech 2010
फेसबुक is an ऑनलाइन social networking service, whose name stems from the colloquial name लिये the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help विद्यार्थी get to know प्रत्येक other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with उसके कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and क्रिस Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard students, but was expanded to other कॉलेजों in the बोस्टन area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support for विद्यार्थी at various अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों before opening to ऊँची school students, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users जो declare themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो old to become registered users of the site.
उपयोक्ता must register before using the साईट, after जिससे वे may create a personal प्रोफ़ाइल, add other users as friends, and exchange messages, including automatic notifications when they update उनके प्रोफ़ाइल.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, school or college, or other characteristics, and categorize their friends into सूचियाँ such as `` लोगों From Work '' or `` बंद Friends ''.
As of September 2012, Facebook has over one billion active users.
according to a May 2011 Consumer रिपोर्ट्स survey, there are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In May 2005, Accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook, and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot.
A जनवरी 2009 compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used सोशल networking service by worldwide मासिक active उपयोक्ता.
entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' सूची, saying, `` How on earth did we stalk our exes, याद our co-workers ' birthdays, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, ऐसे as फेसबुक Detox, state that Facebook रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of समय lost and encouraging आत्ममोह.
quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly unique u.S. विज़िटर in May 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population had a फेसबुक account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's मार्केट growth started to stall in some regions, with the site losing 7 million active users in the United राज्य and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually दायर for an initial पब्लिक offering on February 1, 2012, and थी headquartered in Menlo पार्क, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the पब्लिक and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
Sulfonamide functional group
Hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide and a thiazide.
Furosemide is a sulfonamide, but not a thiazide.
Sulfonamide or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of दवाएँ.
The original जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or sulpha drugs ) are synthetic antimicrobial एजेंटों that contain the sulfonamide group.
कुछ sulfonamides are also devoid of antibacterial activity, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas और thiazide diuretics हैं newer ड्रग groups based on the antibacterial sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies हैं common, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing दवाएँ and additives, such as sulfates and sulfites, which are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group, और do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides.
This is a सूची of characters from George Lopez.
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are domesticated grey geese ( either ग्रेलैग Geese or swan Geese ) kept as poultry for their meat, eggs, और down feathers since प्राचीन times.
30 सेकेंड to Mars is an American चट्टान band from Los Angeles, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the band रै consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals, rhythm guitar, songwriter ), शैनन Leto ( drums, percussion ) and Tomo Miličević ( सीसे guitar, keyboards ).
Following the departure of Matt wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007, टिम kelleher became the bassist for the समूह, performing live only with both Jared and miličević recording बास for studio recordings, while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring लाइनअप in 2009.
Previously, the group भी प्रदर्शित guitarists Solon Bixler ( अभी of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ).
To date, 30 सेकेंड to Mars have released तीन studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ), A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ), This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions अंडरकवर ( 2007 ), To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ), and MTV unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to मंगल ' music has महरूम associated mostly with neo-prog, progressive metal and post-grunge, लकिन they have also शामिल emo, screamo, space rock and synthrock into their music.
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who were an influence on their work ) and Tool because of their उपयोग of philosophical और spiritual lyrics, concept albums and their उपयोग of experimental म्यूज़िक.
A क्रिसमस Story is a 1983 American Christmas कॉमेडी film आधारित on the short stories and semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of author and raconteur Jean Shepherd, based on his book In God We Trust, सब Others अदा Cash, साथ some elements निकला from Wanda Hickey 's Night of सुनहरी Memories.
It was directed by Bob क्लार्क.
The film has since become a अवकाश classic and is shown numerous times on टेलीविज़न during the Christmas season on the network TBS, often in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the film was selected लिये preservation in the National Film Registry by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस for being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
a Joe 's केकड़ा Shack शाखा in San Diego, CA.
The building was initially a rowing क्लबों and was later परिवर्तित into the restaurant.
Joe 's Crab shack is an American chain of beach-themed seafood कैज़ुअल डाइनिंग restaurants owned by Ignite रेस्तरां Group.
Founded in Houston, Texas, the restaurant now operates locations all आरपार the United States of America.
it serves seafood and अमरीकी cuisine.
The restaurants also have a gift दूकान that sells facetious t-shirts featuring phrases विज्ञापन Joe 's seafood choices.
it is based in Houston, टेक्सास.
New York City क्रूज लाइनर टर्मिनल in Hell 's रसोईघर at 52nd Street.
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also ज्ञात as the Luxury Liner Row or मैनहटन Cruise टर्मिनल or New York Cruise Terminal ) is a टर्मिनल for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side.
The terminal consists of North नदी Piers 88, 90, 92 and 94 on the हडसन River between वेस्ट 46th and West 54th Street.
( As a general rule, pier numbers in Manhattan can be determined by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street. )
Ships now dock at Piers 88, 90 और 92.
Pier 94 on the north side is now used for exhibition space.
बांध 86, once used by United States Lines, is now घर to the USS Intrepid.
in 2003, the terminal संभाला 900,000 passengers.
The नगर is forecasting that 1.5 million will use the terminal by 2017.
The piers are long and apart.
वे were first समाप्त in 1935 to replace the Chelsea Piers as the city 's luxury liner terminal.
The new terminal was built to हैंडल bigger ships that had outgrown the Chelsea Piers.
The piers were renovated in 1970 and are फिलहाल undergoing another $ 150 million renovation.
The renovated plans कॉल for it to handle three large ships at a time.
In doing renovations, the city is भी considering decommissioning Pier 92.
Logo of the New York Cruise terminal.for
decades the टर्मिनल was the only ocean-going यात्री terminal in New York हार्बर.
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to हैंडल comfortably तभी three विशाल ships at a time, two new terminals have opened in the हार्बर — the Cape Liberty Cruise बंदरगाहों opened in 2004 in bayonne, New Jersey ( प्रयुक्त by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, Celebrity क्रूज़ और Azamara Cruises ), and the Brooklyn Cruise टर्मिनल ( used by the Queen मरियम 2 and other जहाजों of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn, New York.
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to below वेस्ट 42nd Street because when the टर्मिनल was built land had to be लिया away from Manhattan to allow for longer पियर.
The US Army corps of Engineers, who control the waterfront dimension, would not extend the pierhead line farther into the river, so the city extended the pier by cutting away at the land.
The city earlier किया this for the चेल्सी Piers ; however in Chelsea तभी landfill was taken away.
At the Passenger Terminal actual Manhattan schist थी लिया away.
From downstream in the river
Many major passenger ships have docked वहीँ, सहित the rms महारानी Mary 2 and Freedom of the Seas, before the Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened.
The ss Normandie caught fire और subsequently capsized at its Pier 88 berth दौरान World युद्ध II.
The Normandie, renamed uss Lafayette, झूठ capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the शीत of 1942
Norwegian Cruise Line 's soon to be नवीनतम ship the Norwegian Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal.
The city will spend $ 4 लाख to renovate and upgrade the cruise terminal to accommodate the ship.
This is an overview of the नियमित, recurring, and अन्य characters of the TV श्रेणी ncis.
Christian right is a term used in the United States to describe right-wing Christian political groups that हैं characterized by their strong support of socially conservative policies.
Christian conservatives प्रधानतया seek to apply their understanding of the शिक्षाओं of Christianity to politics and public policy by proclaiming the value of those teachings and/or by seeking to use those teachings to influence law and public policy.
in the U.S., the Christian सही is an informal coalition formed around a core of धर्मान्तरण Protestants that draws `` support from politically conservative Catholics, Jews, Mormons, and occasionally secularists '' who share उनके goals.
The गति has its roots in American राजनीती going back as far the 1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s.
Their influence draws, in part, from grassroots activism as खूब as their focus on social issues और क्षमता to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The Christian right is notable आज for advancing socially conservative स्थितियाँ on issues including school prayer, stem cell शोध, homosexuality, contraception, abortion, और pornography.
Although the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S., the गति has been a key factor in the politics of Canada, the नीदरलैंड्स, Northern आयरलैंड and Australia, among others.
Far East गति ( stylized as Far★East गति or abbreviated FM ) is an अमरीकी hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles.
The group formed in 2003 और consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ), prohgress ( James Roh ), J-Splif ( Jae Choung ), and dj Virman ( Virman Coquia ).
Far East Movement 's first claim to कीर्ति was their song `` Round Round '' featured in the हॉलीवुड movie, The तेज़ और the Furious : Tokyo Drift, and its subsequent soundtrack, video खेल and DVD.
Since `` Round Round '', the group रै महरूम featured on विभिन्न network shows including,, Entourage, गपशप Girl, and Finishing the खेल ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ).
Their single `` Like a g6 `` hit number एक on the Billboard hot 100 चार्ट and on iTunes as well in लेट October 2010.
Far East Movement also रै the भेद of being the first asian-american group to earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the संयुक्त States.
lr44 is the IEC designation for an alkaline 1.5 volt बटन कोशिका, commonly used in छोटी LED flashlights, डिजिटल thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, clocks, toys and laser pointers.
LR44 alkaline cell
The battery nomenclature is defined by the International Electrotechnical आयोग ( IEC ) in इसके 60086-3 standard ( Primary batteries, part 3 Watch batteries ).
The letter L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a zinc negative electrode, manganese dioxide depolarizer and positive electrode, and an alkaline electrolyte.
R44 indicates a round cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm height as पारिभाषित by the IEC standard 60086.
Manufacturers have their own part संख्याएँ लिये IEC प्रकार LR44 batteries including:
LR44, LR44G, LR44GD, lr44h
LR1154, L1154, L1154C, L1154F, L1154G, L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 ( NSN )
1166A
AG13, A613, AG14, ag-14, G13A, g13-a
157, 303, 357
A76, GDA76, GP76A, GPA7, GPA75, gpa76, GPS76A,
1128mp, 208-904, A-76, CA18, CA19, CR44, D76A, KA, ka76, MS76H, px76a, PX675A, rpx675, RW82, SB-F9, V13GA
4.5-volt, D, C, aa, aaa, AAAA, A23, 9-volt, CR2032 and LR44 batteries
Other types of batteries are or were made in the R44 size.
Formerly, पारा batteries यहूद made as button cells ( types MR44 and NR44 ).
zinc-air batteries प्रकार PR44 require air to work.
silver-oxide batteries प्रकार SR44 may provide extra capacity compared to LR44 types but have slightly different voltage characteristics.
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide बैटरी may be degraded with substitution of LR44 types.
Manufacturer 's numbers for silver oxide R44 आकार cells include:
SR44/SR44W/SR44SW
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
SR1154
1107SO
1131SOP
sg13
S76
EPX76 ( Energizer )
303/357 ( D357H )
hurricane Katrina was the deadliest and most destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.
It was the costliest प्राकृतिक disaster, as खूब as एक of the five deadliest hurricanes, in the history of the United राज्य.
among recorded अटलांटिक hurricanes, it was the sixth strongest overall.
At least 1,833 people died in the hurricane and subsequent floods, making it the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane ; total प्रॉपर्टी damage was अनुमानित at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ), nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
Hurricane Katrina formed over the बहामा on August 23, 2005 और crossed southern Florida as a moderate श्रेणी 1 hurricane, causing some deaths and flooding there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico.
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5 hurricane over the warm Gulf water, but weakened before making its second landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, August 29 in southeast Louisiana.
It caused severe destruction along the Gulf coast इससे central फ्लोरिडा to Texas, much of it due to the storm surge.
the most significant number of deaths occurred in New Orleans, louisiana, which flooded as the levee system catastrophically failed, in many cases घंटों after the तूफ़ान had moved inland.
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, and the floodwaters lingered for weeks.
However, the worst property क्षति occurred in coastal क्षेत्रों, such as all मिसिसिपी beachfront कस्बों, which were flooded over 90 % in hours, as boats and casino barges rammed buildings, pushing गाड़ियाँ and houses inland, with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) इससे the beach.
The hurricane surge सुरक्षा असफलताओं in नई Orleans are माना the worst civil engineering विपत्ति in U.S. history और prompted a lawsuit against the U.S. फौज Corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers और builders of the levee प्रणाली as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965.
Responsibility for the failures और flooding was laid squarely on the Army Corps in January 2008 by Judge stanwood Duval, U.S. ज़िला अदालत, but the federal agency could not be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928.
There was भी an investigation of the प्रतिक्रियाएँ from federal, state and लोकल governments, resulting in the इस्तीफा of Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) director Michael D. Brown, and of नई Orleans Police विभाग ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie कम्पास.
अनेक agencies सहित the संयुक्त States Coast Guard ( USCG ), National Hurricane Center ( NHC ), और National Weather Service ( NWS ) यहूद commended for their actions.
They provided accurate hurricane मौसम tracking forecasts with sufficient lead time.
भी the most insistent appeals from national, state and local public officials to residents to evacuate before the तूफ़ान did not warn कि the levees could उल्लंघन और असफल.
U.S. debt इससे 1940 to 2011.
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public '' and black lines indicate the total नेशनल debt or gross public debt.
The difference is the `` intragovernmental debt, '' which includes obligations to सरकारी programs ऐसे as सोशल Security.
Stated as a formula, National Debt = Debt held by the Public + Intragovernmental Debt.
The second फलक shows the दो debt आंकड़े as a percentage of U.S. GDP ( डालर value of U.S. economic production for कि साल ).
The top panel is deflated so every year is in 2010 dollars.
The United States पब्लिक debt is the money उधार by the federal government of the United States through the issuing of securities by the Treasury और other संघीय government एजेंसियों.
US public debt consists of two components:
Debt आयोजित by the public includes Treasury securities आयोजित by investors outside the संघीय government, सहित कि held by individuals, corporations, the Federal Reserve प्रणाली and foreign, राज्य and local सरकारें.
कर्ज़ held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in accounts administered by the federal सरकारी that are owed to program beneficiaries, such as the सोशल Security विश्वास Fund.
Debt held by सरकारी खाते represents the cumulative surpluses, including ब्याज earnings, of ये खाते that have been invested in Treasury securities.
Public debt increases or decreases as a result of the annual unified budget deficit or surplus.
The federal सरकारी budget deficit or surplus is the difference between government रसीदें and spending, ignoring intra-governmental हस्तांतरण.
However, some spending कि is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt.
Historically, the US public debt as a share of GDP increased during wars and recessions, and subsequently declined.
For example, debt held by the public as a share of GDP peaked बस बाद World War II ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ), but then fell over the following 30 years.
In recent दशकों, however, large budget deficits and the resulting increases in debt have led to concern about the long-term sustainability of the संघीय सरकारी 's fiscal नीतियों.
On 2 April 2013, कर्ज़ held by the पब्लिक was approximately $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP.
Intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion, giving a combined total public debt of $ 16.805 trillion.
As of January 2013, $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the debt held by the पब्लिक was owned by foreign investors, the largest of जिससे were the People 's Republic of चीन and Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each.
In basketball, an assist is attributed to a player who गुजरता the ball to a teammate in a way that लीड to a score by field goal, meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket.
There is some judgment involved in deciding whether a passer should be credited with an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer even if the player who receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball.
however, the original definition of an assist did not include such परिस्थितियों, so the comparison of assist statistics across eras is a complex matter.
तभी the pass directly before the score may be गिने as an assist, so no more than one assist can be अंकित per field goal ( unlike in other sports, such as बर्फ hockey ).
A pass that leads to a shooting बेईमानी and scoring by free throws करता not count as an assist in the NBA, लकिन does in fiba play ( only एक assist is awarded per set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ).
Point guards tend to get the most assists per game ( apg ), as their भूमिका is primarily that of a passer and ballhandler.
Centers tend to मिलेंगी fewer assists, but centers with good floor presence and court vision can dominate a team by assisting.
होने inside the key, the बीच often has the best angles and the बेहतरीन स्थिति for `` dishes '' और other short passes in the scoring क्षेत्रफल.
Center Wilt Chamberlain led the NBA in assists in 1968.
A strong बीच with inside-scoring prowess, such as former NBA center Hakeem Olajuwon, can भी be an effective assistor क्युकी the defense 's double-teaming tends to open up ठोकर in the form of shooters.
the NBA single-game assist रिकार्ड is 30, held by Scott Skiles of the Orlando जादू against the Denver Nuggets, on December 30, 1990.
The NBA record for most career assists is held by जॉन Stockton with 15,806.
the mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK, when discussing property taxes in the संयुक्त States, or previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in accounting.
In the United States, it is a notional unit equivalent to of a United राज्य डालर ( a tenth of a cent ).
In the United किंगडम it was proposed during the decades of चर्चा on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling.
अनेक अन्य मुद्राएँ used the mill, such as the maltese lira.
The पद comes from the Latin `` millesimum '', meaning `` thousandth part ''.
the Greco-Persian Wars ( also often पुकारा the Persian युद्धों ) यहूद a series of conflicts between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia and city-states of the Hellenic world that प्रारंभ in 499 bc and lasted जबतक 449 BC.
The collision between the fractious political world of the Greeks और the enormous साम्राज्य of the Persians began when सायरस the Great conquered Ionia in 547 bc.
Struggling to rule the independent-minded cities of Ionia, the Persians appointed उत्पीड़क to rule each of उन्हें.
This would prove to be the source of much trouble for the Greeks and Persians alike.
In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to conquer the island of naxos, with Persian support ; however, the expedition was a क़हर and, pre-empting his dismissal, Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians.
This was the beginning of the Ionian Revolt, जिससे would last until 493 bc, progressively drawing more regions of एशिया Minor into the विरोध.
aristagoras secured military support from Athens and Eretria, और in 498 BC these forces helped to capture और burn the Persian क्षेत्रीय capital of sardis.
The Persian king Darius the Great vowed to have revenge on Athens और Eretria for this act.
The revolt continued, with the दो sides effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
In 494 BC, the Persians regrouped, and attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus.
At the Battle of Lade, the ionians suffered a निर्णायक शिकस्त, and the rebellion collapsed, with the final members being stamped out the following year.
seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the interference of the मेनलैंड Greeks, दारा embarked on a scheme to जीतें Greece और to सजा Athens and eretria for burning Sardis.
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 bc, with the Persian सामान्य mardonius conquering thrace and macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign.
In 490 BC a second force was sent to यूनानियों, this time across the Aegean Sea, under the command of Datis and artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the Cyclades, before besieging, capturing और razing Eretria.
However, while en route to attack एथेंस, the Persian force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of Marathon, ending Persian efforts for the time being.
Darius तब began to plan to complete the conquest of यूनानियों, but died in 486 BC और responsibility for the conquest passed to his बेटे xerxes I.
In 480 BC, xerxes personally led the second Persian आक्रमण of Greece साथ one of the largest ancient armies ever assembled.
Victory over the 'Allied ' यूनानी states ( led by Sparta and एथेंस ) at the Battle of Thermopylae allowed the Persians to torch Athens and overrun most of Greece.
however, while seeking to destroy the combined Greek fleet, the Persians suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis.
the following साल, the confederated Greeks went on the अप्रिय, defeating the Persian army at the Battle of Plataea, और समाप्ति the invasion of यूनानियों.
The allied Greeks followed up उनके success by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at the Battle of Mycale, before expelling Persian garrisons from sestos ( 479 BC ) और Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The actions of the सामान्य Pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated many of the Greek states from the spartans, and the anti-Persian alliance was therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership, as the so-called Delian League.
The Delian लीग continued to campaign against फारस for the next three decades, beginning with the expulsion of the remaining Persian garrisons इससे Europe.
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC, the League won a double victory that finally secured freedom लिये the cities of Ionia.
However, the League 's involvement in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 BC ) resulted in a disastrous defeat, और further campaigning was suspended.
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 BC, लकिन achieved छोटी, and when it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet end.
Some ऐतिहासिक sources सुझाएँ the समाप्त of hostilities was marked by a peace treaty between एथेंस and Persia, the so-called Peace of Callias.
hooverville near Portland, Oregon
a `` Hooverville '' is the popular name लिये shanty towns built by homeless people दौरान the Great Depression.
वे were named after Herbert हूवर, who थी President of the संयुक्त राज्य during the onset of the Depression and widely blamed for it.
The term was coined by Charles Michelson, publicity chief of the Democratic National Committee.
Matthew Michael hasselbeck ( born September 25, 1975 ) is an American football quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the sixth round of the 1998 NFL ड्राफ्ट by the Green Bay Packers.
After a season on the अभ्यास squad और दो seasons backing up Brett Favre, he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001.
hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, and led Seattle to six playoff appearances and a Super Bowl appearance ; he was selected to three Pro प्याले and an All-Pro selection.
Following ten सीज़न साथ the सीहॉक्स, hasselbeck joined the Tennessee Titans in 2011.
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the Indianapolis Colts in 2013 less than 24 hours after being released by the Tennessee Titans.
ICT is inevitably related to the कंप्यूटर network.
Information and संचार Technology or ( ICT ), is often used as an विस्तारित synonym for सूचना technology ( IT ), but is a more specific term that stresses the भूमिका of एकीकृत communications and the संयोजन of telecommunications ( telephone lines and बेतार signals ), computers as खूब as necessary enterprise software, middleware, storage, and audio-visual systems, which enable उपयोक्ता to अभिगम, स्टोर, transmit, and manipulate सूचना.
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s, but it became popular after it थी प्रयुक्त in a report to the uk government by Dennis Stevenson in 1997 and in the संशोधित नेशनल curriculum for England, Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000.
The term आईसीटी is now also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual और टेलीफोन networks with computer संजाल through a single cabling or link प्रणाली.
There are large economic प्रोत्साहन ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the टेलीफोन network ) to merge the audio-visual, भवन management and telephone network with the computer network system using a single unified system of cabling, signal distribution and प्रबन्धन.
the term Infocommunications is used in some मामले as a shorter form of information और communication ( s ) technology.
In fact Infocommunications is the expansion of दूरसंचार साथ information processing and content हैंडलिंग functions on a common digital प्रौद्योगिकी आधार.
For a comparison of these and अन्य terms, देखिए.
लिये ICT Development अनुक्रमणिका around the world, see.
This is a list of characters इससे George Lopez.
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the atom ; in Thomson 's mathematical मॉडल the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly, in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic structure involves a dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` बादल '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson, जो discovered the इलेक्ट्रॉन in 1897, was प्रस्तावित in 1904 before the discovery of the atomic केंद्रक in order to add the electron to the atomic model.
In this मॉडल, the atom is composed of electrons ( which Thomson still called `` corpuscles '', though G. J. stoney had प्रस्तावित कि atoms of electricity be पुकारा electrons in 1894 ) surrounded by a soup of positive चार्ज to balance the electrons ' negative charges, like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding ``.
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout the atom, but with many structures संभावित for positioning multiple electrons, particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ).
Instead of a soup, the atom was भी sometimes said to have had a `` cloud '' of positive charge.
With this model, Thomson abandoned उसके earlier `` nebular atom '' परिकल्पना in which the अणु was composed of immaterial vortices.
अभी, at least part of the atom was to be रचित of thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles, although the rest of the positively charged part of the अणु remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 Thomson model was disproved by the 1909 gold foil experiment of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden.
This थी interpreted by Ernest रदरफोर्ड in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very high धनात्मक चार्ज ( in the case of gold, पर्याप्त to balance about 100 electrons ), यूँ leading to the Rutherford model of the atom.
हालांकि gold has an atomic क्रमांक of 79, immediately after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van डेन Broek बना the सहज suggestion that atomic number is nuclear चार्ज.
The पदार्थ required प्रयोग to decide.
हेनरी Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) that the प्रभावी nuclear चार्ज थी very बंद to the atomic number ( Moseley found तभी one unit difference ), and Moseley referenced only the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford.
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the वही year, in which a nucleus containing an atomic क्रमांक of positive चार्ज is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital शेल.
Bohr had also प्रेरित Moseley 's work.
Thomson 's model was compared ( though नहीं by thomson ) to a अंग्रेजों dessert called plum खीर, hence the नाम.
thomson 's paper was published in the कूच 1904 edition of the philosophical Magazine, the leading अंग्रेजों science journal of the दिन.
In Thomson 's view :... the atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive electrification,...
In this model, the electrons were free to घूर्णन within the blob or cloud of positive substance.
ये orbits were stabilized in the model by the फैक्ट कि when an इलेक्ट्रॉन moved दूर from the center of the धनात्मक cloud, it felt a larger net positive inward force, because वहीँ was more material of opposite charge, inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ).
In Thomson 's मॉडल, electrons were फ़्री to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, and spectra were to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits.
Thomson attempted to मेक his model खाता for कुछ of the प्रमुख spectral लाइनों known for कुछ तत्व, but was not notably successful at this.
Still, Thomson 's model ( साथ साथ a समान Saturnian रिंग model for atomic electrons, also put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka बाद James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings ), were earlier harbingers of the बाद and अधिक successful solar-system-like bohr model of the अणु.
Typical strip of बेकन.
बेकन is a cured meat prepared from a सुअर.
It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a शुष्क packing ; the result is भैस bacon ( also ज्ञात as green bacon ).
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or months in cold एयर, or it may be boiled or smoked.
भैस and dried बेकन is typically cooked before eating.
Boiled bacon is ready to eat, as is some smoked bacon, but may be cooked further before खाने.
Bacon is prepared from several अलग कटौती of meat.
It is प्रायः made from side और back cuts of pork, मगर in the United States, where it is almost always prepared from pork belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` fatty '', or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ).
the side cut has अधिक meat and less fat than the belly.
Bacon may be prepared from either of two distinct back cuts : fatback, which is almost pure fat, and pork loin, which is very lean.
bacon-cured pork loin is known as back बेकन.
Uncooked pork belly bacon strips.
Bacon may be eaten smoked, boiled, fried, baked, or ग्रील्ड, or used as a minor ingredient to flavor dishes.
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, विशेषकर खेल, e.g. venison, pheasant.
The शब्द is derived from the Old High German bacho, meaning `` buttock '', `` ham '' or `` side of bacon '', and cognate with the Old French bacon.
In continental Europe, this भाग of the सुअर is usually not smoked like bacon is in the संयुक्त States ; it is used primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient, valued both as a source of fat and for its flavor.
in Italy, this is called pancetta and is usually पकाया in small cubes or served uncooked और thinly sliced as part of an antipasto.
मांस from other पशु, such as beef, मेमने, मुर्गा, goat, or तुर्कों, may also be cut, cured, or वरना prepared to resemble bacon, and may even be referred to as `` bacon ''.
Such use is common in areas with significant Jewish and Muslim populations.
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass '' ; other cuts and characteristics must be separately योग्य ( e.g., `` smoked पोर्क loin bacon '' ).
For सुरक्षा, bacon must be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by Trichinella, a parasitic roundworm which can be destroyed by heating, जमने, drying, or smoking.
Bacon is distinguished from नमक pork and ham by differences in the brine ( or शुष्क packing ).
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients, most notably sodium नाइट्राइट, और occasionally sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate ( साल्टपीटर ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate are added to accelerate curing and stabilize color.
flavorings such as brown sugar or maple हैं used for some products.
If used, सोडियम polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and reduce spattering when the बेकन is pan fried.
Today, a brine for ham, लकिन not bacon, शामिल a विशाल amount of शुगर.
Historically, `` हैम '' and `` bacon '' referred to अलग cuts of मांस that were brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel.
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( erisa ) (, codified in part at ) is a federal law which establishes minimum standards for pension plans in private industry और provides लिये extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans.
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of employee benefit plan participants and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial and other सूचना concerning the योजना to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of conduct for plan fiduciaries ;
providing for appropriate remedies and अभिगम to the federal courts.
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full body of laws regulating employee लाभ plans, जिससे are found mainly in the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself.
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the विभाग of Labor, the Department of the Treasury ( particularly the आतंरिक Revenue Service ), and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Illegal immigration to the United States is the अधिनियम of foreign nationals entering the United States, without सरकारी permission and in violation of United States nationality law, or staying beyond the termination date of a visa, also in violation of the law.
A चेतावनी sign at the international boundary between the United States and Canada in पाइंट Roberts, Washington.
A much different approach at the u.s.-mexico border near El पासो, Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the संयुक्त States in 2008 थी अनुमानित by the Center for Immigration Studies to be about 11 million people, down from 12.5 million people in 2007.
Other estimates range इससे 7 to 20 million.
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic बीच report, 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % were from other Latin American countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % were from Europe और Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent School District is a school ज़िला based in Alvin, Texas ( USA ).
एल्विन ISD is a large suburban school district दक्षिण of Houston in the communities of Alvin, Manvel, Pearland, Hillcrest, Rosharon, Iowa Colony, लिवरपूल, and Amsterdam.
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing पश्चिमी portion of the city including the new large master-planned communities of Shadow Creek ranch, South Fork, and Southern Trails.
Alvin ISD covers of land.
In इंसान anatomy, the ulnar nerve is a nerve जिससे रनों near the ulna bone.
The ulnar collateral ligament of elbow संयुक्त is in relation with the ulnar nerve.
the nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the इंसान body ( meaning unprotected by मांसपेशी or अस्थि ), so injury is आम.
इस nerve is सीधे कनेक्ट to the little finger, and the adjacent half of the ring finger, supplying the palmar side of these fingers, including both front और वापस of the tips, perhaps as far वापस as the fingernail beds.
एक method of injuring the nerve is to strike the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly, or inferiorly with the elbow flexed.
The ulnar nerve is trapped between the bone and the overlying skin at इस पाइंट.
This is commonly referred to as bumping one 's `` funny bone ''.
This name is विचार to be a pun, based on the sound resemblance between the name of the bone of the upper arm, the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous ``.
alternatively, according to the Oxford English Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar सनसनी experienced when it is struck ''.
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft और Wizardry, shortened हॉग्वार्ट्स, is a fictional अंग्रेजों स्कूल of magic लिये students aged ग्यारह to अठारह, and is the प्राथमिक setting for the first six books in j.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
Rowling रै suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ), which she had seen at Kew Gardens some time before writing the series, although the names `` the Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts स्कूल was voted as the 36th बेहतरीन Scottish शैक्षणिक establishment in a 2008 online ranking, outranking Edinburgh 's loretto School.
According to a director of the स्वतंत्र स्कूलों Network Rankings, it was added to the schools listing `` for fun '' and was तब voted on.
The u.S. subprime mortgage संकट was a set of कार्यक्रम and conditions कि led to a financial crisis and subsequent मंदी that began in 2008.
it was characterized by a rise in subprime mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures, and the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages.
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008, with significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and the onset of a severe global recession.
There यहूद many causes of the crisis, with टीकाकारों assigning different levels of blame to financial संस्थानों, regulators, credit agencies, government housing policies, and consumers, among others.
A proximate cause was the rise in subprime lending.
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given year रोज़ from the historical 8 % or निम्नतर दायरा to approximately 20 % from 2004 to 2006, with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S.
a high percentage of these subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 for example, यहूद adjustable-rate mortgages.
These two changes were part of a broader trend of lowered lending standards and higher-risk mortgage products.
Further, U.S. households था become increasingly indebted, with the अनुपात of कर्ज़ to disposable personal income rising from 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When U.S. home prices अस्वीकृत steeply after peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' ability to refinance their loans became more मुश्किल.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at उच्चतर ब्याज rates ( causing higher monthly payments ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, including subprime mortgages, widely held by financial firms globally, खोया most of their मान.
Global investors also drastically घटाया purchases of mortgage-backed debt और other securities as part of a decline in the capacity और willingness of the private financial system to support lending.
Concerns about the soundness of U.S. क्रेडिट and वित्तीय markets led to tightening credit around the संसार and slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe.
The संकट had severe, long-lasting consequences for the U.S. and यूरोपीय economies.
The U.S. entered a deep recession, with nearly 9 million jobs lost दौरान 2008 and 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. housing कीमतें गिरी nearly 30 % on average और the U.S. stock market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the U.S. stock मार्केट had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but आवास prices remained near their low point and unemployment remained elevated.
Economic growth remained below pre-crisis levels.
Europe also continued to संघर्ष with its own economic संकट.
Carl Jung in 1910.
Myers and Briggs extrapolated their MBTI theory from Jung 's writings in his book Psychological Types.
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI ) मूल्यांकन is a psychometric questionnaire designed to measure psychological preferences in how people perceive the world और make decisions.
These वरीयताओं were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by Carl Gustav Jung और first published in his 1921 book मनोवैज्ञानिक Types ( अंग्रेज़ी edition, 1923 ).
Jung theorized कि there हैं चार principal psychological functions by which we experience the संसार : sensation, intuition, feeling, and thinking.
One of these चार functions is dominant most of the समय.
The असली developers of the व्यक्तित्व inventory were Katharine Cook Briggs and her daughter, Isabel briggs Myers ; these two, having studied extensively the work of Jung, turned their interest of human behavior into a devotion of turning the सिद्धान्त of psychological types to practical use.
They began creating the indicator during World War II, believing that a knowledge of व्यक्तित्व वरीयताओं would help women who यहूद entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective ''.
The initial questionnaire grew into the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, which थी first published in 1962.
The MBTI focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the value of naturally occurring differences.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have specific preferences in the way we construe our experiences, and these preferences underlie our interests, needs, values, and प्रेरणा '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a song by American रिकॉर्डिंग artist महिला Gaga, from her second स्टुडियो album Born This Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope Records on April 15, 2011, four दिनों ahead of its scheduled release.
Written and उत्पादित by महिला Gaga and redone, `` Judas '' is a dance and इलेक्ट्रो house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past, and its core meaning refers to the ऋणात्मक parts of her life that she ca n't एस्केप.
गागा has further explained that the song was also परिचय honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the single was designed by Gaga in Microsoft शब्द.
In spite of a polarizing प्रभाव on several धार्मिक groups, the song was generally well received by critics, who likened the song to `` ख़राब Romance `` with कुछ noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks, सहित `` पोकर Face ``, `` lovegame ``, `` Bad रोमांस '', और `` Alejandro ``.
It contains तीन distinct hooks और a house -influenced ब्रेक down.
Gaga explained that the लाइनों spoken during the breakdown talk about उसके as beyond redemption, regarding the परंपरागत views of कया a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially था a strong sales opening, लकिन was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the शीर्ष ten of the चार्ट in सबसे major music markets, and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea.
A music वीडियो for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
it has a Biblical storyline where Reedus निभाई Judas Iscariot और Gaga played मरियम Magdalene.
the video portrays them as modern day missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying यीशु, and ended with गागा as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before इसके release, the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery and her भूमिका in the video.
However, critics generally praised the वीडियो, not finding any offensive content.
The वीडियो was nominated for two पुरस्कार at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
गागा has performed `` यहूदा '' on a क्रमांक of television shows, सहित The ग्राहम Norton Show, Saturday Night Live, Good Morning Americas `` गर्मियाँ Concert Series '', the फ्रेंच x Factor as well as on the Ellen DeGeneres Show.
Marvin gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born Marvin pentz Gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the ध्वनि of motown Records in the 1960s साथ a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( to Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I सुना It through the grapevine `` और duet recordings साथ Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' और `` Prince of आत्मा ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye अंकित the अवधारणा एल्बम What 's going On and Let 's Get it on and became among the first artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's later recordings बहकावे several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm और neo-soul.
Following a period in यूरोपीय under a tax exile in the जल्दी 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual healing `` and the मध्यरात्रि Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has been मरणोपरांत honored by many institutions, including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of कीर्ति.
The Academy Award लिये Best चित्र is one of the Academy Awards of मेरिट presented annually by the Academy of Motion चित्र Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to producers working in the motion picture industry and is the only category in which every सदस्य is योग्य to nominate for.
Best Picture is माना the सबसे important of the Academy Awards, as it represents all the directing, acting, music composing, writing, editing and other efforts put forth into a फिल्मी.
Consequently, Best Picture is the final award and the निष्कर्ष of the सालाना Academy Awards ceremony.
The ग्रैंड staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since 2002, showcase every film that रै won the Best Picture शीर्षक since the award 's inception 85 years ago.
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure video खेल created by French developer quantic सपना exclusively for the PlayStation 3.
The game is written और directed by Quantic Dream 's संस्थापक and CEO David Cage.
भारी Rains स्टोरी is a dramatic thriller modelled बाद film noir, featuring four protagonists involved with the mystery of the Origami Killer, a serial killer जो उपयोग extended periods of rainfall to drown his पीड़ितों.
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son इससे being the next victim, जबकि investigative journalist Madison Paige, एफबीआई profiler Norman Jayden, और private detective Scott Shelby are प्रत्येक trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity.
the खिलाड़ी interacts with the खेल by performing क्रियाएँ highlighted on screen related to motions on the controller, और in कुछ cases, performing a series of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences.
The player 's decisions and क्रियाएँ during the game will affect the narrative.
The प्रमुख characters can be killed, and certain actions may lead to different scenes and endings.
A playable demo was released on 11 February 2010.
The demo was released prior to इस date for people who took part in a Four Day Challenge on 5 February 2010.
A patch to allow उपयोग of the PlayStation Move controller to play the game was released in सितंबर 2010.
Heavy Rain was critically acclaimed and रै sold over two million copies.
It won 2010 's Game of the Year from CNN and Gaming Union, and Best PS3 Game of 2010 by gamespy और IGN.
A modified version of the game थी released titled Heavy Rain संस्करण Modifiée exclusively in France, aimed towards a younger दर्शक.
in 2010, the game was शामिल in the किताब 1001 Video Games तुम Must Play Before You Die.
Total superannuation industry देनदारी : members funds and reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988.
Annual कुल superannuation industry एसेट growth 1996-2005.
superannuation in Australia refers to the arrangements which people make in Australia to have निधि उपलब्धियाँ लिये them in retirement.
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया, superannuation इंतजाम are government-supported and encouraged, and minimum प्रावधानों are compulsory for कर्मचारी.
For example, employers are required to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries और मजदूरी ( currently 9 % ) into a superannuation fund, but people are encouraged to put aside additional निधि into superannuation.
The minimum obligation required by employers is set to increase to 12 % धीरे stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the conditions of release contained in Schedule 1 of the superannuation Industry ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994.
This is a list of the characters from the अमरीकी comedy-drama टेलीविज़न series The Game.
चुनावी College map showing the results of the 2012 U.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
President Barack Obama ( D - il ) won the लोकप्रिय vote in 26 states and the District of Columbia ( denoted in ब्लू ) to कैप्चर 332 चुनावी votes.
Former Governor Mitt romney ( R - ma ) won the popular vote in 24 राज्य ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 electoral मत.
Cartogram representation of the Electoral College vote for the 2012 चुनाव, with each square representing one electoral vote.
The United States Electoral College is the संस्था that officially elects the President and Vice President of the United States every four years.
The President और वाइस President are not elected directly by the voters.
Instead, they are elected by `` electors '' who are चुनी by popular vote on a state-by-state आधार.
Electors are apportioned to each राज्य and the District of कोलंबिया, लकिन नहीं to territorial possessions of the United States, such as Puerto Rico and Guam.
The number of electors in each state is बराबर to the number of members of Congress to जिससे the state is entitled.
The Twenty-third Amendment has always resulted in the District of कोलंबिया having तीन electors.
There हैं 538 electors, based on there being 435 representatives and 100 सीनेटरों, plus the three electors from the District of Columbia.
Electors हैं pledged to particular presidential and vice presidential candidates, हालांकि unpledged electors हैं possible.
In all states, मगर Maine and Nebraska, electors are elected on a `` winner-take-all '' basis.
That is, all electors pledged to the presidential candidate who wins the most मत in a state become electors for that state.
Maine and Nebraska उपयोग the `` congressional district method '', selecting one elector within each congressional district by popular vote and selecting the remaining दो electors by a statewide popular vote.
हालांकि no elector is required by संघीय law to honor a pledge, there have only महरूम very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge.
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President और Vice अध्यक्ष are elected and requires each elector to cast one vote लिये अध्यक्ष और another vote लिये Vice President.
Critics argue कि the Electoral कॉलेज is inherently undemocratic and gives swing राज्य अनुपातहीन influence in electing the अध्यक्ष और Vice President.
the Electoral College gives a numeric लाभ in the चुनाव of the president to the smaller states, as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of electors for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives.
On the other hand, the winner-take-all method of voting favors the larger states.
A number of constitutional amendments have महरूम proposed seeking to alter the Electoral College or replace it with a direct popular vote.
Barack Hussein ओबामा II ( ; born August 4, 1961 ) is the 44th and current President of the United States, the first अफ़्रीकी American to hold the दफ्तर.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, ओबामा is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School, where he was president of the Harvard विधि Review.
He was a community organizer in Chicago before earning उसके law degree.
He worked as a सिविल अधिकारों attorney in Chicago और taught संवैधानिक law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
He served तीन terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004, running unsuccessfully लिये the United राज्य House of प्रतिनिधि in 2000.
In 2004, Obama received नेशनल attention during his अभियान to represent Illinois in the United राज्य सीनेट साथ his victory in the March Democratic Party primary, his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in जुलाई, और his election to the सीनेट in November.
He began his presidential campaign in 2007, and in 2008, after a close primary अभियान विरूद्ध Hillary Rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential नामांकन.
he then defeated रिपब्लिकन nominee John मैक्केन in the general चुनाव, और was उदघाटन as president on जनवरी 20, 2009.
Nine months later, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected president in November 2012, defeating रिपब्लिकन nominee Mitt romney, and was sworn in for a दूसरी term on January 20, 2013.
Early in his first term in office, Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great Recession in the रूप of the American रिकवरी and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the कर Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job सृष्टि Act of 2010.
Other प्रमुख घरेलू initiatives in his presidency शामिल the Patient सुरक्षा and सस्ती Care Act, often referred to as `` Obamacare '' ; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer सुरक्षा Act ; the do n't Ask, Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget कंट्रोल Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer राहत Act of 2012.
In May 2012, he became the first sitting U.S. president to सरेआम support same-sex marriage and in 2013 his administration filed briefs which urged the परम् Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases.
In foreign policy, ओबामा ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq युद्ध, increased troop levels in Afghanistan, हस्ताक्षरित the New START बाहें control सन्धि with रूस, ordered U.S. military involvement in Libya, and ordered the सैन्य आपरेशन that resulted in the death of Osama बिन लादेन.
The होंडा cbr1100xx Super Blackbird थी a Honda motorcycle made from 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki निंजा ZX-11 as the world 's तीव्रतम production motorcycle, and होंडा succeeded with a top speed of.
Two years later the title passed to the Suzuki hayabusa, which reached.
The Blackbird is named after the Lockheed SR-71, also a गति record होल्डर.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health रिकार्ड based on बिंब
Sample view of an electronic health record
an electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य information about individual patients or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically capable of होने shared across different health care settings.
In कुछ cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information प्रणालियों और अन्य information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may शामिल a range of data, including demographics, medical history, दवा and allergies, immunization status, laboratory test results, radiology बिंब, vital signs, personal stats like age और weight, और billing सूचना.
The Mariner up on the mast in a storm.
एक of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave doré.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner ( originally The Rime of the Ancyent marinere ) is the longest major poem by the अंग्रेज़ी poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, written in 1797–98 and प्रकाशित in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads.
Modern संस्करण use a later revised version printed in 1817 that featured a gloss.
साथ with other poems in Lyrical Ballads, it was a signal शिफ़्ट to modern poetry and the beginning of British Romantic literature.
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines कैसा web browsers and other user agents can automatically choose the appropriate proxy server ( access method ) for fetching a given URL.
A PAC file contains a JavaScript function “findproxyforurl ( url, host ) ”.
This function returns a string with one or more access विधि specifications.
ये specifications कारण the user agent to उपयोग a particular प्रॉक्सी सर्वर or to connect सीधे.
अनेक specifications provide a fall-back when a proxy fails to respond.
The browser fetches this PAC file पहले requesting other URLs.
The URL of the pac file is either विन्यस्त manually or संकल्पित automatically by the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol.
zendaya कोलमैन ( born September 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as Zendaya, is an American अभिनेत्री, singer and dancer.
she सितारों on the डिज़्नी चैनल sitcom Shake It Up as Rocky Blue.
She has स्ट्रक्चर in दो films और played one of the lead roles in the फिल्मी Frenemies as Halley Brandon.
She voiced Fern in the Pixie खोखला खेल.
वो appeared in Good Luck Charlie as Rocky Blue और in a Good Luck चार्ली and Shake It Up crossover title चार्ली Shake It up.
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode `` चलना The Prank '' and on A.N.T. Farm as Sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT. ''
zendaya is भी a musician.
वो signed a deal with Hollywood Records on August 8, 2012 and started recording songs for her debut एल्बम on August 12, 2012.
वो released a single from an independent label called `` Swag it आउट `` and another single with Bella Thorne called `` Watch me, '' which is featured on the Break It Down एल्बम.
On March 20, 2012, zendaya और Bella Thorne released an album together called Shake it Up : Live 2 Dance, each have their own song on it, along with a mash-up of दोनो songs together as one.
On August 21, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an EP called Shake It Up : Made In जापानी.
Zendaya रै a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake, '' which is on the Disney Channel Holiday Playlist cd, which was released on October 2, 2012.
On March 5, 2013 the third Shake it Up साउंडट्रैक थी released, हकदार I < 3 Dance ; on it, Zendaya रै two गीतों with Bella - `` Contagious Love '' और `` This Is My नृत्य मंजिल '' - as well as one सोलो song, `` Beat of My Drum. ''
इस is a list of airports in Pennsylvania ( a u.S. राज्य ), grouped by type and sorted by location.
It contains all public-use and military एयरपोर्ट in the state.
Some private-use and former एयरपोर्ट may be included where notable, such as airports कि were previously public-use, those with commercial enplanements अंकित by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA विमानक्षेत्र code.
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a मोबाईल operating system developed and वितरित by Apple Inc. Originally released in 2007 for the iPhone and iPod Touch प्लेटफ़ॉर्म, it रै been विस्तारित to support other Apple devices such as the iPad and Apple TV.
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows Phone and google 's एंड्रॉइड, Apple does not अनुज्ञा iOS for installation on non-Apple हार्डवेयर.
, Apple 's app Store contained more than 700,000 आईओएस अनुप्रयोग, which have collectively been downloaded अधिक than 30 billion टाइम्स.
It had a 21 % share of the smartphone mobile operating system units shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012, behind only google 's Android.
In June 2012, it accounted for 65 % of mobile web data consumption ( including use on both the iPod Touch and the iPad ).
At the half of 2012, वहीँ were 410 million devices activated.
According to the special media event held by ठहराना on सितंबर 12, 2012, 400 million devices have महरूम sold through June 2012.
The user interface of iOS is based on the concept of direct हेरफेर, using multi-touch gestures.
Interface कंट्रोल elements consist of sliders, switches, and buttons.
बातचीत with the os includes gestures such as swipe, tap, pinch, and reverse pinch, all of which have specific definitions within the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आईओएस operating प्रणाली and its multi-touch interface.
आतंरिक accelerometers are प्रयुक्त by some applications to respond to shaking the यंत्र ( one आम परिणाम is the undo command ) or rotating it in three dimensions ( एक common result is switching इससे portrait to लैंडस्केप विधि ).
iOS is derived from OS X, with which it shares the Darwin foundation.
iOS is Apple 's mobile संस्करण of the os X operating system प्रयुक्त on Apple computers.
In iOS, there are four abstraction layers : the Core OS layer, the Core सेवाएं layer, the मीडिया layer, and the Cocoa टच परत.
The current version of the operating प्रणाली ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the device 's फ्लैश memory for the system partition, using roughly 800 MB of that partition ( varying by model ) लिये iOS itself.
iOS currently runs on iPhone, iPad, ipod touch and Apple TV.
The Plymouth superbird is famous for its extremely high rear wing.
1987 audi Sport QuattroS1 with its large wings at Pikes Peak
a spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic यंत्र जिनकी intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air movement आरपार a body of a गाडी in motion, usually described as turbulence or drag.
विघ्न on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams, because in addition to directing air flow they also reduce the राशि of air flowing underneath the गाडी which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag.
Spoilers are often fitted to race और high-performance sports cars, हालांकि वे have become common on passenger vehicles as well.
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily for styling उद्देश्य and have either little aerodynamic benefit or भी make the aerodynamics worse.
Spoilers for गाड़ियाँ हैं often incorrectly confused with, or the term used interchangeably with, wings.
ऑटोमोटिव wings are devices जिनकी intended design is to generate downforce as air passes around them, not simply disrupt existing airflow patterns.
मारियो, who serves as Nintendo 's mascot, is a fictional character created by खेल designer Shigeru Miyamoto and voiced by Charles Martinet.
This is a list of वीडियो games where the character Mario plays a part, either as the protagonist, antagonist, supporting character, as भाग of an ensemble cast, as a cameo, or in a game भीतर a खेल.
It does not include simple references to the character, such as the portraits of Mario मिला in The लेजेंड of Zelda : A कड़ी to the पास्ट.
The साल indicated is the year the game was first released, most commonly in Japan ; games were sometimes released years later in अन्य regions of the world.
The list includes पोर्ट, remakes and compilations.
It करता n't include any आभासी Console re-releases.
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I Am A Man of निरंतर Sorrow '' ) is a traditional American folk सोंग first अंकित by Dick Burnett, a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky.
The song was originally अंकित by Burnett as `` Farewell Song '' printed in a Richard Burnett songbook, circa 1913.
An जल्दी version was recorded by Emry आर्थर in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public ब्याज in the song was renewed after the रिलीज of the 2000 film O Brother, Where आर्ट Thou ?
, as it plays a central भूमिका in the फिल्मी 's plot.
The song was भी included in the film 's highly successful, multiple-platinum selling soundtrack.
Josephson junction array chip developed by the National Bureau of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the si derived unit for electric potential ( voltage ), electric potential difference, and electromotive force.
The volt is named in honor of the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827 ), जो invented the voltaic pile, possibly the first chemical battery.
A प्लैक commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( चित्र taken in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed इससे cyrillic to Latin script )
a plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination ( image लिया in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, वारिस presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and उसके wife, सोफी, Duchess of Hohenberg, were shot मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by gavrilo princip, one of a group of six बोस्नियाई serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the हत्या was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so वे could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the movement कि later became ज्ञात as Young Bosnia.
Serbian military officers stood behind the attack.
At the top of ये Serbian सैन्य conspirators was Chief of Serbian सैन्य Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević, his righthand man Major vojislav tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major tankosić armed the assassins with बम and pistols and trained them.
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses और agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the कुंजी members of the clandestine tunnel, and the key सर्बियाई military conspirators जो were still alive were गिरफ्तार, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who यहूद arrested in Bosnia were tried in साराजेवो in October 1914.
The अन्य conspirators were arrested and tried before a सर्बियाई kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the शीर्ष military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these दो trials and related रिकॉर्ड.
Assignment of responsibility लिये the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World युद्ध I one month बाद.
Mission San जुआन Capistrano was a स्पेनी मिशन in दक्षिणी California, located in present-day San Juan capistrano.
It was founded on All Saints ' Day November 1, 1776, by Spanish catholics of the franciscan Order.
Named for Giovanni da capistrano, a 15th century theologian and `` warrior priest '' who resided in the Abruzzo region of Italy, San Juan Capistrano has the distinction of being home to the oldest building in California स्टिल in use, a chapel built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel '' and `` Father Serra 's Church, '' it is the only extant structure where it has been प्रलेखित that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass.
एक of the बेहतरीन ज्ञात of the Alta California मिशन ( and one of the few missions to have actually been founded twice—others होने Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima concepción ).
The site was originally consecrated on अक्तूबर 30, 1775, by Father fermín Lasuén, but थी quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego.
The कामयाबी of the settlement is evident in its historical records.
Prior to the arrival of the प्रचारकों, some 550 natives were scattered throughout the local area.
By 1790, the number of converted Christians had grown to 700, and just six years बाद nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted that year अलोन, out of the total 4,639 souls converted between 1776 and 1847.
More than 2,000 former inhabitants ( mostly juaneño Indians ) are buried in unmarked graves in the मिशन 's cemetery ( campo santo ).
The remains of Father ( बाद Monsignor ) St. John O'Sullivan, who recognized the property 's historic value and working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures, are buried at the entrance to the cemetery on the west पक्ष of the property, and a प्रतिमा raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt.
the surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while सेवारत at the Mission : Fathers José Barona, Vicente fustér, and Vicente Pascual Oliva are all entombed beneath the sanctuary floor.
The Criolla or `` Mission grape, '' was first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the first wine produced in Alta California उभरा from the मिशन 's winery.
The Mission डाला a long period of क्रमिक decline बाद secularization in 1833.
Numerous efforts were made over the years to restore the Mission to इसके former glory, but none met साथ ग्रेट success until the आगमन of Father O'Sullivan in 1910.
Restoration efforts continue, and `` Serra 's चैपल '' is still used for religious services.
About half-a-million visitors, सहित 80,000 school children, come to the Mission each साल.
And जबकि the ruins of `` the Great Stone Church '' ( which थी all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a renowned architectural wonder, the मिशन is perhaps best known for the annual `` Return of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( संत Joseph 's Day ).
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a पसंदीदा subject for many notable artists, और has been immortalized in literature and on film numerous times, perhaps more than any other mission.
In 1984, a modern church जटिल थी constructed just north and west of the Mission compound and is अभी known as Mission Basilica San जुआन capistrano.
Today, the mission compound serves as a museum, with the सेरा Chapel भीतर the compound serving as a chapel लिये the मिशन parish.
बेहतर Off Dead is a 1985 American teen रोमांटिक कॉमेडी film starring John cusack and written and directed by Savage Steve Holland.
It tells the story of high school student Lane Myer who is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him.
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana superdome और commonly The Superdome ) is a खेल and exhibition stadium, located in the Central कारोबार District of New Orleans, Louisiana, यूएसए.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the नई Orleans modernist architectural firm of Curtis और Davis.
Its steel frame covers a expanse.
Its dome is made of a Lamella multi-ringed frame and has a diameter of, making it the largest fixed domed structure in the world.
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints, the ncaa 's प्रभाग I-A Tulane Green Wave football team ( the largest football स्टेडियम in सम्मेलन USA ), the State Farm bayou Classic, the R+L Carriers New Orleans Bowl, the Allstate Sugar Bowl and, every fourth year, the BCS National Championship Game.
Because of the size और location in one of the major tourist destinations in the United States, the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of candidates होने considered लिये major sporting events, such as the Super Bowl और the Final Four.
In 2005, the Superdome gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय ध्यान of a different type when it housed हज़ारों of people seeking आश्रय इससे Hurricane Katrina.
the building suffered extensive damage as a result of the तूफ़ान, और थी closed लिये many महीने afterward.
On October 3, 2011, it was announced that German automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased naming rights to the stadium.
The new name took effect on अक्तूबर 23, 2011.
It is the तीसरा stadium that has naming rights from Mercedes-Benz ( and पहला in the United राज्य ), after the Mercedes-Benz एरिना, the stadium of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart, in Stuttgart, Germany and the mercedes-benz एरिना in Shanghai, China.
Lobby of Jambo House
Giraffe on the savannah at Jambo House
Disney 's एनिमल Kingdom Lodge is an African-themed डीलक्स रिज़ॉर्ट at the Walt Disney संसार रिज़ॉर्ट.
It opened on April 16, 2001.
The रिज़ॉर्ट is owned and संचालित by Walt Disney Parks और Resorts.
डिज़्नी 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the Animal किंगडम Resort Area, adjacent to Disney 's Animal Kingdom.
It gives guests the opportunity to view चरने वन्यजीव outside their rooms and public क्षेत्रों in the resort within निकटता of the animals, conveying the feeling of being in an African savanna.
The People 's Party, also known as the `` Populists '', was a short-lived राजनैतिक party in the United States established in 1891 दौरान the Populist movement ( United States, 19th Century ).
it was most important in 1892-96, and then rapidly धुंधली away.
आधारित among poor, white cotton farmers in the South ( especially उत्तर कैरोलिना, अलबामा, और Texas ) and hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ), it represented a radical crusading form of agrarianism and hostility to banks, railroads, and elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor संघ, and in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed their presidential nominee, विलियम Jennings Bryan.
The terms `` populist '' और `` populism `` are commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in opposition to established interests and मुख्यधारा parties.
Linguistic map of सीरियल, Cameroon, and Benin.
Sign in English, outside the University of Lagos
There are hundreds of languages spoken in Nigeria.
The प्रमुख भाषाएं हैं Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, ईदो, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The आधिकारिक language of Nigeria, English, the former colonial language, was chosen to सुकर the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's urban elite, और is not widely spoken in rural क्षेत्रों, which comprise तीन quarters of the देशों population.
Nigeria 's भाषाई diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a पूरे, encompassing three प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं परिवारों : afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
सीरियल also has अनेक as-yet unclassified languages, ऐसे as Cen Tuum, जिससे may represent a relic of an even greater विविधता prior to the spread of the वर्तमान language families.
A series of events led to the attack on पर्ल Harbor.
War between Japan and the United States had been a सम्भावना that each स्वदेश 's military forces planned for since the 1920s, हालांकि real tension did not begin जबतक the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by जापानी.
Over the next decade, Japan expanded slowly into चीन, अग्रणी to सब out war between the दो in 1937.
in 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an effort to embargo all imports into China, including war supplies खरीदा from the U.S.
This मूव prompted the United States to embargo all oil exports, अग्रणी the Imperial Japanese Navy to estimate that it had less than two years of बंकर oil remaining और to support the मौजूदा योजनाएँ to seize oil resources in the Dutch East Indies.
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` Southern Resource Area '' to add it to the Greater East एशिया Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific.
The Philippine islands, at कि time an American territory, were also a जापानी निशाना.
The Japanese सैन्य concluded that an invasion of the फिलीपीन would provoke an American military response.
Rather than seize and fortify the islands, and wait for the inevitable US counterattack, Japan 's सैन्य leaders instead decided on the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor attack, which they assumed would negate the American forces needed for the liberation and reconquest of the islands.
Planning लिये the attack had begun in very early 1941, by Admiral isoroku Yamamoto.
He finally won assent from the Naval High Command by, among other things, threatening to इस्तीफा.
The आक्रमण was approved in the गर्मियाँ at an Imperial Conference and again at a second Conference in the पतन.
Simultaneously over the year, pilots were trained, and ships prepared for its execution.
प्राधिकार लिये the attack was granted at the second Imperial Conference if a diplomatic परिणाम satisfactory to Japan was नहीं पहुँचे.
After final approval by सम्राट Hirohito the order to attack थी जारी at the beginning of दिसम्बर.
A common office stapler
A common school stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device that joins चादरें of paper or similar material by ड्राइविंग a thin metal staple through the चादरें and folding the ends.
Staplers are widely used in सरकारी, business, कार्यालयों, घरों और schools.
The word `` stapler '' can actually refer to a number of different devices of varying uses.
In addition to joining पेपर sheets together, staplers can also be used in a सर्जिकल setting to join tissue together with surgical staples to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ).
Typically, most staplers हैं used to join multiple चादरें of paper.
Paper staplers come in two distinct types : manual and electric.
Manual staplers are normally hand-held, हालांकि models that are used while set on a desk or other surface are not uncommon.
Electric staplers exist in a variety of अलग डिजाइन और models.
Their primary operating function is to जुड़ें large numbers of paper sheets together in rapid उत्तराधिकार.
Some electric staplers can जुड़ें up to 20 sheets at a समय.
Swallowing, ज्ञात scientifically as deglutition, is the process in the human or animal body that makes something pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, और into the esophagus, while shutting the epiglottis.
If this fails and the object goes through the trachea, then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the human body it is controlled by the swallowing reflex.
thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – August 11, 1868 ), of Pennsylvania, was a leader of the कट्टरपंथी Republican faction of the Republican Party and a fierce प्रतिद्वन्दी of slavery.
He was one of the most influential members in the इतिहास of Congress.
As chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, स्टीवंस, a witty, sarcastic speaker and flamboyant party leader, dominated the हाउस इससे 1861 जबतक his death.
He wrote much of the financial legislation that सशुल्क for the अमरीकी Civil War.
स्टीवंस and Senator Charles Sumner were the prime leaders of the कट्टरपंथी Republicans during the war and पुनर्निर्माण era.
scholarly दृश्य of Stevens have swung sharply since his death as interpretations of Reconstruction have changed.
Historians of the Dunning स्कूल ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding हर्ष treatment of the white South and violating American traditions of republicanism, depicting स्टीवंस as a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
This highly negative characterization held sway into the 1950s.
the rise of the neo-abolitionist school in the 1950s led to a strong positive सराहना of Stevens ' work on सिविल rights for Freedmen.
A recent biographer characterizes him as, `` The Great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican leader in the struggles against गुलामी in the संयुक्त States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial इंसाफ for the freedmen during Reconstruction, the only member of the House of Representatives ever to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
Overview of the translation of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA and the synthesis of proteins by a ribosome
In आणविक biology and genetics, translation is the process through which cellular ribosomes manufacture प्रोटीन.
It is part of the process of gene expression.
in translation, messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by transcription is decoded by the ribosome to produce a विशिष्ट अमीनो acid chain, or polypeptide, कि will later fold into an active protein.
In bacteria, translation occurs in the cell 's कोशिकाद्रव्य, where the large and small subunits of the ribosome हैं located, and bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, अनुवाद occurs across the झिल्ली of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial संश्लेषण.
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of tRNAs with complementary anticodon sequences to कि of the mrna.
the tRNAs carry विशिष्ट amino acids that हैं chained together into a polypeptide as the mRNA passes through and is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to कि of a stock ticker और ticker tape.
in many instances, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the बाहरी membrane of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और releases the nascent प्रोटीन polypeptide inside लिये later vesicle transport and स्राव outside of the cell.
Many types of transcribed RNA, ऐसे as transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA, और small nuclear RNA, do not undergo translation into प्रोटीन.
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation, elongation, translocation and termination ( सब describing the विकास of the अमीनो acid chain, or polypeptide that is the product of अनुवाद ).
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes and समवेत into proteins.
in activation, the correct अमीनो acid is covalently bonded to the correct transfer RNA ( tRNA ).
The amino acid is joined by its carboxyl group to the 3 ' oh of the tRNA by an ester bond.
When the tRNA has an amino acid linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
दीक्षा involves the small subunit of the ribosome binding to the 5 ' end of mrna साथ the help of initiation factors ( IF ).
Termination of the polypeptide happens when the a site of the राइबोसोम faces a stop codon ( UAA, UAG, or UGA ).
No trna can recognize or bind to this codon.
बजाय, the stop codon induces the binding of a release factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex.
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, और puromycin, among others.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes, और thus antibiotics can specifically target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells.
A multimedia message on a मोबाईल phone.
Multimedia Messaging सेवा ( MMS ) is a standard रास्ता to send messages कि include multimedia content to and from mobile phones.
it extends the core sms ( Short Message सेवा ) capability that allowed exchange of text संदेश only up to 160 characters in length.
The most popular उपयोग is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets, हालांकि it is also popular as a method of delivering news and entertainment सामग्री सहित videos, pictures, text pages और ringtones.
The standard is developed by the Open Mobile Alliance ( OMA ), although दौरान development it was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups.
Smallpox was an infectious disease unique to humans, caused by either of two virus variants, Variola major और variola minor.
the disease is भी ज्ञात by the Latin names Variola or Variola vera, derived इससे varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ).
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox '' or `` red plague '' ; the पद `` smallpox '' was पहला used in Britain in the 15th सदी to फर्क variola from the `` great pox '' ( उपदंश ).
The पिछला naturally occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor ) was diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
Smallpox localized in small blood बरतन of the skin and in the mouth and throat.
in the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular rash और, later, raised fluid-filled blisters.
V. major produces a more serious disease and रै an overall mortality rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor कल्याणकारी a milder form of disease ( also known as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, and Cuban itch ) which kills about 1 % of its victims.
Long-term जटिलताओं of V. major संक्रमण include characteristic scars, commonly on the face, which occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
दृष्टिहीनता resulting from corneal ulceration और scarring, and limb deformities due to arthritis and osteomyelitis are less common complications, seen in परिचय 2–5 % of मामले.
Smallpox is believed to have emerged in human populations about 10,000 BC.
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the pustular खाज on the mummified body of Pharaoh Ramses V of Egypt.
the disease killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans annually दौरान the closing सालो of the 18th century ( including five reigning monarchs ), and was responsible for a third of all blindness.
Of all those infected, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died इससे the disease.
Smallpox was responsible for an अनुमानित 300–500 million deaths during the 20th सदी.
As recently as 1967, the संसार Health Organization ( जो ) estimated that 15 million people contracted the बीमारी and that two लाख died in that year.
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
Smallpox is one of two संक्रामक diseases to have been eradicated, the other being rinderpest, which थी declared eradicated in 2011.
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' is a song by the English rock band the Beatles.
Written by जॉन Lennon and पॉल McCartney, and recorded in October 1963, it was the first Beatles record to be made using four-track equipment.
With advance orders exceeding one million नक़ल in the United Kingdom, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would साधारणतया have gone सीधा to the top of the British record चार्ट on its दिन of release ( 29 November 1963 ) had it नहीं been अवरोधित by the group 's first लाख विक्रेता `` वो Loves You ``, the Beatles ' previous UK सिंगल, which was having a resurgent spell in the top स्थिति following intense मीडिया coverage of the group.
लेने two weeks to dislodge इसके predecessor, `` I want to Hold Your Hand '' ठहरे at number एक for five सप्ताह and remained in the UK top fifty for twenty-one weeks in total.
It was also the group 's पहला American क्रमांक एक, प्रवेश the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music उद्योग.
By 1 February it held the number एक spot — for seven सप्ताह — before being replaced by `` She Loves You '', a रिवर्स scenario of कया had occurred in Britain, and remained in the US चार्ट for a total of fifteen weeks.
`` i Want to Hold Your Hand '' became the Beatles ' best-selling single विश्वव्यापी.
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the United States in the late 1950s and continued until the जल्दी 1970s.
gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s, which have महरूम stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles are also lighter than an independent सामने suspension ), हालांकि a raised stock front suspension is common as well.
आम weight reduction techniques include fiberglass देह panels, stripped interiors and plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ).
क्युकी वे were primarily built for racing, these cars typically had the engine swapped to a larger or more powerful एक, the existing भण्डार इंजन modified ( प्रायः heavily ) or both.
It थी बहुत common to अनुरूप a Roots supercharger और mechanical ईंधन इंजेक्शन, such as one from Algon, Hilborn, or Crower.
With form being dictated by function, their रूप is often very top भारी and ungainly, largely due to front ends होने raised उच्चतर than stock, to assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ).
Having their exhaust पाइप exit through the front fender well is a common characteristic of gassers, as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes, pearls, और candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts.
The name arose because they competed in a gasoline -fueled drag racing class, rather than one using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the पूर्ववर्ती of the modern Funny Car.
Twelve-lead EKG of a 26-year-old male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical कार्यकलाप of the heart over a period of time, as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the स्किन and recorded by a यंत्र external to the body.
The रिकॉर्डिंग produced by इस noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ).
An ECG is प्रयुक्त to measure the rate and नियमितता of heartbeats, as well as the आकार and position of the कक्षों, the presence of any damage to the दिल, and the effects of दवाएँ or devices used to regulate the heart, such as a pacemaker.
Most ECGs are performed for निदान or research purposes on human hearts, but may also be performed on पशु, usually for diagnosis of heart abnormalities or research.
डोनाल्ड John ट्रम्प, sr. ( born June 14, 1946 ) is an American business magnate, television personality और author.
He is the chairman and president of The Trump Organization and the founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts.
ट्रम्प 's हद lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the NBC reality दिखाएँ The Apprentice have बना him a well-known celebrity who was No. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
Trump is the son of Fred Trump, a धनवान नई यॉर्क City real-estate developer.
He worked for उसके father 's firm, एलिज़ाबेथ Trump & Son, while attending the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and in 1968 officially joined the कम्पनी.
He थी दिए control of the company in 1971 and renamed it The Trump संगठन.
In 2010, ट्रम्प expressed an ब्याज in becoming a candidate लिये president of the United States in the 2012 election, though in May 2011, he announced he would नहीं be a candidate.
In दिसम्बर 2011, Trump was suggested as a possible vice अध्यक्षीय selection by Michele Bachmann, if वो were to win the Republican nomination.
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & b singer-songwriter Sam Cooke, written और first recorded in 1963 and released अंतर्गत the RCA Victor label shortly बाद his death in late 1964.
हालांकि only a modest hit for cooke in comparison with his previous singles, the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' सिविल अधिकारों Movement.
The song has gained in popularity and critical acclaim in the decades चूंकि इसके release, and is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All समय.
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is thermal energy generated and stored in the Earth.
Thermal energy is the उर्जा कि determines the temperature of matter.
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates इससे the original formation of the planet ( 20 % ) और from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
the geothermal अनुपात, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and इसके surface, drives a निरन्तर conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek जड़ें γη ( ge ), meaning धरती, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal उर्जा is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding cooler rock.
the high temperature and pressure कारण some चट्टान to melt, बनाना magma convection upward since it is lighter than the ठोस चट्टान.
the magma heats rock and water in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °f ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has महरूम used for स्नान since Paleolithic टाइम्स और for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is अभी better known for electricity generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in 24 देशों.
An additional 28 gigawatts of सीधा geothermal हीटिंग capacity is संस्थापित for district हीटिंग, स्पेस heating, spas, industrial प्रक्रियाओं, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, sustainable, and environmentally friendly, but has historically महरूम limited to areas निकट tectonic plate सीमाएँ.
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and आकार of viable संसाधन, especially for अनुप्रयोग such as home heating, opening a potential for फैली exploitation.
geothermal wells release greenhouse गैसों trapped deep भीतर the earth, but ये emissions are much निम्नतर per उर्जा unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a परिणाम, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal संसाधन are theoretically अधिक than adequate to supply humanity 's उर्जा needs, लकिन only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and exploration for गहन resources is very expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions परिचय technology, energy prices, subsidies, और interest rates.
Pilot programs जैसे eweb 's customer opt in Green Power Program दिखाएँ कि customers would be willing to pay a little अधिक for a renewable उर्जा source like geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted research and industry अनुभव, the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two दशकों.
In 2001, geothermal energy cost between two and ten cents प्रति kwh.
Ownership of property may be private, collective, or common and the property may be objects, land/real estate, or intellectual property.
Determining ownership in law involves determining who has certain rights and duties over the property.
These rights and duties, sometimes called a 'bundle of rights ', can be separated and held by different parties.
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient दार्शनिकों, प्लेटो and अरस्तू, who held different opinions on the subject.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) विचार private property created divisive inequalities, while Aristotle ( 384 BC – 322 bc ) विचार private property enabled people to receive the full benefit of their labor.
Private property can circumvent कया is now referred to as the “ tragedy of the commons ” problem, जहाँ people tend to degrade common property more than they do निजी property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a private प्रॉपर्टी system can make these tragedies worse—for example, a निजी owner of a piece of oil-rich property, depending on उसके worldview, might be more दिलचस्पी in short-term financial gain than incremental use with an eye toward other 's concerns ( e.g., those of future पीढियां, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
While Aristotle justified the existence of private ownership, he left open questions of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate property between what is निजी और आम and ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property भीतर society.
Over the millennia, and across cultures what can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the basis for many other concepts that form the foundations of प्राचीन and modern societies ऐसे as money, trade, debt, bankruptcy, the criminality of theft, and private vs. public प्रॉपर्टी.
Ownership is the कुंजी building ब्लाक in the development of the capitalist socio-economic system.
Adam Smith stated that one of the sacred laws of justice was to guard a person 's property and possessions.
the process and mechanics of ownership are fairly complex : one can gain, transfer and lose ownership of property in a number of ways.
To acquire property एक can खरीदें it with money, trade it लिये other property, receive it as a gift, steal it, find it, make, it or homestead it.
One can transfer or खोना ownership of property by selling it लिये money, exchanging it for other property, giving it as a gift, being robbed of it, it, or having it stripped from one 's ownership through legal means ऐसे as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
स्वामित्व is self-propagating in that the owner of कोई property will also own the आर्थिक benefits of that property.
`` What 's My नाम ? '' is a song recorded by barbadian recording artist Rihanna, for उसके fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ).
featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake, the सोंग was released as the second single from Loud on October 29, 2010 through Def Jam Recordings.
The R & b song थी produced by the Norwegian उत्पादन duo स्टारगेट, and थी written by the duo along साथ ester Dean, Traci Hale, and Drake.
Lyrically, it incorporates themes of sexual intercourse and romance.
Music critics gave the song positive reviews, citing it कुछ of रिहाना 's best गायन work to तिथि ; there थी a तारीफ़ regarding इसके romantic nature, as well as its यौन tones.
`` What 's my Name ? '' was a वाणिज्यिक success and topped the us Billboard Hot 100 chart, giving Rihanna her third number-one सिंगल in 2010, as well as her eighth overall on the chart.
The song also topped the charts in हंगेरियाई and the संयुक्त Kingdom and reached the top five in Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, नार्वे and Slovakia.
the song प्राप्त a nomination at the 54th Grammy Awards for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration.
an accompanying म्यूज़िक video, directed by Philip Andelman, portrays a romantic एनकाउंटर between Rihanna and Drake in a grocery store along साथ romantic दृश्यों between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's निम्नतर East पक्ष.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live प्रदर्शन across both sides of the अटलांटिक, सहित Saturday रात्रि सजीव in America and the series seven finale of The x Factor in the संयुक्त Kingdom.
The latter performance resulted in an investigation from the country 's media regulator, ofcom, for the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit.
a mathematical constant is a खास क्रमांक, प्रायः a real number, that is `` significantly interesting in some रास्ता ''.
स्थिरांक arise in many different areas of mathematics, with स्थिरांक such as e ( गणितीय constant ) | और pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as भूगोल, number theory and कलन.
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '', and what makes a constant `` interesting '', is ultimately a पदार्थ of taste, and some mathematical constants हैं notable more for historical कारण than for their intrinsic mathematical interest.
The more popular constants have been studied throughout the ages and computed to अनेक decimal स्थान.
All mathematical constants हैं definable संख्याएँ and usually are also computable numbers ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ).
Elections to the United राज्य Senate were held on November 2, 2010, for 37 of the United राज्य Senate 's 100 seats.
( A special election on जनवरी 19, 2010 in Massachusetts was held earlier in the year. )
Thirty-four of the seats were for six-year शर्तें to the सीनेट 's `` क्लास तीन '', and three were special elections for shorter terms.
Of the 37 elections, 19 प्रदर्शित incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or were defeated in the प्राथमिक ) and 18 featured incumbent Republicans ( eight of जिसको retired or were defeated in the primary ).
After the पिछला elections ( in 2008 ), the संयुक्त States सीनेट was composed of 58 Democrats, 40 Republicans, and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats.
republicans won four seats held by retiring Democrats and Republicans defeated two incumbent Democrats.
This was the largest number of republicans gains since the 1994 elections और also the first time चूंकि that election that Republicans successfully defended all of their own सीटे.
This was the fourth consecutive चुनाव of `` class 3 '' सीनेटरों where Democrats have विफल to gain seats and the third consecutive mid-term चुनाव held in a अध्यक्ष 's first term where Republicans have picked-up सीटे.
despite these Republican विन्स, however, the Democrats retained a majority of the Senate साथ 51 seats plus 2 independents who caucus with them, compared to the 47 republicans.
A संक्रांति is an astronomical event कि occurs twice each year as the Sun reaches इसके highest or न्यूनतम excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere.
As a परिणाम, on the day of the solstice, the Sun appears to have पहुँचे its highest or lowest annual ऊँचाई in the sky above the horizon at local solar noon.
the word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( सूर्य ) and sistere ( to stand still ), because at the solstices, the सूर्य stands still in declination ; that is, the seasonal movement of the Sun 's पाथ ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction.
The solstices, together with the equinoxes, are connected साथ the seasons.
In many cultures the solstices mark either the beginning or the midpoint of winter and summer.
The term संक्रांति can also be used in a broader sense, as the तिथि ( दिन ) जब this occurs.
The day of the संक्रांति is either the longest day of the year ( in गर्मियाँ ) or the shortest दिन of the year ( in winter ) for कोई place outside of the tropics.
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29, 1935 ) is an American rock and roll and country music singer-songwriter and pianist.
he is known by the nickname `` The Killer '' और is often viewed as “rock & फेंकें 's first great wild man”.
An early pioneer of rock and roll music, in 1956 लुईस made उसके first रिकार्डिंग at Sun Records.
`` क्रेजी Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the South, लकिन it was उसके 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that shot लुईस to fame worldwide.
लुईस followed इस in that वही year when he recorded गीतों such as `` Great Balls of आग ``, `` breathless `` and `` High School Confidential ``.
Lewis sold अधिक records than Elvis Presley at इस time.
However, लुईस ' rock 'n ' roll career faltered in the wake of his marriage to his young cousin.
He था little कामयाबी in the चार्ट following the कांड and his popularity quickly faded.
His live प्रदर्शन fees plummeted इससे $ 10,000 per रात्रि to $ 250.
In the meantime he was determined to gain back some of उसके popularity.
During the early 60’s he did n't have much chart success with few अपवाद such as `` What 'd I Say ``.
His live performances at this time यहूद increasingly wild and ऊर्जावान.
His album Live at the Star Club, Hamburg इससे 1964 is often regarded by many म्यूज़िक journalists and fans as one of the wildest and महानतम rock और फेंकें concert albums कभी.
After recording songs such as `` i 'm on Fire '' लिये अनेक years with छोटी success, in 1968 Lewis made a परिवर्तन into country music and had hits with गीतों such as `` Another प्लेस, another Time ''.
This reignited his career and throughout the late '60s and '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts.
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make Love Sweeter For You ``, `` There Must Be More to प्रेम Than This ``, `` Would You Take another Chance on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby mcgee ``.
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his चट्टान 'n ' roll past with songs such as a कवर of the Big bopper 's `` Chantilly फीता `` और `` Rockin ' My Life Away ``.
in the 21st सदी Lewis continues to tour to ऑडियंस around the world and still releases new albums.
One ऐसे album, titled पिछला Man खड़ा, is उसके best selling to date at over a million copies sold worldwide.
This was followed by Mean बूढ़ा Man which has received some of the बेहतरीन बिक्री of Lewis’s career.
लुईस has had a dozen gold records in both rock and country, जीती several Grammy awards, including a Lifetime उपलब्धि Award.
Lewis थी inducted into the Rock and फेंकें Hall of कीर्ति in 1986, and उसके pioneering योगदान to the genre has महरूम recognized by the rockabilly Hall of Fame.
In 1989, his life was chronicled in the movie ग्रेट गेंदें of Fire, starring Dennis quaid.
In 2003, Rolling Stone Magazine listed his box set All Killer, No Filler : The Anthology number 242 on their list of `` 500 महानतम albums of all time ``.
In 2004, वे ranked him number 24 on their सूची of the 100 महानतम Artists of All Time.
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million डालर Quartet and the Class of '55 album, which also included जॉनी नकदी, Carl Perkins, Roy Orbison and Elvis प्रेस्ली.
Henry Louis Stephens, untitled watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a समाचारपत्र साथ headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery ''.
The emancipation उदघोषणा was an order issued to all segments of the Executive branch ( including the Army and Navy ) of the United States by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, दौरान the American Civil War.
It was based on the अध्यक्ष 's संवैधानिक प्राधिकार as commander in chief of the armed शक्तियां ; it was not a law passed by Congress.
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free, और ordered the Army ( and all segments of the Executive branch ) to treat as free all those enslaved in ten states that यहूद still in rebellion, यूँ applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the u.s.
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas स्टिल under rebellion, but as the army took कंट्रोल of Confederate regions, the स्लेव in those regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters.
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had already been subdued were immediately emancipated, और over 3 million more were emancipated as the Union army उन्नत.
The Proclamation did not apply to the five स्लेव states that यहूद not in rebellion, nor to most regions already controlled by the Union फौज ; emancipation there would come after separate state actions and/or the December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth amendment, which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S.
the उदघोषणा did not compensate the owners, did not itself outlaw slavery, and किया not make the ex-slaves ( पुकारा freedmen ) citizens.
It made the eradication of slavery an explicit war goal, in addition to the goal of reuniting the Union.
On सितंबर 22, 1862, lincoln had जारी a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of सब slaves in कोई state of the Confederate States of America that did नहीं return to Union control by January 1, 1863.
None returned, और the order, हस्ताक्षरित and issued January 1, 1863, took effect except in locations where the Union had already mostly regained control.
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war, angered some उत्तरी डेमोक्रेट, energized anti-slavery शक्तियां, और weakened forces in Europe that चाही to intervene to help the Confederacy.
It also lifted the spirits of African Americans both in the Southern and Northern राज्य, and led to many slaves escaping their मास्टर्स और running behind Union लाइनों in order to have their emancipation enforced.
Sucker पंच is a 2011 American fantasy action film निर्देशित by zack Snyder and co-written by him and Steve Shibuya.
It is Snyder 's पहला film based on an original स्क्रिप्ट.
The film सितारों Emily Browning, Abbie Cornish, Jena Malone, वैनेसा हजेंस, Jamie Chung, and Carla Gugino.
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young woman who is committed to a mental institution, as she makes a plan to एस्केप the hospital before suffering a lobotomy.
the film थी released in both conventional and imax theatres in the United States at midnight on March 25, 2011.
It received generally ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, but was a मॉडरेट बक्सा office success.
Front and back of Canon PowerShot A95, a ठेठ pocket-size digital camera
Haselblad 503CW with Ixpress V96C digital back, an example of a professional digital camera system
A digital camera ( or digicam ) is a camera that takes video or still photographs by recording बिंब on an electronic image sensor.
Most cameras sold आज are digital, और digital कैमरे are incorporated into many devices ranging from PDAs and mobile phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles.
Digital and film cameras share an ऑप्टिकल system, typically using a लेंस with a variable diaphragm to focus लाइट onto an image pickup यंत्र.
The diaphragm and shutter admit the correct amount of light to the imager, just as with film but the image pickup device is electronic rather than chemical.
However, नापसंद film कैमरे, digital cameras can प्रदर्शक बिंब on a screen immediately after being अंकित, and store and delete images इससे memory.
Many डिजिटल cameras can also रिकार्ड चलती video with sound.
Some digital cameras can crop और stitch pictures and perform other elementary image editing.
The अंदर and front of a Dell PowerEdge web server, a computer designed for rack mounting
Multiple web सर्वर may be used for a ऊँची traffic website, here चार Sun Fire X4200 servers are installed together
वेब सर्वर can refer to either the हार्डवेयर ( the computer ) or the software ( the computer application ) that helps to deliver web content कि can be accessed through the अंतरजाल.
the most common use of वेब सर्वर is to host websites, but there are other uses ऐसे as gaming, data भंडार or कार्यशील enterprise अनुप्रयोग.
The American Red Cross ( चाप ), also known as the American National Red क्रॉस, is a humanitarian organization that provides emergency assistance, disaster relief and education inside the United States.
It is the designated U.S. affiliate of the International Federation of Red Cross और रेड Crescent Societies.
Today, in addition to domestic disaster relief, the American Red Cross offers services in five अन्य क्षेत्रों : community services that help the मोहताज ; communications services और सुकून for military members and उनके family members ; the collection, processing and distribution of रक्त and blood products ; शैक्षणिक programs on preparedness, health, and safety ; and international relief and development programs.
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of the United States कोड, Section 3001, the American National Red Cross is governed by स्वयंसेवक और supported by community दान, आय from health and safety training and products, and income from रक्त products.
The अमरीकी Red Cross is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
The Chairman of the Board of Governors, सेवारत her दूसरी three-year term, is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The वर्तमान President and Chief Executive Officer is गेल J. mcgovern.
A rooster in Kosovo
A rooster, showing wattles, earlobes और कंघी
a rooster crowing ( with ऑडियो )
सही
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or cock ) is a male gallinaceous बर्ड.
it usually refers to a पुरूष chicken ( Gallus gallus ).
Immature पुरूष chickens less than एक year old are called cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the United States, and the पद is widely used throughout North America, as well as ऑस्ट्रेलिया and New जीलैंड.
In the United Kingdom और Ireland the older term `` cockerel '' is more commonly प्रयुक्त.
`` मुर्गा '' is in सामान्य उपयोग as the name for a male of अन्य species of bird, for example `` Cock sparrow ''.
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching aloft to sleep at रात्रि, and is done by both sexes.
The rooster is polygamous, but can not guard several nests of eggs at once.
He गार्ड the सामान्य area where his hens are nesting, and will attack other roosters that डालें उसके territory.
During the daytime, he usually sits on a high perch, usually 3–5 feet off the ground to serve as a lookout लिये his flock.
He होगा ध्वनि a distinctive alarm call if predators are आसपास.
The Pokémon Trading कार्ड खेल ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video खेल series, first published in October 1996 by Media Factory in Japan.
In the us, it was initially published by wizards of the Coast, the कम्पनी that produces, in December 1998.
Nintendo took over publishing in June 2003.
it is एक of Nintendo 's last बाकी strong links to its heritage as a playing कार्ड company.
जमीन Rover is a British car manufacturer with its headquarters in Gaydon, Warwickshire, United Kingdom which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
it is part of the Jaguar Land Rover group, a subsidiary of tata मोटर्स of India.
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car ब्रांड in the world ( after Jeep ).
The Land Rover name was originally used by the Rover Company for one specific vehicle model, नामित simply the जमीन Rover, शुभारम्भ by Rover in 1948.
over the following years it developed into a marque encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive मॉडल, including the defender, Discovery, Freelander, Range Rover, Range Rover Sport and दायरा Rover Evoque.
Land रोवर्स are currently समवेत in the company 's Halewood and solihull plants, with research और development taking प्लेस at jlr 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres.
Land Rover sold 194,000 vehicles worldwide in 2009.
Although the brand originates from the original 1948 model, Land Rover as a company has only existed चूंकि 1978.
prior to this, it was a उत्पाद line of the रोवर Company which was subsequently absorbed into the Rover-Triumph division of the British Leyland Motor Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of Rover in 1967.
The ongoing commercial कामयाबी of the असली Land Rover series models, and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well प्रलेखित कारोबार troubles prompted the establishment of a separate जमीन Rover company but still under the BL छतरियाँ, बाकी part of the subsequent Rover समूह in 1988, under the ownership of British Aerospace after the remains of British leyland were broken up और privatised.
In 1994 रोवर Group plc was acquired by BMW.
In 2000, Rover Group was broken-up by BMW and Land रोवर थी sold to घाट Motor Company, becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group.
In 2006 घाट purchased the Rover brand from BMW for around £6 लाख.
इस reunited the Rover and Land Rover brands for the first समय since 2000 when the Rover group थी broken up by BMW.
In June 2008, Ford बेची both Land Rover and Jaguar Cars to Tata Motors.
This sale भी included the dormant रोवर ब्रांड
The कवर of the first DVD compilation released by Aniplex of The New कप्तान Shūsuke Amagai चाप
The ninth ऋतु of the Bleach anime series is named.
The series is आधारित on Tite Kubo 's manga साथ same name.
The एपीसोड are निर्देशित by Noriyuki Abe and produced by TV Tokyo, Dentsu, and Studio Pierrot.
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new Soul Reaper कप्तान, Shūsuke Amagai, and the mystery surrounding the kasumiōji clan, one of the families that constitute the nobility of आत्मा Society.
The season began airing on April 23, 2008 in जापानी on tv टोकियो and ended on October 7, 2008.
The अंग्रेज़ी adaptation of the Bleach दुश्मनी is licensed by viz Media, and this चाप began airing on अगस्त 28, 2010 on Cartoon Network 's Adult Swim, and finished on January 29, 2011.
Five DVD compilations, each containing four episodes of the season, have been released by Aniplex ; the first DVD संकलन was released on November 26, 2008 and the पांचवां on March 25, 2009.
A DVD box will be प्रकाशित by Viz मीडिया on दिसम्बर 13, 2011.
The episodes use three pieces of थीम music : one opening theme and two closing themes.
The opening theme is `` Chu-Bura `` by kelun.
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B, used for episodes 168 to 179, and the second closing theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku, used for the remainder of the episodes.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; अंतर्गत the Tenth amendment to the United States Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the डोमेन of the states to permit, prohibit, or वरना regulate commercial sex, मगर insofar as कॉंग्रेस may विनियमित it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the मन Act.
in most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of public order crime, a crime कि disrupts the order of a community.
it was at one time माना to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the शर्तें of which are stipulated in the Nevada संशोधित Statutes.
Only 8 counties currently contain active brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( जिससे contains the Las vegas–paradise महानगर area ), Washoe County ( which contains Reno ), Carson City, Douglas काउंटी, और Lincoln County.
The other काउंटी theoretically allow brothel prostitution, but some of ये काउंटी फिलहाल have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
As साथ other countries, prostitution in the United राज्य can be विभाजित into three व्यापक categories : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, और escort prostitution.
The East Coast of the United States, भी known as the पूर्वी seaboard or the अटलांटिक Seaboard and commonly shortened to East Coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean.
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast हैं, from north to south, the U.S. states of Maine, नई Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, नई यॉर्क, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
रिचर्ड Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – अप्रैल 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States, serving from 1969 to 1974, जब he became the only president to resign the दफ्तर.
Nixon had previously परोसा as a रिपब्लिकन U.S. representative and senator from कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th Vice अध्यक्ष of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in Yorba Linda, California.
He ग्रैजुएट इससे whittier कॉलेज in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat Nixon, स्थानांतरित to Washington to work लिये the federal government in 1942.
He subsequently परोसा in the संयुक्त States Navy during संसार युद्ध II.
Nixon was elected in California to the House of Representatives in 1946 and to the सीनेट in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss मामला established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, and elevated him to national prominence.
He was the running mate of ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower, the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
निक्सन served for eight years as vice अध्यक्ष.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy, and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he भागा again for the प्रेसिडेंसी और थी elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated अमेरिका 's involvement in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
निक्सन 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 खोली diplomatic relations between the two nations, और he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the सोवियत Union the same साल.
domestically, his administration generally embraced policies कि transferred शक्ति from वॉशिंगटन to the states.
Among other things, he शुभारम्भ initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs, imposed wage and price नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the चंद्र landings beginning with अपोलो 11, he scaled वापस manned space खोजी.
He थी re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
निक्सन 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of his वाइस president, Spiro Agnew, and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by सदस्यों of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing निक्सन much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the फेस of almost certain impeachment and हटाना from office.
After his इस्तीफा, he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald घाट.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक books and undertaking many विदेशी trips, helped to rehabilitate उसके public image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, and died four days बाद at the age of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft, Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
It was introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991.
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive, panic, and social anxiety disorders in both adults and children.
In 2011, it was the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. खुदरा market, with 37,208,000 prescriptions.
the efficacy of sertraline for depression is समान to that of older tricyclic antidepressants, but its side प्रभाव are much less pronounced.
मतभेद with newer antidepressants are subtler और also ज़्यादातर confined to side effects.
Evidence suggests that sertraline may work better than fluoxetine ( Prozac ) for some subtypes of depression.
Treatment of panic disorder with sertraline results in a significant घटी of the number of दहशत attacks and in improved quality of life.
For obsessive-compulsive विकार, sertraline is not as effective as cognitive behavioral therapy ; the best results have been achieved by combining these two उपचार.
Although approved for social phobia and posttraumatic stress disorder, sertraline leads to only modest improvement in these शर्तें.
Sertraline भी alleviates the लक्षण of premenstrual dysphoric disorder और can be used in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment.
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of other SSRIs, with high rates of nausea, diarrhea, insomnia, और sexual side प्रभाव ; however, it करता not cause वज़न लाभ, and its effects on both cognition और सतर्कता are relatively mild.
In pregnant women taking sertraline, the drug थी present in significant concentrations in fetal blood, और was also संबद्ध with a higher rate of various birth defects.
Similarly to other antidepressants, the use of sertraline for depression may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality.
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama film directed by Robert Townsend, जो co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans.
वितरित by 20th सदी Fox, the फिल्मी 's main cast includes Townsend, माइकल Wright, Leon रॉबिन्सन, Harry J. Lennix, Tico Wells, Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers, और diahann Carroll.
The plot of the film ( which is loosely आधारित on the lives of several कलाकारों : The dells, The Temptations, Four टॉप, Wilson पिकेट, James Brown, Frankie lymon, Sam cooke and अन्य ) follows the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five heartbeats.
the फिल्मी depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul अधिनियम through the eyes of the film 's प्रमुख protagonist, Donald `` Duck '' Matthews ( portrayed by Townsend ), who serves as a narrator throughout the फिल्मी.
However, a majority of the cinema is presented in a consecutive time line as opposed to traditional flash backs.
the film includes a significant amount of असली music conceived by various artists for the फिल्मी 's soundtrack, including singles such as `` A Heart is a House for Love ``, `` We Have n't Finished Yet '', and `` nothing But Love ''.
the film थी released to most North American audiences March 29, 1991 however it was नहीं बना available to audiences in other continents जबतक 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 लिये the film 's 15th anniversary.
The movie received mixed reviews from critics.
Secretariat ( कूच 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
he set रेस records in all तीन events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand आज.
He is considered to be एक of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all समय.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th century, the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He क्रमित second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the शीर्ष 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at The Meadow in Caroline County, Virginia.
Like his प्रसिद्ध predecessor Man o ' War, सचिवालय थी a large शाहबलूत colt और थी given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
स्वामित्व by Penny Chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte, साथ with apprentice jockey Paul फेलिसियानो ( first two races ), and दिग्गज Eddie मेपल ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, और weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
A ठेठ 12 V, 40 Ah lead-acid car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable battery कि supplies electric उर्जा to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting, lighting, ignition ) to शक्ति the starter motor, the lights, and the ignition system of a vehicle’s engine.
Automotive SLI batteries are usually lead-acid type, and are made of six galvanic cells in series to provide a 12 volt system.
प्रत्येक cell provides 2.1 volts for a कुल of 12.6 volt at full charge.
Heavy vehicles such as highway ट्रक or tractors, often equipped with diesel engines, may have two batteries in series for a 24 volt system, or may have parallel strings of batteries.
Lead-acid batteries are बना up of प्लेटों of lead and separate plates of lead dioxide, which are submerged into an electrolyte solution of परिचय 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % जल.
This causes a रासायनिक reaction that रिलीज electrons, allowing उन्हें to प्रवाह through conductors to produce electricity.
As the बैटरी discharges, the एसिड of the electrolyte reacts with the materials of the plates, changing उनके सतह to सीसे sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the chemical reaction is reversed : the lead sulfate reforms into lead dioxide and सीसे.
साथ the plates restored to their original condition, the प्रक्रम may अभी be repeated.
Battery recycling of automotive batteries reduces the need for resources required for manufacture of new batteries, diverts toxic lead from landfills, and रोकता रिस्क of improper disposal.
Full-time employment is employment in which a person works a minimum number of hours पारिभाषित as such by his/her employer.
Full-time नियुक्ति often comes with benefits that are नहीं typically offered to part-time, temporary, or flexible workers, such as annual leave, sickleave, and health insurance.
Full-time jobs are प्रायः माना careers.
They generally pay more than part-time jobs, and usually carry अधिक घंटों per week.
The Fair मजदूर Standards Act ( FLSA ) does not define full-time employment or part-time employment.
इस is a पदार्थ generally to be determined by the employer ( US Department of मजदूर ).
The परिभाषा by employer can vary and is generally published in a company 's कर्मचारी Handbook.
Companies commonly आवश्यकता from 30–35 or 40 hours per week to be defined as full-time और therefore eligible for benefits.
Full-Time status varies between company and is often based on the shift the employee must work during each work week.
the `` standard '' कार्य week consists of five eight-hour days, commonly served between 9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
While a four-day week generally consists of चार ten-hour days ; it may also consist of as छोटी as nine घंटों for a कुल of a 36 hour work week.
Twelve-hour शिफ्ट are often three days प्रति week, unless the company has the intention of paying out the employee overtime.
Overtime is legally paid out anytime an employee works more than 40 hours प्रति week.
The विधिक minimum for overtime starts at Base अदा + One-Half.
The increased payout is माना to compensate slightly for the increased fatigue which a व्यक्ति experiences on ऐसे long shifts.
Shifts can also be very irregular, as in retail, but are still full-time if the required क्रमांक of hours is reached.
There are some situations where a व्यक्ति who needs full-time work is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a रूप of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker.
seahorse is the शीर्षक given to 54 प्रजाति of marine fish in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` समुद्र monster ''.
The Controlled substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United राज्य as Title ii of the व्यापक ड्रग Abuse Prevention and Control अधिनियम of 1970.
The CSA is the federal u.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, उपयोग and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act भी served as the national implementing legislation for the सिंगल Convention on narcotic Drugs.
the legislation निर्मित five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications लिये a substance to be included in each.
Two federal एजेंसियों, the ड्रग प्रवर्तन Administration and the खाना and Drug प्रशासन, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, और कॉंग्रेस has sometimes scheduled other substances through विधान ऐसे as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an अपरिभाषित पद ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
Maya numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral system used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization.
the numerals हैं made up of three प्रतीकों ; zero ( शेल shape ), one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ).
For उदाहरण, तेरह is written as तीन dots in a horizontal row above two horizontal lines stacked ऊपर each अन्य.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after उसके service as the 37th Vice President of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four लोगों जो served in all four elected federal offices of the United राज्य : Representative, Senator, Vice अध्यक्ष, and President.
Johnson, a डेमोक्रेट from Texas, served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961, सहित six सालो as United States Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and दो as सीनेट Majority Whip.
बाद campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960, Johnson was पूछा by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate लिये the 1960 presidential चुनाव.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the हत्या of जॉन F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, समाप्त Kennedy 's पद and was elected अध्यक्ष in उसके own right, winning by a विशाल हाशिया over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
जॉनसन was greatly supported by the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी and as अध्यक्ष, he was जिम्मेदार for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that शामिल laws that upheld civil rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
जॉनसन was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment, '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to अग्रिम legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American भागीदारी in the वियतनाम War, इससे 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged bas.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities बाद 1965, and crime दरों soared, as his opponents raised demands for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire प्राथमिक, he ended उसके bid लिये reelection.
रिपब्लिकन Richard Nixon was निर्वाचित to succeed उसे.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the peak of modern उदारतावाद in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by कुछ इतिहासकारों क्युकी of his domestic policies.
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 steroid hormone involved in the female menstrual साईकिल, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) और embryogenesis of humans and अन्य species.
प्रोजेस्टेरोन belongs to a class of hormones पुकारा progestogens, और is the major naturally occurring human progestogen.
Big बर्ड is a protagonist of the children 's टेलीविज़न show तिल Street.
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall bright primrose-yellow bird.
He can roller skate, ice skate, नृत्य, sing, write काव्य, draw और भी ride a unicycle.
But despite this चौड़ी array of talents, he is prone to frequent misunderstandings, on one occasion even गायन the alphabet as one big long word ( इससे the song पुकारा `` ABC-DEF-GHI, '' सुनाया `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering what it could ever mean.
he जीवनदान in a large nest behind the 123 तिल Street brownstone और has a teddy bear named Radar.
webtrends is a private कम्पनी headquartered in Portland, Oregon, United States.
It provides web, social, and mobile analytics और other तन्त्र solutions related to marketing intelligence.
The company थी founded in 1993 and अभी serves more than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='intelligent एंटरप्राइज़ 2007-05-21 ' >
The दूसरी Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was the second प्रमुख crusade launched from Europe.
The Second Crusade was प्रारंभ in response to the fall of the County of Edessa the previous year to the forces of Zengi.
The county था महरूम founded दौरान the First Crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by baldwin of Boulogne in 1098.
While it थी the first Crusader state to be संस्थापित, it was also the first to fall.
the Second Crusade थी announced by पोप Eugene iii, and was the पहला of the crusades to be led by European kings, namely Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany, with help from a number of अन्य European nobles.
The armies of the two kings marched separately across Europe.
After क्रासिंग Byzantine territory into Anatolia, दोनो armies यहूद separately defeated by the Seljuq Turks.
The main Western ईसाई source, Odo of Deuil, and Syriac Christian sources claim that the Byzantine सम्राट Manuel i comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' प्रगति, particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them.
लुई and कोनराड and the remnants of their सेना reached Jerusalem and, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised attack on दमिश्क.
The crusade in the ईस्ट was a विफलता for the crusaders and a great victory for the Muslims.
It would ultimately have a key influence on the fall of जेरूसलम and दे rise to the Third crusade at the end of the 12th century.
The only कामयाबी of the दूसरी crusade came to a combined force of 13,000 Flemish, Frisian, Norman, English, स्कॉटिश, and German crusaders in 1147.
Travelling from England, by ship, to the पावन Land, the फौज रोका और helped the smaller ( 7,000 ) Portuguese army in the कैप्चर of Lisbon, expelling its मूरिश occupants.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as walmart, is an American बहुराष्ट्रीय retail corporation that runs chains of large discount department stores और गोदाम stores.
The company is the संसार 's third largest public निगम, according to the Fortune Global 500 सूची in 2012, the biggest private employer in the world with over दो million कर्मचारी, and is the largest retailer in the world.
Walmart remains a family-owned business, as the company is नियंत्रित by the वाल्टन परिवार, who own a 48 percent हिस्सेदारी in Walmart.
It is also one of the world 's most valuable companies.
The company was founded by Sam Walton in 1962, incorporated on October 31, 1969, and सरेआम traded on the नई York Stock एक्सचेंज in 1972.
It is headquartered in Bentonville, अरकंसास.
Walmart is also the largest किराना retailer in the संयुक्त States.
In 2009, it generated 51 percent of इसके US $ 258 billion sales in the U.S. from किराना business.
It also owns and operates the sam 's Club retail warehouses in North America.
By 1988, Wal-Mart was the most profitable retailer in the US, and by November 1990, it outsold K-mart.
By 1991 it outsold सियर्स in retail, making it America 's largest retailer, a distinction it still holds.
Walmart has 8,500 stores in 15 countries, अंतर्गत 55 different names.
The company operates अंतर्गत the walmart name in the United States, including the 50 states and Puerto Rico.
it operates in Mexico as Walmex, in the United Kingdom as Asda, in Japan as Seiyu, and in India as Best Price.
It has wholly owned operations in अर्जेंटीना, Brazil, और Canada.
walmart 's investments बाहर North America have had mixed results : its operations in the United किंगडम, दक्षिण America, and चीन हैं highly successful, whereas ventures in Germany and South Korea यहूद unsuccessful.
Robert William Gary मूर ( 4 अप्रैल 1952 – 6 फ़रवरी 2011 ), थी a Northern Irish musician, most widely recognised as a singer और guitarist.
in a करियर dating back to the 1960s, Moore played साथ artists सहित Phil Lynott and Brian Downey during his teens, अग्रणी him to सदस्यताएँ with the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions.
Moore shared the स्टेज साथ such blues and rock luminaries as B.B. King, Albert किंग, Colosseum II, George Harrison and Greg Lake, as well as having a कामयाब सोलो करियर.
He guested on a number of एल्बम recorded by ऊँची profile musicians, including a cameo appearance playing the lead guitar सोलो on `` She 's My Baby `` from Traveling Wilburys Vol. 3.
An example of rack आरोहित servers
a web होस्टिंग service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web होस्ट are कंपनियाँ that provide space on a server स्वामित्व or leased for use by क्लाइंट, as well as providing अंतरजाल connectivity, typically in a data बीच.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet लिये अन्य servers स्तिथ in उनके data बीच, called colocation, also known as Housing in Latin America or France.
The scope of web hosting services varies greatly.
The most basic is वेब page and small-scale संचिका hosting, where files can be अपलोड via File ट्रांसफ़र प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or a वेब interface.
The files are प्रायः वितरित to the वेब `` as is '' or with minimal प्रसंस्करण.
Many Internet सेवा providers ( isps ) offer this सेवा free to subscribers.
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page hosting from alternative service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the size and प्रकार of the website.
सिंगल page hosting is generally sufficient for personal वेब पृष्ठों.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package कि provides डेटाबेस support and अनुप्रयोग development platforms ( e.g. पीएचपी, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These सुविधाएं allow customers to write or install scripts for applications जैसे forums और content management.
Also, Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The मेजबान may भी provide an इंटरफ़ेस or control panel for managing the Web server और installing scripts, as well as other modules and service applications like e-mail.
कुछ hosts specialize in निश्चित software or सेवाएं ( e.g. e-commerce ), which are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare, `` to स्टैंड by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the परवाह of सब women 's reproductive tracts and their children दौरान pregnancy ( prenatal period ), childbirth and the postnatal period.
अनेक obstetricians are also स्त्रीरोग, meaning they perform in दोनो specialties.
in the संयुक्त States, these physicians हैं commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
The Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – जनवरी 30, 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – may 30, 1912 ), were two अमरीकी भाइयो, inventors, and aviation pioneers who were credited साथ inventing and building the world 's पहला कामयाब वायुयान and making the first नियंत्रित, powered and sustained heavier-than-air human उड़ान, on December 17, 1903.
From 1905 to 1907, the brothers विकसित their flying machine into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft.
Although नहीं the first to build and fly experimental aircraft, the Wright भाइयो यहूद the first to invent aircraft controls that बना fixed-wing powered flight possible.
The भाइयो ' fundamental breakthrough was their invention of three-axis control, which enabled the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium.
इस विधि became standard and remains standard on fixed-wing वायुयान of सब kinds.
From the शुरूआत of their aeronautical कार्य, the Wright brothers focused on developing a reliable method of pilot control as the key to solving `` the flying problem ''.
This approach differed significantly from other experimenters of the time who put more जोर on developing powerful engines.
Using a छोटी homebuilt wind टनल, the wrights also एकत्रित more accurate data than any before, enabling them to design and build विंग्स and propellers that were more efficient than any पहले.
Their first U.S. patent, 821,393, did नहीं अर्जी invention of a उड़ती यंत्र, but rather, the invention of a system of aerodynamic control that manipulated a flying यंत्र 's surfaces.
They gained the mechanical कौशल essential for their success by working for सालो in उनके shop with printing दबाता, bicycles, motors, and अन्य मशीनरी.
Their work with bicycles in particular influenced their belief that an अस्थिर vehicle जैसे a उड़ती machine could be controlled and balanced with practice.
From 1900 until उनके first powered flights in late 1903, they conducted extensive glider tests that also developed their skills as पायलटों.
Their bicycle shop employee चार्ली टेलर became an important part of the team, building their first वायुयान engine in close collaboration साथ the brothers.
The राइट brothers ' status as inventors of the airplane has महरूम विषय to counter-claims by विभिन्न parties.
Much विवाद persists over the many competing claims of जल्दी aviators.
America 's Next Top Model, Cycle 12 is the बारहवीं साईकिल of America 's Next Top Model and the छठे ऋतु to air on The CW संजाल.
It premiered on March 4, 2009.
The साईकिल 's कैच phrase is `` Get In The मोड़ें. ''
The cycle 's promotional song is Lady Gaga 's `` The Fame ''.
The prizes for this cycle are:
A modeling अनुबंध with Elite Model Management.
a fashion spread and cover in Seventeen.
A 100,000 contract with CoverGirl cosmetics.
The पहला half of the साईकिल took प्लेस in New York City, moving the show back from Los Angeles last season.
The international destination for this साईकिल is São पाउलो, Brazil, the series पहला विज़िट to South America.
the number of लड़कियों was reduced to 13, the first समय since Cycle 9, after being maintained at 14 in the पिछला two cycles.
This was the पिछला समय Paulina Porizkova participated as judge.
The winner was 20-year-old Teyona एंडरसन from woodstown, New Jersey.
इस ऋतु averaged 4.35 million viewers प्रति episode.
exxon Mobil निगम, or exxonmobil, is an American multinational oil and gas निगम headquartered in Irving, Texas, संयुक्त States.
it is a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's Standard Oil company, and थी formed on नवम्बर 30, 1999, by the विलय of Exxon and Mobil.
It is संबद्ध with Imperial Oil which operates in कनाडा.
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by revenue और in 2013, became the largest सरेआम traded company by market capitalization in the world.
The company is ranked # 5 globally in Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013.
exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and, at then ( 2007 ) rates of production, are expected to last over 14 years.
With 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a संयुक्त daily शोधन capacity of, Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the world, a title that was also संबद्ध with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870.
exxonmobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors with daily production of 3.921 million BOE ( barrels of oil equivalent ).
in 2008, this was approximately 3 % of संसार production, जिससे is less than अनेक of the largest state-owned petroleum कंपनियाँ.
When ranked by आयल and गैस reserves it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total.
a 2012 आलेख in The Daily Telegraph says that exxonmobil has `` grown into one of the planet’s most hated corporations, able to determine अमरीकी foreign नीति and the fate of entire nations ''.
In शर्तें of इसके पर्यावरणीय record, ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to them by dictatorships, ऐसे as those in Chad and Equatorial गिनी.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s chief कार्यपालिका until 2005, was `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and disliked सरकारी interference at any level ''.
The company was widely criticized for इसके slow response to cleaning its 1989 Valdez oil spill in Alaska.
This article is about the Globe Theatre of Shakespeare.
For the modern reconstruction in London, see Shakespeare 's Globe.
लिये other uses, देखिए ग्लोब Theatre ( disambiguation ).
The Globe Theatre थी a theatre in London associated with William Shakespeare.
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain 's मेन, on land owned by थामस Brend and inherited by his son, Nicholas Brend and पोता Sir Matthew Brend, and was नष्ट by fire on 29 June 1613.
A second Globe Theatre थी built on the same site by June 1614 और बंद in 1642.
A modern reconstruction of the Globe, नामित `` Shakespeare 's Globe ``, opened in 1997 लगभग from the साईट of the original थिएटर.
It 's a Wonderful जीवन is a 1946 American क्रिसमस drama फिल्मी produced and directed by Frank Capra, based on the short स्टोरी `` The Greatest Gift ``, which Philip Van Doren Stern wrote in 1939 and privately प्रकाशित in 1945.
The film is माना one of the most loved films in American cinema and has become traditional viewing during the क्रिसमस season, alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas कैरोल.
The film stars James Stewart as George बेली, a man who has given up his dreams in order to help others and जिनकी imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings परिचय the हस्तक्षेप of his guardian angel, Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ).
Clarence shows George all the जीवनदान he has touched and how different life in his community of Bedford Falls होता be had he never been born.
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to ऊँची production costs and stiff competition at the time of इसके रिलीज, the film has come to be regarded as a classic and is a staple of Christmas television around the world.
Theatrically, the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 million, approximately twice the production cost, a फिगर it never came close to achieving in its initial release.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the complete बक्सा दफ्तर failure that today everyone believes... it was initially a major disappointment and confirmed, at least to the studios, that Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see, money-making events they once यहूद. ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the अमरीकी Film Institute as एक of the 100 best American films ever made, placing number 11 on its initial 1998 greatest movie list, and would भी प्लेस number one on its list of the most inspirational American films of all समय.
Data Warehouse Overview
In computing, a data warehouse or enterprise data warehouse ( DW, DWH, or edw ) is a database used for reporting and data विश्लेषण.
It is a सेंट्रल repository of data which is created by integrating data इससे one or more disparate sources.
Data warehouses store current as well as ऐतिहासिक आंकड़ा and हैं used लिये creating trending reports लिये senior management रिपोर्टिंग such as सालाना and quarterly comparisons.
The data stored in the warehouse are अपलोड from the operational systems ( such as marketing, sales etc., shown in the figure to the right ).
The data may pass through an operational data store for additional operations before they are used in the dw for reporting.
The typical ETL -based data warehouse uses staging, data integration, and access परतों to house its कुंजी functions.
The स्टेजिंग layer or staging database stores raw data निकाली from each of the disparate सोर्स data systems.
The integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming the data from the staging layer प्रायः storing this transformed data in an operational data store ( ODS ) database.
The integrated data हैं then moved to yet another database, प्रायः called the आंकड़ा गोदाम database, जहाँ the data is arranged into hierarchical groups often called आयाम and into facts और कुल facts.
The combination of facts and dimensions is sometimes पुकारा a star schema.
The अभिगम परत helps users retrieve data.
A data गोदाम constructed from an integrated data सोर्स systems does not require ETL, स्टेजिंग databases, or operational data store databases.
the एकीकृत data source systems may be माना to be a part of a distributed operational data store layer.
Data federation methods or data virtualization methods may be used to access the distributed एकीकृत source data systems to consolidate और aggregate आंकड़ा सीधे into the data warehouse डेटाबेस tables.
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse, the integrated source data systems and the data गोदाम are all integrated चूंकि there is no transformation of dimensional or reference data.
This एकीकृत आंकड़ा warehouse architecture supports the drill down from the aggregate data of the data warehouse to the transactional data of the एकीकृत source data systems.
Data warehouses can be subdivided into आंकड़ा marts.
Data marts store subsets of data from a warehouse.
This definition of the data गोदाम focuses on data storage.
The प्रमुख source of the data is cleaned, transformed, cataloged and बना available for use by managers and other business professionals for data mining, online analytical processing, मार्केट research और निर्णय support ( marakas & o'brien 2009 ).
however, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform and load data, and to manage the data शब्दकोष are also माना अनिवार्य components of a आंकड़ा warehousing system.
अनेक references to data warehousing use this broader कॉन्टेक्स्ट.
Thus, an expanded definition for data warehousing includes कारोबार intelligence tools, tools to extract, transform and लोड आंकड़ा into the repository, and tools to manage and retrieve metadata.
Portland stone quarry on the Isle of Portland, England
An abandoned निर्माण aggregate quarry near Adelaide, South Australia
a quarry is a type of open-pit mine from जिससे rock or खनिज are extracted.
Quarries are generally used for extracting building materials, such as आयाम स्टोन, construction aggregate, riprap, sand, and बजरी.
वे हैं often collocated with concrete and डामर पौधे due to the requirement लिये large amounts of aggregate in those materials.
Open mines that produce minerals are typically referred to as open pit mines.
The word quarry can शामिल underground quarrying for स्टोन, such as Bath स्टोन.
mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to Mormonism, the principal branch of the latter Day संत movement of Restorationist christianity, which began with the visions of Joseph स्मिथ in upstate New यॉर्क दौरान the 1820s.
After Smith 's death in 1844 the Mormons followed ब्रिघम Young to what होता become the यूटा Territory.
Today Mormons are समझा to be members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ).
Some Mormons हैं also either स्वतंत्र or non-practicing.
The center of Mormon सांस्कृतिक influence is in यूटा, and North America has अधिक Mormons than any other continent, though the majority of Mormons live outside the United States.
Mormons have developed a दमदार भाव of communality that तना from their doctrine and history.
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a central geographic location, and between 1852 and 1890 a minority of Mormons openly practiced plural marriage, a form of religious polygamy.
Mormons dedicate large amounts of समय और resources to serving in their गिरिजाघर, और many young mormons चुनें to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
Mormons have a स्वास्थ्य code कि eschews alcoholic पेय, tobacco, कॉफी, tea, and अन्य addictive substances.
वे tend to be very family-oriented, and have strong connections आरपार generations and with विस्तारित family, reflective of their belief that families can be sealed together beyond death and throughout eternity.
Mormons also have a strict law of शुद्धता, requiring abstention from sexual संबंध outside of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage.
Mormons self-identify as ईसाई, though some of their beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity.
Mormons believe in the Bible, as खूब as other किताबे of scripture, such as the Book of Mormon.
They have a unique view of cosmology, and मानना that सब people हैं spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to परमेश्वर requires following the example of Jesus Christ, और accepting his atonement through ordinances ऐसे as baptism.
They believe that Christ 's church was लौटी through Joseph Smith, and is guided by living prophets and रसूलों.
Central to mormon faith is the विश्वास that परमेश्वर speaks to his children और जवाब उनके prayers.
In financial accounting, एसेट हैं economic resources.
anything ठोस or intangible that is capable of being स्वामित्व or controlled to produce value and कि is आयोजित to have positive economic मान is considered an asset.
बस stated, assets represent value of ownership that can be converted into नकदी ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ).
The balance चादर of a firm रिकॉर्ड the monetaryJ.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest जेब CPA '', Wiley, 2005.There are different विधि of assessing the मौद्रिक value of the एसेट अंकित on the संतुलन चादर.
In some मामले, the Historical Cost is प्रयुक्त ; ऐसे कि the value of the asset when it was खरीदा in the पास्ट is used as the monetary value.
In other instances, the present मेला market value of the asset is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
value of the assets owned by the firm.
It is money and अन्य valuables belonging to an व्यक्तिगत or business.
Two major एसेट वर्ग are ठोस assets and intangible assets.
Tangible assets contain various subclasses, including current assets और fixed assets.J.
Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 वर्तमान assets include inventory, while fixed assets include such items as buildings and उपकरण.J. Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` शब्दकोष of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial मार्गदर्शिका, 2003 ; और J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', wiley, 2005.
Intangible assets are nonphysical resources and अधिकारों that have a value to the firm because they give the firm some kind of advantage in the market place.
Examples of intangible एसेट are goodwill, copyrights, trademarks, patents and computer programs, and financial assets, including such items as accounts receivable, bonds and stocks.
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals.
a chemical signal occurs via a अन्तर्ग्रथन, a specialized connection with other cells.
Neurons connect to each other to form neural networks.
Neurons are the core components of the nervous system, which includes the दिमाग, spinal cord, और peripheral ganglia.
A number of specialized types of neurons मौजूद : संवेदी neurons respond to touch, ध्वनि, light and numerous other stimuli affecting cells of the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and दिमाग.
मोटर neurons प्राप्त signals from the brain and spinal cord, कारण मांसपेशी contractions, and affect glands.
Interneurons connect neurons to other न्यूरॉन्स भीतर the same region of the brain or spinal cord.
A ठेठ neuron possesses a cell body ( often called the soma ), dendrites, और an axon.
Dendrites हैं thin structures that arise from the cell body, often extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres and branching multiple times, giving rise to a जटिल `` dendritic tree ''.
An axon is a खास cellular extension that arises इससे the cell body at a साईट called the axon hillock और travels for a distance, as far as 1 मीटर in humans or even more in other species.
The cell देह of a neuron frequently gives rise to अनेक dendrites, but never to more than one axon, हालांकि the axon may branch सैंकड़ों of टाइम्स before it terminates.
At the majority of synapses, signals are भेजा from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another.
वहीँ are, however, many exceptions to these rules : neurons that lack dendrites, neurons कि have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All neurons हैं electrically excitable, maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by means of metabolically चलित ion पंपों, which combine with ion channels अंतःस्थापित in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular विशेषज्ञता differences of ions such as sodium, potassium, chloride, and कैल्सियम.
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the फलन of voltage-dependent ion channels.
If the voltage परिवर्तन by a विशाल enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action संभावित is generated, which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon, and activates synaptic connections with other cells when it arrives.
Neurons do नहीं undergo कोशिका division.
In most cases, neurons are generated by special types of स्टेम cells.
Astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have also been observed to turn into neurons by virtue of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two brain क्षेत्रों, the hippocampus और olfactory bulb, there is strong evidence for पीढी of substantial numbers of new न्यूरॉन्स.
Super Bowl xliii was an American football game between the American Football सम्मेलन ( AFC ) champion Pittsburgh Steelers and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 ऋतु.
The Steelers defeated the Cardinals by the score of 27–23.
The game was played on फ़रवरी 1, 2009, at रेमंड James Stadium in Tampa, Florida.
With this win, the Steelers became the first team to win six Super प्याले.
Pittsburgh, who finished the regular season with a 12–4 record, भी won their second Super कटोरी in चार सालो after winning सुपर Bowl xl at the end of the 2005 season.
the Cardinals entered the game seeking their first NFL title since 1947, the longest championship सूखा in the league.
The क्लबों became an unexpected winner दौरान the regular ऋतु, compiling a 9–7 record, and the playoffs with the aid of head coach Ken whisenhunt, जो थी the Steelers ' offensive समन्वयक in Super Bowl XL, and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt warner, who was the सुपर Bowl mvp in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team, St. Louis Rams.
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 halftime सीसे, aided by linebacker James Harrison 's Super Bowl record 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
Trailing 20–7 at the प्रारंभ of the fourth quarter, Arizona scored 16 unanswered points, सहित wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown रिसेप्शन, to लो the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game.
लकिन the Steelers marched 78 yards to score on wide receiver Santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
Holmes, जो caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown, including four receptions लिये 73 yards on that final game-winning drive, was named सुपर कटोरी mvp.
He became the छठे wide receiver to win the award, and also was the third Pittsburgh receiver to win the award, following Lynn swann and Hines Ward.
Despite the वैश्विक financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that are सामान्यतः held before the खेल, the एनबीसी television network broadcast attracted an औसत U.S. दर्शक of 98.7 million viewers, making it the most देखी Super Bowl in history to कि point.
A diagram of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum, showing various properties across the range of बारंबारता and wavelengths
the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम is the range of all possible frequencies of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or अवशोषित by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
the limit for long wavelengths is the आकार of the universe itself, while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length, हालांकि in principle the spectrum is infinite and निरन्तर.
सबसे parts of the electromagnetic spectrum हैं used in science लिये spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
in addition, radiation from various भाग of the spectrum रै found अनेक other उपयोग for communications और manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ).
Legend
Marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes ( land पौधे ) that do नहीं have सच्चा vascular tissue and are therefore called ' non-vascular plants '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport of water ; however since these do not contain lignin, they are not considered to be सच्चा vascular tissue.
फिलहाल bryophytes are विचार not to be a natural or monophyletic group ; however the name is convenient and remains in use as a collective term लिये mosses, hornworts, and liverworts.
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia and sporangia ), but they produce neither flowers nor seeds, reproducing via बीजाणुओं.
The पद bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant ''.
A bank is a financial institution and a financial intermediary that accepts deposits and channels those deposits into lending activities, either सीधे by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A बैंको is the connection between customers that have capital deficits and customers with capital surpluses.
Due to their influence within a financial प्रणाली and an economy, banks are generally highly regulated in most countries.
Most banks operate under a प्रणाली ज्ञात as fractional reserve banking where they hold only a small reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the बाकी for profit.
They हैं generally subject to minimum capital आवश्यकताएँ which are आधारित on an international set of capital standards, known as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei paschi di Siena, headquartered in Siena, Italy, which has महरूम operating continuously since 1472.
It is followed by Berenberg Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ).
Banking in its modern sense विकसित in rich cities of Renaissance Italy, such as फ्लोरेंस, Venice and Genoa.
in the history of banking, a number of banking dynasties —among उन्हें notably Medici, Fugger, Welser, Berenberg, Baring and Rothschild —have निभाई a सेंट्रल role over many centuries.
the एक्सबॉक्स is a video game console manufactured by Microsoft.
It थी released on November 15, 2001 in उत्तर America, February 22, 2002 in Japan, and March 14, 2002 in Australia and Europe.
It was Microsoft 's पहला foray into the gaming console market.
as part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the Xbox competed with Sony 's PlayStation 2, Sega 's dreamcast ( which stopped American sales before the Xbox went on बिक्री ), and निन्टेंडो 's GameCube.
The Xbox was the पहला console offered by an अमरीकी company after the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996.
The integrated Xbox सजीव service launched in November 2002 allowed players to खेल games online with a ब्रॉडबैंड connection.
It first competed साथ Dreamcast 's online service but बाद primarily competed with PlayStation 2 's ऑनलाइन सेवा.
Although these two are free while Xbox सजीव जरूरी a subscription, as well as broadband-only connection जिससे was not completely adopted yet, Xbox Live was a कामयाबी due to बेहतर servers, features such as a buddy list, and milestone titles like हेलो 2 released in नवम्बर 2004, which is the best-selling Xbox video game and थी by far the most popular online game for years.
Xbox 's successor, the एक्सबॉक्स 360, थी शुभारम्भ in नवम्बर 2005.
The Xbox was discontinued in late 2005 in Japan where sales were poor.
It was discontinued in late 2006 in Europe and early 2007 in North America.
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's Project 8 released in November 2006, and the पिछला game in North America was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008.
support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2, 2009, stating that any in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken.
Xbox access to Xbox Live was stopped on अप्रैल 15, 2010.
The इन्जील According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the इन्जील of John or simply John and often referred to in New Testament scholarship as the चौथी इन्जील, is an account of the पब्लिक ministry of यीशु.
It begins साथ the witness and affirmation by John the Baptist and concludes with the मौत, burial, resurrection, and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus.
This account is fourth of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics Matthew, Mark and ल्यूक.
states that the book derives from the testimony of the ' शिष्य जिसको Jesus loved. '
साथ with Peter, the unnamed disciple is especially close to यीशु, and early-church tradition identified him as जॉन the Apostle, one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles.
the gospel is closely सम्बन्धित in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that commentators treat the four books together, yet, according to most modern scholars, जॉन was not the author of any of these books.
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more and अधिक has placed John within a first-century यहूदी context.
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering कार्य to trace the development of the परंपरा from which the इन्जील arose.
The प्रवचन seem to be concerned with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the इन्जील was written.
It is notable that, in the gospel, the community still appears to define itself primarily against Judaism, rather than as part of a wider ईसाई church.
Though Christianity started as a movement within Judaism, gradually Christians and यहूदियों became bitterly opposed.
जॉन presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, meaning that it describes Jesus as the incarnation of the divine लोगो through जिसको all things were made, as the object of veneration, and more explicitly as God incarnate.
तभी in John does Jesus talk at length about himself and उसके divine भूमिका, often shared with the disciples only.
Against the synoptics, John focuses largely on different miracles ( including resurrecting Lazarus ), given as signs meant to engender faith.
Synoptic elements ऐसे as parables and exorcisms are not मिला in John.
It presents a एहसास eschatology in जिससे salvation is already present for the believer.
The Plagues of Egypt ( ), also called the Ten plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, were ten calamities that, according to the biblical Book of Exodus, Israel 's God, Yahweh, inflicted upon Egypt to राजी Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery.
pharaoh capitulated after the tenth plague, triggering the Exodus of the Jewish people.
The plagues were designed to contrast the शक्ति of Yahweh with the impotence of Egypt 's various देवताओं.
Some टीकाकारों have associated अनेक of the plagues with judgment on विशिष्ट gods associated with the Nile, fertility and प्राकृतिक phenomena.
The plagues of Egypt are भी mentioned in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the Book of Exodus, God proclaims that all the देवताओं of Egypt होगा be judged through the दसवाँ and final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the plague of hail and fire ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( आरपीजी and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a खेल in which players assume the भूमिकाएँ of characters in a fictional setting.
Players take responsibility for एक्टिंग out these roles within a narrative, either through literal acting or through a process of संरचित decision-making or अक्षर development.
Actions taken within अनेक games सफल or असफल according to a formal system of rules and guidelines.
There are several forms of RPG.
The असली रूप, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through discussion, whereas in live action role-playing games ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions.
In both of these forms, an arranger पुकारा a game निपुण ( GM ) प्रायः decides on the rules और setting to be used and acts as referee, while each of the other players plays the role of a single character.
Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media, such as multi-player text-based muds and their graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ).
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing video games in which players control a character or team who undertake quests, and may शामिल capabilities that अग्रिम using statistical mechanics.
These games often share जमावट and नियम साथ tabletop RPGs, but emphasize character उन्नति अधिक than collaborative storytelling.
despite this variety of forms, कुछ खेल फ़ॉर्म such as trading card games और wargames that हैं related to role-playing games may not be included.
Role-playing activity may sometimes be present in ऐसे खेल, but it is not the primary focus.
The term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and exercises used in शिक्षण, प्रशिक्षण, और academic research.
the American Civil War ( ACW ), भी known as the युद्ध between the States or बस the Civil War ( see नामकरण ), was a civil war fought इससे 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of गुलामी, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां did not intervene.
After four years of bloody कॉम्बैट that left over 600,000 soldiers dead और destroyed much of the दक्षिण 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but पहले his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave राज्य formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil युद्ध.
Eight remaining स्लेव states continued to reject काल्स लिये secession.
confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a Peace Conference failed to find a सुलह, and both sides prepared for युद्ध.
The Confederates assumed that European देशों were so dependent on `` किंग Cotton `` that वे होता intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of अमेरिका.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब Confederate forces fired upon Fort sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in दक्षिण Carolina.
Lincoln called लिये each राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their कुल to ग्यारह.
The Union जल्द controlled the border states and established a नवल blockade that अबोध the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with confederate retreat at the Battle of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which बना समाप्ति slavery a war लक्ष्य.
to the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their पश्चिमी armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in दो at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western थिएटर, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy इससे all directions, और could afford to fight लड़ाइयों of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
the defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox अदालत House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War थी one of the earliest true औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American इतिहास, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers और an undetermined number of civilian हताहत.
Historian जॉन Huddleston estimates the death टोल at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 प्रतिशत of सब Southern श्वेत males aged 18–40.
The definition of the world 's व्यस्ततम airport रै been specified by the एयरपोर्ट Council अंतरराष्ट्रीय in Geneva, Switzerland.
The ACI defines and measures the following three types of विमानक्षेत्र traffic:
Passenger traffic : total passengers emplaned and deplaned, passengers in पारगमन गिने once
Cargo traffic : loaded and unloaded freight और mail in metric tonnes
Traffic movements : landings और take-offs of aircraft
World War i ( WWI ) थी a वैश्विक war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from इसके occurrence जबतक the start of World युद्ध II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved सब the world 's ग्रेट powers, which were समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the सेंट्रल Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary था लिया the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and विस्तारित as more nations entered the war : Italy, जापानी and the संयुक्त States joined the Allies, and the उस्मानी Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
ultimately, अधिक than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons बगैर corresponding improvements in protection or गतिशीलता.
It थी the fifth- deadliest conflict in world इतिहास, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the war was the resurgence of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign policies of the ग्रेट powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic संकट when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at युद्ध and, via their colonies, the conflict जल्द spread around the संसार.
On 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
बाद the German march on Paris थी brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition साथ a trench line that changed little जबतक 1917.
On the पूर्वी सामने, the Russian फौज थी successful विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but थी stopped in its आक्रमण of East Prussia by the Germans.
in November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia और the sinai.
Italy और Bulgaria went to war in 1915 और Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's सरकारी collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the russians to terms with the सेंट्रल Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began प्रवेश the trenches.
Germany, which था its अपना trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the घर fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants आजमाया to mobilize their manpower और economic resources to fight a total युद्ध.
by the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, austro-hungarian and उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into अनेक smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
the European nationalism spawned by the war और the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems साथ the सन्धि of Versailles are सहमत to be factors contributing to World War II.
the deepwater Horizon आयल spill ( also referred to as the BP आयल spill, the BP oil disaster, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and the Macondo blowout ) was an oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico on the BP -operated Macondo prospect, considered the largest accidental marine oil spill in the इतिहास of the petroleum उद्योग, estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in आवाज़ than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill.
following the विस्फोट और डूब of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, जिससे claimed 11 lives, a sea-floor oil gusher flowed unabated for 87 days, until it was capped on 15 July 2010.
the total discharge is estimated at.
A massive response ensued to protect beaches, wetlands and estuaries from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships, floating booms, controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant.
After several failed efforts to contain the flow, the खूब was declared sealed on 19 सितंबर 2010.
कुछ reports indicate the well site continues to leak.
Due to the months-long spill, along with adverse प्रभाव from the response and cleanup activities, extensive क्षति to marine and wildlife habitats, fishing और tourism industries, and human health problems have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill, तारकोल balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast.
Numerous investigations explored the causes of the explosion और record-setting spill.
Notably, the u.S. government 's सितंबर 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the well, faulting mostly BP, but also well operator transocean and ठेकेदार Halliburton.
Earlier in 2011, a White House आयोग likewise blamed BP and its partners लिये a श्रेणी of cost-cutting निर्णय and an insufficient safety प्रणाली, but also concluded that the spill resulted from `` प्रणालीगत '' root causes and `` absent significant reform in both industry practices and government policies, might well recur ''.
In November 2012, BP and the United States Department of Justice settled federal criminal charges with BP pleading guilty to 11 counts of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to कॉंग्रेस.
BP also सहमत to चार सालो of government monitoring of its safety practices और ethics, and the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily बैन from नई contracts with the US government.
BP और the Department of Justice सहमत to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in जुर्माना और other भुगतान but further विधिक proceedings not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and fines under the Clean Water Act and the Natural संसाधन Damage Assessment.
As of February 2013, criminal and civil settlements and भुगतान to a trust fund had cost the company $ 42.2 billion.
`` Where the Streets have No Name '' is a सोंग by rock band U2.
It is the opening track from their 1987 एल्बम The Joshua Tree and was released as the album 's third single in अगस्त 1987.
The song 's hook is a repeating गिटार arpeggio using a विलंब effect, निभाई during the सोंग 's introduction and again at the end.
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is possible to identify a person 's religion and income based on the गली on which वे lived, particularly in Belfast.
During the band 's difficulties recording the सोंग, producer Brian Eno considered erasing the सोंग 's tapes to have them start इससे scratch.
`` Where the Streets Have no Name '' was praised by आलोचकों and became a commercial success, peaking at number thirteen in the US, number fourteen in Canada, number ten in the Netherlands, and number four in the United Kingdom.
The सोंग has become one of the band 's most लोकप्रिय songs and रै remained a स्टेपल of उनके live act since the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour.
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the filming of its music video, which won a Grammy Award for Best Performance Music Video.Recently the song has been used by the NFL 's Baltimore ravens as their प्रवेश song in Super Bowl xlvii
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born July 9, 1956 ) is an American actor, producer, writer, and निदेशक.
Hanks is known for उसके roles in Apollo 13, बिग, That Thing You Do !
, the Green Mile, You 've Got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, Charlie विल्सन 's युद्ध, Catch Me If You Can, Forrest Gump, Cast Away, A League of Their Own, The Da Vinci कोड, फ़रिश्ते & Demons, as well as एनिमेटेड films like the Toy Story film series, The Polar Express, and The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned and been nominated for numerous awards दौरान his career, including winning a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an Academy पुरस्कार लिये Best Actor for उसके role in Philadelphia and a सुनहरी Globe, an Academy पुरस्कार, a स्क्रीन Actors Guild पुरस्कार, and a People 's चुनाव पुरस्कार for Best Actor for his भूमिका in Forrest Gump, और earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004.
Hanks is also ज्ञात for his collaboration with film director Steven Spielberg on छायांकन निजी Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers, which launched Hanks also as a successful director, निर्माता and writer.
as of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 billion at the संयुक्त States बक्सा office alone, and over $ 8.5 billion worldwide making him the highest all-time box दफ्तर star.
The केप is an American सुपरहीरो drama series.
It premiered on NBC दौरान the 2010–2011 television ऋतु as a mid-season replacement beginning with a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on संडे, January 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific समय.
An encore played on Monday, January 10, with follow-up episodes continuing on सोमवार evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on जनवरी 17.
NBC subsequently cut the total number of episodes to be aired from 13 to 10 as a result of low दरजा.
On कूच 2, 2011, NBC announced that the series finale होता only be aired on the network 's website.
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from धरती every 75–76 years.
हैली is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth, और यूँ the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
अन्य naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be brighter और more spectacular, but will appear only एकबार in thousands of years.
Halley 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी Solar प्रणाली have been observed और recorded by खगोलशास्त्रियों since at least 240 BCE.
साफ records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese, babylonian, and medieval European chroniclers, but यहूद not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the समय.
the comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley, after जिसको it is now named.
Halley 's Comet पिछला appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 और will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and टेल formation.
These observations supported a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, particularly Fred whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model, which correctly predicted कि Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, कार्बन dioxide and ammonia – और dust.
The missions also provided आंकड़ा which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, और कि only a छोटी portion of it is icy.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated places of the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका.
As defined by the संयुक्त States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations, including city, कस्बा, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated स्थान ( CDPs ) are also included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक type of सरकारी that includes the संपूर्ण population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some संचित city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated places.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a भाग of another incorporated प्लेस.
Note that this सूची refers तभी to the population of व्यक्तिगत municipalities within उनके defined limits, which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S. metropolitan area populations.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims, including a core समूह of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is एक of travail and survival in a हर्ष New World environment.
A New Zealand forward ( in श्वेत ) takes a shot on goal against Cameroon in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup.
Forwards, also known as strikers, are the players on a team in association फ़ुटबॉल who play nearest to the opposing team 's goal, और are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals.
This very advanced position और इसके सीमित रक्षात्मक responsibilities औसत forwards normally score more लक्ष्य than अन्य players.
This स्थिति requires intelligence, speed, and power, both of execution and of thought, to perform the भूमिका खूब.
Modern team formations प्रायः include one to three forwards ; two is the most common.
Coaches typically field एक striker who plays in an advanced position ( the centre forward ), and another attacking forward who plays somewhat deeper and assists in making goals as well as scoring ( the second स्ट्राइकर ).
It should be noted that inside forwards develop from attacking midfield positions और hence are naturally midfielders.
Barcelona fc star Lionel Messi is a typical Attacking Midfielder देखी as a forward due to उसके shot accuracy.
A California घरेलू partnership is a legal relationship available to same-sex couples, and to certain opposite-sex युगल in जिससे at least one party is at least 18 years of age.
It affords the couple `` the same rights, protections, and benefits, and... the same responsibilities, obligations, and कर्तव्य under law... '' as married spouses.
Enacted in 1999, the domestic partnership registry थी the first of its kind in the United राज्य created by a विधानमंडल without court intervention.
Initially, domestic partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally just hospital-visitation rights and the right to be claimed as a अगला of kin of the estate of a deceased संगी.
The legislature has since expanded the scope of California घरेलू partnerships to include सब of the rights and responsibilities common to marriage.
As such, California domestic partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil unions offered in several other states.
Although the program enjoys व्यापक support in California, it रै been the सोर्स of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the विस्तार of domestic partnerships in अदालत.
conversely, advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything कम than full marriage rights विस्तारित to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era.
Mark A. Jackson ( born April 1, 1965 ) is an American basketball कोच, and पूर्व player जो is the current सिर coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA.
A पाइंट गार्ड from St. जॉन 's University, he played for the New York Knicks, Indiana Pacers, Los Angeles Clippers, Denver Nuggets, Toronto Raptors, Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning इससे 1987 to 2004.
Jackson रै also worked as a commentator for ESPN and ABC alongside his former coach Jeff वैन Gundy and play-by-play man माइक Breen.
He was previously an NBA विश्लेषक लिये The YES Network 's New Jersey Nets games.
South अफ़्रीकी रै eleven आधिकारिक languages : अफ्रीकी, अंग्रेज़ी, Ndebele, Northern Sotho, sotho, swazi, Tswana, Tsonga, Venda, Xhosa और Zulu.
Fewer than दो percent of South africans speak a पहला language other than an official एक.
Most South Africans can speak more than one language.
Dutch and English were the first official languages of दक्षिण Africa from 1910 to 1925.
Afrikaans थी added as a part of Dutch in 1925.
डच थी replaced by अफ्रीकी when South अफ़्रीकी became a republic in 1961, and Dutch was dropped in 1983, so between 1983 और 1994, South अफ़्रीकी had दो आधिकारिक languages : अंग्रेज़ी and Afrikaans.
The English संस्करण of the दक्षिण African संविधान refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu, isiXhosa, Afrikaans, Sepedi ( referring to Northern Sotho ), Setswana, English, Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ), Xitsonga, Siswati, Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ).
In दक्षिण Africa, दक्षिणी ndebele is known simply as Ndebele, as most speakers of उत्तरी Ndebele live in Zimbabwe.
the 1993 version of the Constitution referred to Northern Sotho as Sesotho sa leboa, लकिन the 1996 version referred to the language as Sepedi.
Different government departments और official bodies use different terms to denote Northern Sotho.
The main language of government is अंग्रेज़ी even if South Africans often take अभिमान in using indigenous languages लिये any purpose.
अफ्रीकी also features prominently in कॉमर्स साथ साथ English as the भाषाएं with the उच्चतम number of fluent अध्यक्षों हैं Afrikaans and अंग्रेज़ी.
In terms of भाषाई वर्गीकरण, the आधिकारिक languages include दो West-Germanic languages ( English and अफ्रीकी ) and nine Bantu languages.
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu, Xhosa, Swati and Ndebele ) और three are sotho–tswana languages ( Northern Sotho, Southern sotho and Tswana ).
Tsonga is a Tswa–Ronga language.
South African Sign Language is a पृथक though incompletely emerged national standard language which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric acid, existing normally as a crystalline hydrate, most commonly as एल्युमिनियम नाइट्रेट nonahydrate, Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
the New York Jets are a पेशेवर football team headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, representing the New York महानगर area.
the टोली is a member of the Eastern Division of the American Football Conference ( afc ) in the National Football लीग ( NFL ).
In a unique व्यवस्था for the league, the Jets share MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey with the New यॉर्क Giants.
the franchise is legally and corporately registered as New York Jets, LLC.
The team थी संस्थापित in 1959 as the Titans of New York, an original member of the American Football लीग ; बाद, the मताधिकार joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger.
The team began to play in 1960 at the Polo Grounds.
अंतर्गत new ownership, the current नाम was adopted in 1963 and the franchise was relocated to shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984.
the Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in सुपर Bowl III where वे पराजित the Baltimore Colts, becoming the first afl टोली to defeat an एनएफएल club in an afl-nfl World Championship Game.
Since 1968, the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen टाइम्स, और in the AFC Championship Game four times, most recently losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010.
however, the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl, बनाना them one of three एनएफएल टीमों to win their lone सुपर कटोरी appearance, along with the New Orleans Saints and Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
The team 's training facility, Atlantic Health Jets Training Center, which खोली in 2008, is located in Florham Park.
The team currently holds उनके annual training शिविर सत्र on the campus of the State University of New York at cortland in Cortland, New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park जटिल.
Psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms, also known as psychedelic mushrooms, are fungi that contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin mushrooms, the most common being shrooms और magic mushrooms.
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe, Conocybe, Copelandia, Galerina, Gerronema, gymnopilus, Hypholoma, Inocybe, Mycena, panaeolus, Pluteus, और Psilocybe.
There are लगभग 190 species of psilocybin mushrooms और most of them fall in the genus psilocybe.
psilocybin mushrooms have likely महरूम used since prehistoric times and may have been depicted in rock art.
Many cultures have used these mushrooms in religious rites.
In modern Western समाज they हैं प्रयुक्त recreationally for their psychedelic effects.
हाल studies done at इम्पीरियल College London और जॉन्स Hopkins School of Medicine conclude that when प्रयुक्त properly, psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans.
अलास्का ( ) is a राज्य in the संयुक्त States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent, with the international boundary with Canada to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and दक्षिण, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area, the 4th least populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's अर्थव्यवस्था is dominated by the oil, natural gas, and fishing industries ; it has these संसाधन in abundance.
Alaska was खरीदा from Russia on March 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The जमीन went through several administrative परिवर्तन before बनने an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the u.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( аляска ) was already introduced in the रूसी colonial period, जब it थी used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, more वस्तुतः, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is भी ज्ञात as Alyeska, the `` great land '', an Aleut word निकला इससे the same root.
The 101 French departments are विभाजित into 342 arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts.
The capital of an arrondissement/district is called a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the विभाग, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting दोनो as a प्रीफ़ेक्चर and as a subprefecture.
Arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes.
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna, literally `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract which is a sex organ and रै two main functions ; sexual intercourse और प्रसव.
in इंसानो, this passage leads from the opening of the vulva to the uterus ( womb ), but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix.
Unlike men, who have तभी one genital orifice, women have two, the urethra और the vagina.
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral opening, and both openings are protected by the labia.
the inner mould of the vagina रै a foldy texture which can create friction for the शिश्न during intercourse.
During arousal, the vagina gets नम to facilitate the entrance of the penis.
The latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely used in English.
Colloquially, the word योनि is प्रायः used to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in general.
however, by its dictionary and anatomical definitions, vagina refers exclusively to the specific internal structure.
The Cincinnati Reds हैं a Major League Baseball team based in Cincinnati, ओहियो.
They हैं members of the National लीग सेंट्रल Division.
Established in 1881 as an independent club, the team became a चार्टर सदस्य of the अमरीकी Association in 1882, और joined the नेशनल लीग in 1890.
the क्लबों traditionally traces its origin to baseball 's first openly professional टोली in 1869.
The Reds have won five World Series titles, एक अमरीकी Association pennant, nine National लीग pennants and ten division titles.
The Reds निभाई in the National League वेस्ट between 1969 और 1993 and have been in the National League Central since 1994.
Since 2003, the Reds have played at ग्रेट American बॉल Park, built next to their home from 1970 to 2002, Riverfront Stadium.
bob Castellini has owned the Cincinnati लाल since 2006.
A prank stink bomb.
A बदबू bomb is a यंत्र designed to create an unpleasant smell.
They range in प्रभावकारिता from simple pranks to military grade malodorants or riot control chemical agents.
The Guinness Book of Records lists दो smelliest substances.
One is `` US Government Standard Bathroom Malodor '' ; a mixture of eight रसायन with a stench resembling human मल, only much stronger, designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners.
Another एक, `` Who me ? ``, is a mixture of पाँच sulfur-containing chemicals and smells like rotting food and carcasses.
The adage `` A picture is लायक a thousand शब्द '' refers to the notion that a complex idea can be conveyed साथ बस a single still चित्र.
It also aptly characterizes एक of the main goals of visualization, namely making it possible to absorb विशाल amounts of data quickly.
The expression `` उपयोग a picture.
It 's worth a thousand words. '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper एडिटर Arthur Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity.
1913 newspaper advertisement
A similar phrase, `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 newspaper advertisement लिये the Piqua Auto सप्लाई House of Piqua, Ohio.
An जल्दी use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 समाचारपत्र advertisement for the सैन Antonio Light which says : One of the Nation 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is लायक a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the युद्ध exemplifies the truth of the above बयान -- judging from the warm reception it has प्राप्त at the hands of the संडे Light पाठक.
It is believed by some that the आधुनिक use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the विज्ञापन व्यापार journal Printers ' स्याही, promoting the use of images in advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars.
the दिसम्बर 8, 1921 issue carries an ad entitled, `` One Look is Worth A Thousand Words. ''
Another ad by बर्नार्ड appears in the March 10, 1927 issue साथ the phrase `` One Picture Worth टेन Thousand Words, '' where it is labeled a चाइनीज कहावत ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The घर Book of proverbs, Maxims, and Familiar Phrases quotes Barnard as saying he पुकारा it `` a Chinese proverb, so that people would take it seriously. ''
Soon बाद, the proverb would become popularly attributed to Confucius.
the discussion of `` One Picture लायक Thousand शब्द '' versus `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words '' Wan yen I hua and 10.000 miles लायक 10.000 books is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures.
A picture is worth a thousand words
Despite इस आधुनिक origin of the popular phrase, the sentiment has been expressed by earlier writers.
For example the Russian लेखक इवान Turgenev wrote ( in fathers and Sons in 1862 ), `` a picture shows me at a glance what it takes दर्जनों of pages of a book to expound. ''
Computer प्रोग्रामर और author Fred Brooks makes an opposite बयान regarding programming in the Mythical Man-Month : `` Show me your flowcharts and छिपाते your tables, और I shall continue to be mystified.
Show me अपना tables, and I won’t usually need your flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John McCarthy, the प्रसिद्ध कंप्यूटर scientist, to मेक the opposite point : `` As the Chinese say, 1001 words is worth more than a picture. ''
A ऋतु is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by changes in weather, ecology, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the वार्षिक revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the झुकाव of the धरती 's axis सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of revolution.
in शीतोष्ण and polar regions, the seasons हैं marked by changes in the intensity of धूप that reaches the Earth 's सतह, variations of which may कारण animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern hemisphere is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun.
The same is true of the southern hemisphere in November, December and जनवरी.
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during the summer months जिससे increases the सौर फ्लक्स.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December, जनवरी and February हैं the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -आधारd seasons ( with their adjectives ) हैं recognized : वसन्त ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and शीत ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a छह season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late गर्मियाँ ( serotinal ) as distinct सीज़न along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season and the dry ऋतु, और in some तीव्र areas, a cool or mild season.
In कुछ parts of the world, special `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on important events ऐसे as a hurricane season, tornado ऋतु or a wildfire season.
The six ecological seasons
the four calendar सीज़न, depicted in an प्राचीन Roman mosaic from Tunisia
Dutch exports in 2006
At the time of writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the world.
( see : List of countries by GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP प्रति capita is roughly $ 42,000 जिससे puts it in the top 10 of richest nations in the संसार ( see : List of countries by जीडीपी ( PPP ) per capita ).
Between 1996 and 2000 annual economic growth ( जीडीपी ) averaged over 4 %, well ऊपर the यूरोपीय average.
विकास slowed considerably in 2001-05 as part of the global economic slowdown.
2006 और 2007 however दिखाया economic growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The डच economy was hit considerably by the ongoing global वित्तीय संकट and the ensuing European कर्ज़ crisis.
Several बैंको went bankrupt, and a number of others had to receive governmental सहायता.
In 2009 the economy declined with 3.5 %, followed by two years of mild growth.
the Dutch economy is फिलहाल in a recession again, with an economic मनाही of 0.5 % in 2012.
Inflation is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013.
Unemployment has been अपेक्षाकृत low compared to other EU nations for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it रै hit 7.7 %.
The नीदरलैंड्स managed to maintain its AAA rating at तनिक जबतक कूच 2013 according to the three प्रमुख credit rating agencies.
Historically, the डच introduced and invented the stock मार्केट by the merchandise व्यापार through Dutch West India Company.
The Netherlands is a founding सदस्य of the European Union, the OECD और the World Trade Organization.
वफ़ादार to the Game is the tenth studio album and sixth स्टुडियो album by Tupac shakur.
it contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by Shakur before his death in 1996.
released in the संयुक्त States on December 14, 2004 ( December 12 in the United Kingdom ), Loyal to the Game थी produced by एमिनेम.
The original फलक of The दृश्य ; मेरेडिथ vieira, Star जोन्स, Debbie Matenopoulos and बारबरा Walters in 1997.
The View is an American talk show ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी that debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime प्रोग्रामिंग block.
Created by बारबरा walters and Bill geddie, जो both also serve as the show 's executive producers, the program features a फलक of महिलाओं as co-hosts.
Along साथ walters, the current panel includes Whoopi Goldberg, who serves as the moderator, Joy behar, Elisabeth Hasselbeck, and Sherri गड़रिये.
International संस्करण of the program are aired in several countries.
As of the 2012–13 season, its 16th, the View is the fourth-longest running national daytime बात दिखाएँ in history, behind The Phil Donahue Show ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ), and The Oprah Winfrey Show ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly called bitter-berry, chokecherry, वर्जिनिया बर्ड cherry and western chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a प्रजाति of bird चेरी ( Prunus subgenus Padus ) native to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent, except for the far north और far south.
लॉस Angeles अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport is the primary airport सेवारत the Greater Los एंजिल्स Area, the second-most populated metropolitan area in the संयुक्त States.
It is सबसे often referred to by its IATA airport code lax, with the letters pronounced individually.
lax is located in southwestern लॉस Angeles along the Pacific coast in the neighborhood of Westchester, from the downtown core और is the primary airport of Los Angeles World Airports ( LAWA ), an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, LAX थी the sixth busiest airport in the world after hartsfield-jackson Atlanta International Airport, Beijing Capital International विमानक्षेत्र, London हीथ्रो विमानक्षेत्र, Chicago o'hare International Airport, और Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers.
the airport holds the claim लिये `` the world 's busiest origin और destination ( O & d ) airport '' in 2011 कि involves non-connecting passenger traffic.
It is also the only airport to rank among the top five U.S. airports for both passenger and cargo ट्रैफ़िक.
lax is the व्यस्ततम airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area, but other airports including bob Hope विमानक्षेत्र, John Wayne Airport, Long बीच Airport, LA/Ontario International Airport, और ताड़ Springs International Airport also serve the प्रदेश.
LAX is भी the busiest विमानक्षेत्र in California and the वेस्ट Coast of the United States in terms of flight operations, passenger ट्रैफ़िक and air कार्गो कार्यकलाप, leading it to be referred to as the `` गेटवे to the Pacific Rim ``.
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24, 1976 ) is an अमरीकी football quarterback for the Denver broncos of the नेशनल Football लीग ( एनएफएल ).
he played for the इंडियानापोलिस Colts लिये 14 seasons from 1998 to 2011.
he is the son of former एनएफएल quarterback Archie Manning and an elder brother of New York दिग्गज quarterback Eli Manning.
Manning played college football for the विश्वविद्यालयों of Tennessee, अग्रणी the स्वयंसेवक to the 1997 SEC Championship in his वरिष्ठ season.
However, No. 3 Tennessee खोया to the no. 2 Nebraska cornhuskers 42-17 in the नारंगी Bowl giving Nebraska और Tom Osborne उनके 3rd नेशनल championship in 4 years.
He was chosen by the Indianapolis Colts with the first overall चुनें in the 1998 NFL Draft.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the Colts to आठ ( seven AFC South and one AFC East ) division championships, two AFC championships, and to a Super Bowl चैंपियनशिप ( Super कटोरी XLI ).
he has won a record four लीग सबसे valuable player awards, थी the most valuable player of Super Bowl XLI, रै been named to बारह Pro प्याले, has twelve 4,000-yard passing सीज़न, and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in गुजर गज ( 54,828 ) and touchdown गुजरता ( 399 ).
In 2009, he was नामित the बेहतरीन player in the NFL and Fox Sports along with Sports Illustrated named him the NFL player of the decade of the 2000s.
In may 2011, he underwent neck सर्जरी to alleviate neck pain and arm weakness he dealt with during the पिछला few seasons before signing a five-year, $ 90 million contract एक्सटेंशन with the Colts in July 2011.
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 season, but in September 2011, he underwent a much more गंभीर second surgery : a स्तर one cervical fusion procedure.
मैनिंग had never missed an NFL खेल in his करियर, but was forced to miss the entire 2011 season.
He was released by the Colts on March 7, 2012, and बाद an almost two-week काल where he visited with and worked out for अनेक NFL टीमों, he signed with the Denver Broncos on March 20, 2012.
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the उपनाम, `` The Sheriff '' और is one of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL.
the Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led to मैनिंग using an array of gestures and verbal commands to call the play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
The America Tower of the American General Center, the headquarters of Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes is one of the world 's largest oilfield services companies.
It operates in over 90 देशों, providing the आयल और gas उद्योग with उत्पाद and services लिये खुदाई, formation मूल्यांकन, पूर्णता, उत्पादन and reservoir consulting.
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower in the अमरीकी General Center in neartown, Houston.
Baker ह्यूजेस incorporated was formed when Baker International and ह्यूजेस Tool Company merged in 1987.
बेकर ह्यूजेस operates worldwide with major कार्यालयों in Liverpool, United Kingdom ; Singapore ; Dubai ; a research and maintenance facility in celle, Germany ; Lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, Texas ; Pescara, इटली ; and Kuala Lumpur, मलेशिया.
The company is administered broadly in two hemispheres : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( Europe, अफ़्रीकी, the Middle East, एशिया प्रशांत and Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada, US जमीन, US गल्फ, and Latin America ).
Each of these regions is subdivided into markets.
the United States one- cent coin, commonly known as a penny, is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a United States dollar.
the cent 's symbol is ¢.
Its obverse has featured the profile of President Abraham lincoln since 1909, the centennial of his birth.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008, the reverse featured the Lincoln Memorial.
Four different reverse designs in 2009 honored Lincoln 's 200th birthday and a new, permanent reverse – the Union Shield – was introduced in 2010.
The coin is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm ) in व्यास and 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The u.S. Mint 's आधिकारिक name for a penny is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's official नाम is `` एक cent piece ''.
The colloquial term penny derives from the British सिक्का of the वही नाम, the pre-decimal version of which had a similar value.
In अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी, pennies is the plural form, other plural forms pence and pee ( standard use in British अंग्रेज़ी ) हैं not used.
as of 2012, it costs the U.S. Mint 2.00 cents to make a cent because of the cost of materials and production.
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components for distribution and fabrication, estimated at $ 13 million in FY 2011.
it भी includes Mint ओवरहेड allocated to the पैनी, जिससे थी $ 17.7 लाख for 2011.
Fixed costs और overhead would have to be absorbed by other circulating सिक्के without the penny.
The घाटा in profitability due to producing the one cent coin in the United राज्य for the year of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
इस was a पतला decrease from 2011, the year before, which had a production loss of $ 60,200,000.
or more specifically, are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept for decorative purposes in बाहरी koi तालाबों or water gardens.
कोई किस्में are distinguished by coloration, patterning, and scalation.
कुछ of the प्रमुख colors are white, black, red, yellow, blue, and मलाई.
The सबसे popular category of koi is the Gosanke, जिससे is made up of the Kohaku, Taisho sanshoku, और Showa Sanshoku varieties.
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government, परिचय 5,000 employees of the District of कोलंबिया, and a few hundred private sector employees, mostly in और around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union for civilian, non- postal federal कर्मचारी और the largest संघ for District of Columbia employees who report directly to the mayor ( i.e., बाहर of D.C. public schools ).
It is affiliated with the AFL-CIO.
A late सिल्यूरियन sporangium.
Green : A spore tetrad.
Blue : A spore bearing a trilete mark – the -shaped scar.
The spores are about 30-35 μm across
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing levels of complexity, from the earliest algal मैट्स, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
While अनेक of the groups जिससे appeared earlier continue to thrive, विशेषकर in the environments in which they evolved, for a time each नई grade of संगठन became more `` successful '' than its पूर्ववर्तियों.
In the ordovician period, around, the first land plants appeared.
These began to diversify in the late Silurian काल, around, and the results of their diversification हैं displayed in remarkable detail in an early Devonian चट्टान assemblage from the Rhynie chert.
This chert preserved early पौधे in सेल्यूलर detail, petrified in volcanic springs.
By the middle of the devonian Period, most of the सुविधाएँ recognised in plants आज are present, including roots, leaves and secondary wood ; और, by late Devonian times, seeds had विकसित.
Late Devonian plants had thereby पहुँचे a degree of sophistication that अनुमत them to रूप forests of tall trees.
Evolutionary नवीनता जारी into the Carboniferous period and is still ongoing today.
Most plant groups were relatively unscathed by the permo-triassic extinction event, although the structures of communities changed.
This may have set the scene for the रूप of the flowering plants in the triassic ( ~ ), और their बाद diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene.
the latest major group of plants to evolve were the grasses, which became important in the mid-Paleogene, from around.
the grasses, as well as many other groups, evolved new mechanisms of metabolism to जीवित the low और warm, dry conditions of the tropics over the last.
The winning Super Bowl team receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
The Super Bowl is an annual American football game that determines the चैंपियन of the National Football League ( NFL ).
the contest is held in an American नगर that is chosen तीन to four सालो beforehand, usually in warm-weather or domed sites.
चूंकि 1971, the विजेता of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) Championship Game has faced the winner of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) Championship खेल in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
Before the 1970 merger between the अमरीकी Football लीग ( AFL ) और the National Football League ( NFL ), the two leagues met in चार such contests.
the पहला two were known as the `` AFL-NFL World Championship Game. ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game कि carried the `` सुपर Bowl '' moniker, the names `` Super Bowl I `` and `` सुपर Bowl II `` were retroactively लागू to the पहला two games.
The NFC /NFL leads in Super कटोरी wins with 25, while the AFC /AFL has won 22.
Eighteen different franchises, including teams that relocated to another city, have won the सुपर Bowl.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have जीती the most Super Bowls with six championships ( record 6–2 ), while both the Dallas Cowboys and San Francisco 49ers have five wins प्रत्येक ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most सुपर कटोरी appearances with आठ, जबकि the भैंस Bills have the most consecutive appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993.
The New England देशप्रेमी, Denver broncos and Minnesota Vikings have भी खोया a record चार सुपर Bowls.
भैंस और Minnesota are both 0–4, डेनवर is 2–4 and New England is 3–4.
The record for consecutive विन्स is two and is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 ग्रीन खाड़ी Packers, the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins, the 1974-75 and 1978-79 पिट्सबर्ग Steelers ( the only टोली to accomplish this feat twice ), the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 Denver Broncos, and the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The तभी team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the Baltimore ravens, who in winning Super Bowl XLVII unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position.
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a Super Bowl, including franchise relocations and renaming : the क्लीवलैंड Browns, Detroit Lions, Jacksonville Jaguars, and Houston Texans, हालांकि both the Browns और Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl.
Martin काउंटी is a काउंटी located in the U.S. state of Texas.
As of the 2010 census, इसके population was 4,799.
Its seat is Stanton.
The काउंटी is named for wylie Martin, an early settler.
Martin County is one of 30 prohibition, or entirely dry, counties in the state of Texas.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, alkp ) ( ) is a hydrolase एंजाइम responsible for removing phosphate समूह इससे many types of molecules, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
The process of removing the phosphate group is called dephosphorylation.
As the name suggests, alkaline phosphatases are most प्रभावी in an क्षारीय environment.
It is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously as basic phosphatase.
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ), ( ) is a hybrid of wheat ( Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first bred in laboratories दौरान the late 19th century.
The grain was originally bred in Scotland and स्वीडन.
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second पीढी hybrid, i.e., a cross between two kinds of primary ( पहला क्रॉस ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the yield potential और grain quality of wheat with the बीमारी and environmental tolerance ( सहित soil conditions ) of rye.
तभी recently has it been developed into a commercially viable crop.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can more or less resemble either of its parents.
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder, although some triticale-based भोजन can be purchased at health food stores or are to be found in some breakfast cereals.
When क्रासिंग गेहूं and rye, wheat is प्रयुक्त as the female parent and rye as the male parent ( पराग donor ).
The resulting hybrid is sterile, and जरूर be treated with colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus the ability to reproduce itself.
The प्राथमिक producers of triticale are Poland, Germany, France, बेलारूस and Australia.
In 2009, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ), 15.0 million tons were harvested in 29 countries across the संसार.
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid, जिससे means the plant is diploid for two genomes derived from अलग species.
In अन्य words, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In earlier years, most work was done on octoploid triticale.
अलग ploidy levels have been created और evaluated over time.
The tetraploids showed little promise, but hexaploid triticale was कामयाब enough to find वाणिज्यिक application.
The CIMMYT triticale improvement program wanted to improve food production and nutrition in developing countries.
triticale has potential in the production of ब्रैड and अन्य food products, such as cookies, pasta, pizza dough and नाश्ता cereals.
The protein content is higher than that of wheat, हालांकि the glutenin भिन्न is less.
The grain has also महरूम stated to have उच्चतर levels of lysine than wheat.
Assuming increased स्वीकृति, the milling industry होगा have to adapt to triticale, as the milling techniques employed for wheat are unsuited to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be used as a feed अनाज, and later शोध found its starch was विशेषकर readily digested.
As a feed अनाज, triticale is already well established and of ऊँची आर्थिक importance.
It has received attention as a potential उर्जा crop, and research is currently होने conducted on the use of the क्रॉप 's biomass in bioethanol उत्पादन.
`` Puff, the Magic Dragon '' is a सोंग written by Leonard Lipton and Peter Yarrow, और बना लोकप्रिय by Yarrow 's समूह Peter, पॉल और Mary in a 1963 रिकॉर्डिंग.
the song achieved great popularity.
a college football national championship in the highest level of collegiate play in the संयुक्त States, currently the National कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक Association ( NCAA ) Division i Football Bowl Subdivision ( fbs ), is a designation awarded annually by विभिन्न third-party organizations to उनके चयन ( s ) of the बेहतरीन college football team ( s ).
प्रभाग I fbs ( formerly प्रभाग I-A ) football is the only NCAA खेल in which a yearly champion is नहीं determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event.
Because the championship टोली is not determined by a NCAA championship or टूर्नामेंट event, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical national championship ``.
Since the NCAA, the खेल 's governing body, does not determine or declare a नेशनल champion in this field, determination of such रै often engendered विवाद.
A championship team is independently declared by विभिन्न individuals and organizations, often referred to as `` selectors ''.
These choices are sometimes at हालात with each other.
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual चैंपियनशिप team, it has documented the choices of अनेक selectors in the official NCAA Football कटोरी Subdivision Records.
in addition, various third party विश्लेषकों have independently published their own lists of what वे have determined to be the सबसे legitimate selections for each season.
These हैं also often at हालात with प्रत्येक other as well as individual school 's claims on national championships, which, for any particular season, may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere.
Currently, two widely पहचाना नेशनल champions selectors हैं the Associated दबायें, which conducts a poll of फ़ुटबॉल sportswriters, और the USA Today Coaches ' Poll, a poll of American Football Coaches Association active coaches कि is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion.
The मिल्वौकी Brewers are a पेशेवर baseball team based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The टोली is a member of the Central Division of Major League बेसबॉल 's National League and plays its home games at मिलर पार्क.
The team is so नामित because of the city 's association with the brewing industry.
The Washington Nationals are a professional baseball टोली based in Washington, d.c.
The नागरिकों हैं a member of the East प्रभाग of the National League of Major League बेसबॉल ( MLB ).
The team 's home ballpark is Nationals Park, located on दक्षिण Capitol Street in Southeast D.C., near the Anacostia नदी.
The park खोली in 2008, replacing RFK Stadium, the team 's home from 2005 to 2007.
The Nationals ' name derives from the पूर्व Washington बेसबॉल team that had the same name ( used interchangeably with सीनेटरों ).
Their nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened संस्करण कि was also used by the old d.C. teams.
An expansion मताधिकार, the क्लबों was founded in as the मॉन्ट्रियल Expos, the first प्रमुख लीग team in कनाडा.
They were based in Montreal, Quebec, and played their home खेल at jarry Park Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium.
In, the expos जीती a division चैंपियनशिप, won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the Philadelphia Phillies, 3–2, and advanced to the National League चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी, where they होता go on to lose to the Los एंजिल्स Dodgers, 3–2, in their only postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season.
The expos had their उच्चतम winning percentage in the strike-shortened ऋतु of, when the टोली had the बेहतरीन record in baseball.
The team 's subsequent shedding of players caused fan ब्याज to drop off.
After the 2001 season, एमएलबी considered revoking the team 's franchise, along with either the Minnesota जुड़वा or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
After होने खरीदा by एमएलबी in 2002, the टोली was moved before the ऋतु to Washington and renamed the नागरिकों, the first relocation since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington, Texas, and became the Texas रेंजरों in.
The Nationals are one of दो MLB franchises, and the only एक in the National League, that has never played in a World Series ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ).
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or सशर्त शुल्क ( in England and Wales ) is any fee for services provided where the fee is देय only if there is a favourable result.
In the विधि, it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's सेवाएं only if the lawsuit is successful or is favorably settled out of अदालत....
Contingent शुल्क are usually calculated as a percentage of the client 's net recovery. ''
In the English legal system, it is generally referred to as no win no fee.
A conditional fee agreement between a law firm and a क्लाएंट.
The usual form of this अनुबंध is that the solicitor होगा take a law case on the समझना that if lost, no payment is made.
However, if the case is won, the lawyer होगा be entitled to the normal fee based on hourly बिलिंग, plus a success शुल्क.
The कामयाबी fee in England must be as a percentage no greater than 100 % of the normal fee.
This contrasts साथ the contingency शुल्क in the US, which gives the successful attorney a percentage of the damages awarded in एहसान of his client.
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their सिविल rights since वरना, to sue someone for a tort, one must first be wealthy enough to pursue such वाद in the first place.
however, because of the high रिस्क, few attorneys will take cases on a contingency basis unless they feel the case has good मेरिट.
According to a 2004 book by विधि professor Herbert Kritzer, contingent fees यहूद allowed as of that year in the following countries : ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Brazil, Canada, the डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र, France, Greece, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, the United Kingdom और the United States.
वे are also अनुमत in personal injury क्रियाएँ in Lithuania.
recently, they have महरूम allowed in Belgium as well.
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ', translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of people formally समवेत for a special purpose.
Sons of Anarchy is a टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी created by Kurt Sutter about the जीवनदान of a close-knit outlaw motorcycle club operating in आकर्षक, a fictional कस्बा in California 's Central Valley.
the show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' teller ( Charlie hunnam ), the then-vice president of the club, who begins questioning the club और himself.
Sons of Anarchy premiered on September 3, 2008, on cable संजाल FX.
The third season of the series attracted an average of 4.9 लाख viewers per week, making it FX 's highest rated series ever, surpassing fx 's अन्य hits The Shield, nip/tuck, and Rescue Me.
On February 3, 2012, बेटे of Anarchy was renewed for two additional seasons, a fifth and a छठे.
Those involved in the उत्पादन of the series imply that a सातवाँ and final ऋतु is creator Kurt Sutter 's योजना.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '', singular : ) और the volcano of the same नाम are in South-East Iceland.
They हैं in the highlands of Iceland at the northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
The lakes are at, at an elevation of.
Beneath the lakes is the magma chamber of the Grímsvötn volcano.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano जिससे रै the highest eruption frequency of all the volcanoes in आइसलैंड and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system.
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 was a part of the वही फिशर system.
grímsvötn was erupting at the वही time as Laki during 1783, but continued to erupt until 1785.
क्युकी most of the volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull, most of इसके eruptions have been subglacial and the interaction of magma and meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 utc, an eruption began, with ऊँची plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes, resulting in cancellation of 900 flights in Iceland, और in the United Kingdom, Greenland, Germany, Ireland and Norway on 22–25 may.
Until 25 may the eruption स्केल had महरूम larger than that of the 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallajökull.
the eruption stopped at 02:40 UTC on 25 May 2011, although there was some explosive activity इससे the tephra vents affecting तभी the area around the crater.
Vetting is the process of performing a background check on someone पहले offering उन्हें employment, conferring an award, etc.
A prospective person or project may be vetted before making a hiring decision.
In addition, in प्रज्ञा gathering, assets are vetted to determine their usefulness.
Former मुख्यालय and current corporate कार्यालयों
Caesars entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment इससे 1995 to 2010 ) is an अमरीकी public gaming निगम that owns and operates over 50 casinos, hotels, and seven गोल्फ़ courses under several brands.
The company, based in Paradise, Nevada, is the largest gaming company in the world, with annual revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
Caesars is a public company, with a joint venture of Apollo Global प्रबन्धन and Texas Pacific Group ownig a विशाल portion of the stack and Blackstone Group भी holding a significant stake.
The नाम change इससे `` Harrah 's Entertainment Inc. '' to `` Caesars Entertainment Corporation '' थी बना official on November 23, 2010.
harrah 's remains a key brand in the company.
On नवम्बर 5, 2010, Harrah 's announced an initial पब्लिक offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering on November 19.
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a व्यक्ति who is not a Canadian citizen लकिन who has been granted permission to live and work in Canada without कोई time limit on उसके or उसके stay.
A permanent resident must live in Canada for two years out of every five or risk losing that status.
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen, among others the right to work for any एंटरप्राइज़ as well as for the federal or provincial government ( under प्रतिबंध of access rights to certain regulated व्यवसायों ).
The main differences are that निवासियों can not :
vote in elections in Canada ;
चलाएं for निर्वाचित office ;
थाम Canadian passports ;
In addition, they may be allowed to join Canada 's armed शक्तियां if the national interest would not be prejudiced.
स्थाई residents also risk deportation for गंभीर crimes committed जबकि resident in कनाडा.
स्थाई residents may apply for Canadian citizenship बाद three years in Canada ; however this is not mandatory.
Erica Kane is a fictional character from the अमरीकी ABC Daytime soap opera All My Children.
The character was portrayed by अभिनेत्री Susan lucci from her debut on January 16, 1970 until the पिछला broadcast television episode aired on September 23, 2011.
On फ़रवरी 11, 2013, it was घोषित that Lucci होगा guest-star on the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children.
In the U.S., Erica is considered to be the most popular character in soap opera history.
Regarding the North-American market, tv Guide calls her `` unequivocally the most famous soap opera अक्षर in the history of daytime TV '', and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 nastiest Villains of All Time.
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ), and its प्रतिशत annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) उपायों changes in the price स्तर of a market basket of consumer goods and services purchased by households.
The CPI in the United States is पारिभाषित by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the औसत change over समय in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket of consumer goods and services. ''
The CPI is a statistical अनुमान constructed using the कीमतें of a sample of representative items whose कीमतें are collected periodically.
sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods and services, being combined to produce the overall अनुक्रमणिका साथ weights reflecting their shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered by the index.
It is एक of several price indices calculated by most national सांख्यिकीय agencies.
The annual percentage change in a cpi is used as a measure of inflation.
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e., adjust लिये the प्रभाव of inflation ) the real value of wages, salaries, pensions, for regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show परिवर्तन in रियल values.
in most countries, the CPI is, along with the population census and the USA National Income and Product Accounts, one of the सबसे closely watched national economic statistics.
Knocking on लकडी, or to टच लकडी, refers to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally touching/knocking on wood, or merely stating that you are doing or intend same, in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` बाद making a favourable अवलोकन, a boast, or declaration concerning one 's own death.
Rocker arm
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive, marine, motorcycle and reciprocating aviation engines, the rocker arm is an oscillating lever that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it.
एक end is उठाया and lowered by a rotating lobe of the camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) जबकि the अन्य end acts on the valve stem.
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside of the arm, the inside presses down on the valve stem, खोलने the valve.
When the बाहर of the arm is permitted to return due to the camshafts rotation, the अंदर rises, allowing the valve spring to close the वाल्व.
The drive cam is driven by the camshaft.
This pushes the रॉकर भुजा up and down about the trunnion pin or rocker shaft.
घर्षण may be reduced at the point of सम्पर्क with the valve stem by a roller cam अनुसरणकर्ता.
a similar arrangement transfers the motion via another रोलर cam अनुसरणकर्ता to a second rocker arm.
This rotates about the रॉकर shaft, and हस्तांतरण the motion via a tappet to the poppet valve.
in this case this opens the intake valve to the cylinder सिर.
The effective leverage of the arm ( और यूँ the force it can exert on the वाल्व stem ) is determined by the rocker arm अनुपात, the ratio of the distance इससे the रॉकर arm 's बीच of rotation to the tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current automotive design favors rocker arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the past smaller positive ratios ( the valve लिफ्ट is greater than the कैम lift ) and even negative ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have महरूम used.
Many pre-WW2 engines use 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios.
लिये car engines the rocker arms are generally steel stampings, providing a reasonable balance of शक्ति, वज़न and economical cost.
Because the rocker arms are, in part, प्रत्यागमनी weight, excessive mass विशेषकर at the लीवर ends limits the engine 's क्षमता to reach high operating speeds.
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in जॉर्जिया '' is a Southern Gothic song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by उसके then-wife vicki Lawrence.
Reba McEntire later covered it in 1991.
अंकित in late October 1972 in United/Western studios on सूर्यास्त in हॉलीवुड और released less than two सप्ताह later in नवम्बर 1972, the song centers around the older brother of the narrator, falsely convicted of और executed for a murder, which the narrator herself has committed.
In postal मेल, a return पता is an explicit समावेश of the पता of the व्यक्ति sending the message.
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine how to respond to the sender of the संदेश if needed.
The return address need not शामिल a sender 's name, but should include address or p.o. box details in the वही way as the delivery पता should.
In some countries, the return address is conventionally located in the upper left hand corner of the envelope, card, or label.
in the United Kingdom, the वापसी पता is usually placed on the reverse of the लिफाफा, near the top.
Businesses often use envelopes preprinted with a return address.
Many individuals have sheets of adhesive labels preprinted with their घर address to affix to their correspondence.
Charities sometimes include such चादरें in mailshots.
रोल्स of Return Address Labels can be purchased इससे companies that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an easy way to peel and stick return address labels to their लिफाफे.
The वापसी पता is नहीं required on डाक mail.
However, lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being समर्थ to वापसी the item if it proves undeliverable ; such as from क्षति, postage due, or invalid destination.
Such mail may thus become dead letter mail.
Should the return पता be of a different state or country, the मेल may be routed through that location for आसानी of return.
a nerve guidance conduit ( भी referred to as an कृत्रिम nerve conduit or artificial nerve graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial अर्थात् of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical उपचार लिये तंत्रिका injuries.
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a severed nerve can not be संपन्नता without tension, the standard नैदानिक treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous तंत्रिका grafting.
due to the सीमित availability of दाता tissue and functional रिकवरी in autologous nerve grafting, neural tissue अभियान्त्रिकी research रै focused on the development of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment, विशेषकर लिये विशाल defects.
Similar techniques हैं also being छान for nerve repair in the spinal cord but nerve regeneration in the central nervous system poses a greater challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their देशी पर्यावरण.
The सृष्टि of कृत्रिम conduits is also known as entubulation because the nerve ends and intervening gap हैं enclosed within a tube रचित of biological or synthetic materials.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube, synthetic ट्यूब or tissue-engineered conduit, it should facilitate neurotropic and neurotrophic communication between the proximal and distal ends of the nerve gap, block external inhibitory factors, and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth.
The most मौलिक objective of a nerve guidance conduit is to combine physical, chemical, and biological cues under conditions that will foster tissue formation.
Materials that have been used to मेक biologic tubes include रक्त बरतन and skeletal मांसपेशियां, while nonabsorbable और bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from silicone और polyglycolide respectively.
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many तत्व : scaffold structure, scaffold material, सेल्यूलर therapies, neurotrophic factors and biomimetic materials.
The choice of which शारीरिक, chemical and biological cues to use is based on the properties of the तंत्रिका environment, which is critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration.
The factors that control material चयन include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical अखंडता, controllability during nerve growth, implantation and sterilization.
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television श्रेणी उत्पादित by rdf USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for trutv about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry और Loan, a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield सड़क, between 8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit, मिशिगन.
the series premiered on August 16, 2010, delivering two million viewers, setting a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere ever.
amoxicillin BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ), formerly amoxycillin ( बैन ), and abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic used to दावत bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is usually the drug of choice भीतर the class because it is better absorbed, following oral administration, than other β-lactam antibiotics.
Amoxicillin is एक of the most common antibiotics विहित for children.
the drug became available in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria, जिससे are resistant to a व्यापक वर्णक्रम of β-lactam antibiotics, such as penicillin.
लिये this कारण, it is प्रायः संयुक्त with clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases effectiveness by reducing इसके susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as LBJ, थी the 36th President of the संयुक्त States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed बाद his service as the 37th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
he is one of only four people who served in all four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United राज्य Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961, सहित six years as United States Senate Majority Leader, दो as Senate Minority नेता and two as Senate बहुमत Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the Democratic nomination in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 अध्यक्षीय election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the हत्या of जॉन F. कैनेडी on November 22, 1963, completed कैनेडी 's term and थी elected President in his अपना right, winning by a विशाल हाशिया over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
जॉनसन was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as अध्यक्ष, he was responsible for डिजाइनिंग the `` ग्रेट Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld सिविल rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson थी renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment, '' his coercion of powerful politicians in अनुक्रम to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated अमरीकी भागीदारी in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer दंगे broke out in most प्रमुख शहरों after 1965, and अपराधों दरों soared, as his प्रतिद्वंद्वियों raised demands for `` law और अनुक्रम '' policies.
The लोकतांत्रिक Party split in अनेक feuding factions, and after जॉनसन did poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक, he ended his bid for reelection.
रिपब्लिकन Richard निक्सन was elected to सफल him.
Historians argue that Johnson 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the peak of modern उदारतावाद in the United States बाद the New Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by some इतिहासकारों because of his domestic policies.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009, from left : Kunal Nayyar, Simon helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim पार्सन्स, और Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang सिद्धान्त, निर्मित और executive उत्पादित by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
the show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon कूपर and Leonard hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have महरूम promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 guest ), a physicist colleague, and, at different times, a lover of दोनो Leonard and हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; ऋतु 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time वेट्रेस alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; ऋतु 4-present regular ), जो joins the group after होने matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( सीज़न 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, each of whom plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes.
The American सिविल War ( ACW ), also ज्ञात as the War between the राज्य or simply the सिविल War ( see naming ), was a सिविल war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और several दक्षिणी slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the war had its origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी powers किया not intervene.
After four सालो of खूनी combat that left over 600,000 soldiers मुर्दे and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, republicans, led by Abraham lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त States ' territories.
Lincoln won, लकिन before his उद्घाटन on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James बुकानन और the incoming Republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता declared उसके administration होता not initiate civil war.
आठ remaining slave states जारी to reject काल्स for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so निर्भर on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a key fort आयोजित by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, चार more स्लेव states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states और स्थापित a naval blockade कि crippled the southern अर्थव्यवस्था.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The पतझड़ 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union राज्य ) ended with Confederate retreat at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln जारी the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the वेस्ट, by summer 1862 the संघ destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट command of all Union armies in 1864.
in the पश्चिमी Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The संघ marshaled the resources और जनशक्ति to attack the confederacy इससे सब directions, and could afford to लड़ो battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the Confederate पूंजी.
The defending Confederate army विफल, leading to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons यहूद employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World युद्ध i.
It remains the deadliest war in American इतिहास, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian जॉन Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten प्रतिशत of सब Northern males 20–45 सालो old, and 30 percent of all दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
इंसान एवोल्यूशन refers to the विकासवादी process leading up to the appearance of modern humans.
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life, the टॉपिक usually covers तभी the evolutionary history of primates, in particular the genus Homo, और the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ).
the study of human evolution involves अनेक scientific disciplines, including physical anthropology, primatology, archaeology, भाषाविज्ञान, evolutionary psychology, embryology and genetics.
According to genetic studies, primates diverged from other mammals about in the Late Cretaceous period, and the earliest fossils appear in the paleocene, around.
the family मानवनुमा diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 million years ago, and around, the Ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged इससे the Hominidae परिवार.
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin लकीर, and the earliest bipedal Hominin is considered to be either Sahelanthropus or orrorin, with Ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat later.
The gorilla और chimpanzee diverged around the same समय, about 4-6 million years ago, and either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin may be our last shared ancestor with them.
The early bipedals eventually evolved into the australopithecines और later the genus Homo.
the earliest documented members of the genus Homo हैं Homo habilis which evolved around ; the earliest species लिये which there is positive evidence of उपयोग of स्टोन टूल्स.
the दिमाग of these early hominins were about the वही size as that of a chimpanzee.
During the next million सालो a process of encephalization began, and with the arrival of Homo erectus in the चट्टान record, cranial क्षमता had doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo इरेक्टस and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to leave Africa, and these प्रजाति spread through Africa, Asia, and यूरोपीय between.
It is believed that these species were the पहला to use fire और complex tools.
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory, modern humans evolved in Africa possibly इससे Homo heidelbergensis, Homo rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor and migrated आउट of the महाद्वीप कुछ 50,000 to 100,000 years ago, replacing local populations of होमो erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis और Homo neanderthalensis.
Archaic Homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically modern humans, evolved between 400,000 and 250,000 सालो पहले.
Recent DNA evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal उत्पत्ति are उपस्थित among all non-African populations, and Neanderthals and other hominids, such as denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically आधुनिक humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years पहले.
The परिवर्तन to behavioral modernity with the development of सांकेतिक culture, भाषा, and specialized lithic technology happened around 50,000 सालो पहले according to many anthropologists although कुछ suggest a gradual बदलें in बर्ताव over a longer time स्पैन.
Lisa Cuddy, M.D., is a fictional character on the Fox network medical drama House.
She is portrayed by लिसा edelstein.
Cuddy was the Dean of Medicine and हॉस्पिटल administrator of the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New Jersey.
She also becomes House 's प्रेम interest through the years to प्रारंभ a relationship with him in season seven.
Cuddy quit her जॉब after the events of season seven 's finale `` Moving On ``.
Track and field is a sport comprising various competitive athletic contests आधारित on कार्यशील, jumping, and throwing.
The name of the sport derives इससे the competition स्थान : a stadium with an oval running track around a grass field.
The throwing and jumping events generally take place in the central enclosed area.
Track and field जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the umbrella खेल of athletics, which also includes सड़क running, cross country running, and race walking.
the two सबसे prestigious international track and field competitions are held under the banner of athletics : the athletics competition at the Olympic Games and the IAAF World Championships in Athletics.
The International संघ of एथलेटिक्स Federations is the international governing देह लिये track and field.
Track and field events हैं generally व्यक्तिगत sports with athletes challenging each other to decide a single victor.
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest समय, while the कूद और फेंकना events are won by the athlete who has achieved the greatest अलहदा or height in the contest.
The running events are categorised as sprints, middle and long-distance कार्यक्रम, relays, and hurdling.
Regular jumping events include long जम्प, triple jump, high jump and pole vault, जबकि the most common throwing events are shot put, javelin, discus and हथौड़ा.
वहीँ are also `` combined events '', such as heptathlon and decathlon, in which athletes compete in a number of the ऊपर events.
Records हैं रखा of the best performances in specific कार्यक्रम, at world and national levels, right down to a personal स्तर.
However, if athletes are deemed to have violated the event 's rules or regulations, they are disqualified इससे the competition and their marks are erased.
In North अमेरिका, the term track and field may be used to refer to athletics in general, rather than specifically track and फ़ील्ड कार्यक्रम.
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) थी a war waged by a u.n.-authorized Coalition फ़ोर्स from 34 nations led by the United States, against Iraq in response to इराकी 's invasion and annexation of कुवैत.
The war is भी known under other names, such as the Persian Gulf युद्ध, First Gulf War, Gulf War I, or the पहला इराकी War, before the term `` Iraq War '' became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq युद्ध ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ).
कुवैत 's invasion by Iraqi सैनिकों कि began 2 August 1990 was met साथ international condemnation, and brought immediate economic प्रतिबंधों against Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S. forces into सऊदी Arabia, और urged अन्य countries to भेजें their अपना forces to the scene.
An array of nations joined the Coalition.
The great majority of the Coalition 's military forces were इससे the U.S., with Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom and मिश्र as leading contributors, in that order.
Saudi Arabia paid around US $ 36 billion of the US $ 60 अरब cost.
The war was चिह्नित by the शुरूआत of live news on the सामने lines of the fight, with the primacy of the U.S. network CNN.
The war has भी earned the nickname Video खेल War after the रोज़ broadcast images on board the U.S. बमवर्षक during आपरेशन Desert Storm.
the initial conflict to expel Iraqi troops इससे Kuwait began with an aerial bombardment on 17 January 1991.
This was followed by a मैदान assault on 24 February.
This was a decisive विजय for the Coalition forces, who liberated Kuwait and advanced into Iraqi territory.
The Coalition ceased their advance, and declared a cease-fire 100 घंटों after the ground campaign started.
Aerial and ground combat was confined to Iraq, कुवैत, and areas on Saudi Arabia 's border.
Iraq launched scud missiles against Coalition सैन्य targets in Saudi Arabia and against Israel.
The nickel, in अमरीकी usage, is a five- cent सिक्का जारी by the United राज्य Mint.
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 % निकल, the टुकड़ा has been struck since 1866.
The silver half dime, बराबर to five cents, had been issued since the 1790s.
The American Civil War caused economic hardship, driving सुनहरा and silver from circulation ; in response, in place of low-value सिक्के, the सरकारी at पहला issued paper currency.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional करेंसी note after Spencer M. क्लार्क, head of the Currency ब्यूरो ( today the Bureau of Engraving और मुद्रण ), लगाई his own portrait on the denomination.
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces, without precious मेटल, Congress भी authorized a five-cent piece consisting of base metal ; the Mint began striking this version in 1866.
The initial डिज़ाइन of the Shield nickel थी struck until 1883, then replaced by the Liberty Head nickel.
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as part of a drive to increase the सौंदर्य of American coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson nickel followed.
In 2004 and 2005, special designs in honor of the bicentennial of the लुईस and क्लार्क Expedition यहूद issued.
In 2006, the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix schlag 's original reverse ( or `` tails '' side ), हालांकि a नई obverse, by जेमी Franki, was substituted.
As of 2013, it costs more than ग्यारह सेंट to उपज a nickel ; the मिंट is exploring the possibility of reducing cost by using less expensive metals.
A poster with flowers or clusters of flowers produced by twelve प्रजाति of flowering plants from different परिवारों
A flower, sometimes ज्ञात as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive ढांचा found in flowering पौधे ( plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms ).
The biological function of a पुष्प is to प्रभाव reproduction, usually by providing a mechanism for the union of शुक्राणु with eggs.
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( संलयन of sperm and egg from the same flower ).
Some flowers उपज diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
Flowers contain sporangia and are the site where gametophytes develop.
Flowers give rise to fruit and seeds.
Many flowers have विकसित to be attractive to पशु, so as to cause them to be vectors for the transfer of pollen.
in addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering plants, पुष्प have long been admired and used by इंसानो to beautify उनके environment, और also as objects of romance, ritual, religion, medicine and as a source of food.
the McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather tactical सेनानी designed by mcdonnell Douglas to gain and maintain एयर superiority in aerial combat.
it is माना among the most successful modern fighters, with over 100 aerial combat victories साथ no losses in dogfights.
following reviews of proposals, the संयुक्त States Air Force selected McDonnell डगलस ' design in 1967 to मिलें the service 's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter.
The Eagle first उड़ाया in July 1972, and entered service in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the Eagle has महरूम exported to Israel, Japan, Saudi Arabia, and अन्य nations.
The f-15 was originally envisioned as a pure air superiority aircraft.
Its design included a secondary ground-attack capability कि थी largely unused.
The design proved लचीली enough that an all-weather strike डेरिवेटिव, the F-15E Strike Eagle, थी later developed, and entered service in 1989.
The F-15 Eagle is expected to be in service with the U.S. Air फ़ोर्स past 2025.
Mimio is a brand नाम of a line of technology products aimed at the education market.
The प्राथमिक products are focused around computer whiteboard interactive teaching devices.
mimiocapture devices also allow users to capture all of the ink strokes that are लिखा on the whiteboard.
जब used in conjunction with a video प्रोजेक्टर it turns the ordinary whiteboard surface into a fully interactive whiteboard.
the product line was originally designed by आभासी Ink.
on October 4, 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iwb ) product line.
Rahab of जेरिको
Rahab, ( ; ; ) थी, according to the Book of Joshua, a स्त्री who lived in जेरिको in the Promised Land and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
nearly all English translations of Joshua describe उसके as a harlot or prostitute.
the संगठन of American राज्य ( Spanish : Organización de लॉस Estados Americanos, Portuguese : Organização dos Estados Americanos, French : संगठन des États américains ), or the OAS, is a regional international organization.
The oas was संस्थापित on 30 अप्रैल 1948, and has its headquarters in Washington, D.C., United States.
Its members are the 35 independent states of the Americas.
Since 26 May 2005, the Secretary General of OAS has महरूम José Miguel insulza.
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : cristóvão Colombo ; before 31 अक्तूबर 145120 May 1506 ) was an इतालवी explorer, नाविक, and colonizer, born in the गणतंत्र of Genoa, in what is today northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain, he completed चार voyages across the Atlantic Ocean that led to general European awareness of the American continents.
Those voyages, and his efforts to establish permanent settlements on the island of Hispaniola, initiated the Spanish colonization of the नई संसार.
in the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking माल through the establishment of trade routes and colonies, कोलंबस 's सट्टे proposal, to reach the East Indies by sailing westward, eventually received the support of the Spanish crown, जिससे saw in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the upper hand over rival शक्तियां in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with एशिया.
During उसके first voyage in 1492, बजाय of reaching Japan as he had intended, कोलंबस landed in the बहामा archipelago, at a locale he named San Salvador.
Over the कोर्स of three अधिक voyages, कोलंबस visited the Greater और Lesser Antilles, as well as the caribbean coast of Venezuela and सेंट्रल अमेरिका, claiming them for the Spanish Empire.
हालांकि कोलंबस was not the पहला European explorer to reach the americas ( having been preceded by the Norse expedition led by Leif Ericson in the 11th century ), Columbus 's voyages led to the first lasting European contact with the Americas, inaugurating a period of European exploration, conquest, and colonization that lasted लिये several centuries.
They had, therefore, an enormous impact in the historical विकास of the modern Western world.
कोलंबस himself देखी उसके accomplishments primarily in the light of the spreading of the Christian religion.
never admitting that he had reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans, rather than the East Indies he had set आउट लिये, Columbus called the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ).
Columbus 's strained संबंध with the Spanish crown and its appointed औपनिवेशिक administrators in America led to his गिरफ़्तार and dismissal as राज्यपाल of the settlements on the island of Hispaniola in 1500, and later to protracted litigation over the benefits which Columbus and उसके heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown.
Bred in Germany, the Boxer is a breed of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
the coat is smooth और tight-fitting ; रंगों are fawn or brindled, with or without श्वेत markings, which may cover the entire body.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad, short skulls ), and have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), very दमदार jaws, and a शक्तिशाली bite ideal for फांसी on to large prey.
The Boxer was bred from the Old English Bulldog and the now विलुप्त Bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser समूह.
मुक्केबाज यहूद पहला exhibited in a dog show लिये St. bernards in Munich in 1895, the first Boxer club being founded the next year.
Based on 2012 अमरीकी Kennel Club statistics, मुक्केबाज held steady as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the United States लिये the third consecutive साल.
Serial ATA ( SATA ) is a कंप्यूटर bus interface that connects host बस adapters to mass storage devices such as मुश्किल डिस्क drives and optical drives.
Serial ATA replaces the older AT अनुलग्नक standard ( ATA ; बाद referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ), offering several advantages over the older interface : reduced cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ), native hot swapping, faster data transfer through higher signalling दरों, और more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol.
sata मेजबान adapters और devices communicate via a high-speed serial cable over two pairs of conductors.
In contrast, parallel ata ( the redesignation for the legacy ata specifications ) used a 16-bit wide data बस with many additional support and control signals, सब ऑपरेटिंग at much lower frequency.
To ensure backward compatibility with विरासत ata software and applications, sata uses the same basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices.
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in consumer डेस्कटॉप और laptop कंप्यूटर, and has largely replaced PATA in नई embedded अनुप्रयोग.
SATA 's market share in the desktop PC market थी 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely used in industrial और embedded applications that use CompactFlash storage, even though the new CFast standard is based on SATA.
सीरियल ATA industry compatibility specifications originate इससे The सीरियल ATA International Organization ( aka.
SATA-IO, serialata.org ).
The sata-io group collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, and publishes the interoperability specifications, the test cases, and plug-fests.
as with many other industry compatibility standards, the SATA content ownership is transferred to other industry bodies : primarily the incits T13 subcommittee ATA, the INCITS t10 subcommittee ( scsi ) ; a subgroup of t10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ).
The complete specification इससे SATA-IO.
the शेष of इस article होगा try to use the terminology and specifications of SATA-IO.
The history of the Internet began with the development of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that होता lead to the अंतरजाल जब a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California, Los Angeles ( UCLA ), after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford शोध संस्थान ( SRI ).
पैकेट switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, Tymnet, and Telenet, यहूद developed in the late 1960s and जल्दी 1970s using a variety of protocols.
the ARPANET in particular led to the development of प्रोटोकॉल for internetworking, in जिससे multiple separate संजाल could be joined साथ into a network of networks.
In 1982, the Internet प्रोटोकॉल suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized, and consequently, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP संजाल, पुकारा the Internet, was introduced.
अभिगम to the arpanet थी expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the कंप्यूटर विज्ञान Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided अभिगम to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education संगठन.
वाणिज्यिक Internet सेवा providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
the ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET थी decommissioned, निकालना the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry वाणिज्यिक traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture और commerce, including the वृद्धि of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, ब्लॉग, social networking, and ऑनलाइन shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher और higher speeds over fiber optic networks ऑपरेटिंग at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The अंतरजाल 's takeover over the global communication लैंडस्केप was almost instant in historical शर्तें : it only communicated 1 % of the information बहती through two-way telecommunications networks in the साल 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated सूचना by 2007.
Today the अंतरजाल continues to grow, driven by ever वृहद amounts of ऑनलाइन information, कॉमर्स, entertainment, and social networking.
The तोहफा is the second album by Scottish singer Susan बॉयल, which was released on 8 November 2010.
बॉयल hinted that the एल्बम has a 1960s महसूस `` because that थी [ her ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the album received a nomination in 54th Grammy Awards लिये Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album.
`` इस Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a famous imagist poem by William Carlos Williams.
Professor ऐल्बस Percival Wulfric Brian डम्बल्डोर is a major अक्षर और protagonist of J. K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
लिये most of the series, he is the headmaster of the wizarding school Hogwarts.
as part of his backstory, it is revealed that he is the founder and नेता of the Order of the Phoenix, an organisation dedicated to लड़ the main antagonist of the series, Lord Voldemort.
डम्बल्डोर is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptions of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone and Harry कुम्हार and the कक्ष of Secrets.
After Harris ' मौत, Michael Gambon portrayed Dumbledore for all of the remaining films.
Rowling stated वो chose the name डम्बल्डोर, जिससे is an जल्दी आधुनिक English शब्द लिये `` bumblebee ``, क्युकी of Dumbledore 's love of music : she imagined him चलना around `` humming to himself a लॉट ''.
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is produced in इंसानो primarily by the parafollicular कोशिकाएं ( also known as C-cells ) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial देह.
It acts to reduce blood calcium ( Ca2+ ), opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ).
Calcitonin रै been found in fish, reptiles, birds, and स्तनधारियों.
इसके importance in humans has not महरूम as खूब established as its importance in other animals, as its function is usually not significant in the विनियमन of normal calcium समस्थापन.
It belongs to calcitonin-like protein family.
a mousepad with a padded कलाई rest.
A mousepad ( us ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a सतह for placing और moving a कंप्यूटर चूहा.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a table by providing a surface to allow the tracking LED or बॉल ( in former मॉडल ) to measure movement accurately and without jitter.
कुछ mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded कलाई rest.
The stadium seen from above in 1980
December 29, 2002 implosion
The Riverfront Stadium site in June, 2006.
This फ़ोटो थी taken from the western concourse of Great American Ball पार्क.
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds ' Hall of Fame and Museum and Main Street, which was extended when the नई park थी built.
The Cincinnati bengals ' Paul भूरा स्टेडियम is in the distance.
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), later known as Cinergy Field ( 1996–2002 ), थी the home of the Cincinnati लाल नेशनल League baseball team and the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team.
Located on the Ohio नदी in शहर Cincinnati, the stadium was best known as the घर of `` The Big Red Machine ``, as the Reds were often called in the 1970s.
Construction began on फ़रवरी 1, 1968, and was completed at a cost of less than $ 50 million.
on June 30, 1970, the Reds hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening, साथ Hank Aaron hitting the first कभी घर run at riverfront.
Two weeks later on July 14, 1970, Riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख लीग Baseball all-star Game.
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at home थाली between लाल star Pete Rose and catcher Ray Fosse of the Cleveland Indians.
In September 1996, Riverfront Stadium थी renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a sponsorship deal with Greater Cincinnati 's energy company, Cinergy Corporation.
In 2001, to make room for Great American Ball Park, the seating क्षमता at cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000.
वहीँ was a huge wall in बीच फ़ील्ड visible बाद the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
The स्टेडियम थी demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer, headquartered in Yangsan, दक्षिण Gyeongsang Province, and Seoul, both in South Korea.
Its major domestic competitors are Hankook Tire and Kumho टायर.
The company 's नाम is reflected in the company slogan, `` Next सदी Tire. ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large बहुमत of people in a country or group who do not एक्स्प्रेस their opinions सरेआम.
The term was popularized ( हालांकि not first used ) by U.S. President Richard निक्सन in a November 3, 1969, speech in जिससे he said, `` And so tonight—to तुम, the ग्रेट silent बहुमत of my fellow americans—i ask for your support. ''
In इस उपयोग it referred to those Americans who did not join in the विशाल demonstrations against the Vietnam War at the time, who did not जुड़ें in the counterculture, and who किया not participate in public discourse.
Nixon along साथ many others saw this group of मध्य Americans as being overshadowed in the media by the अधिक vocal minority.
The phrase was प्रयुक्त in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the people who have died, और others have used it before and बाद Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the world.
sam, a rhesus मंकी, उड़ाया to an altitude of 88 km in 1959.
( NASA )
Before humans went into स्पेस, several animals were launched into स्पेस, including numerous monkeys, so कि scientists could investigate the biological effects of space सफर.
The United States launched flights containing primate cargo primarily between 1948-1961 with एक flight in 1969 and one in 1985.
France launched two monkey-carrying फ़्लाइट in 1967.
The Soviet संघ and Russia शुभारम्भ monkeys between 1983 and 1996.
Most बंदरों were anesthetized पहले lift-off.
Overall thirty-two monkeys flew in the space program ; none flew more than once.
Numerous back-up monkeys भी went through the programs but never flew.
Monkeys from several species were used, including rhesus बंदरों, cynomolgus monkeys, squirrel monkeys, और pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes rather than monkeys ) were भी used.
RAID ( अनावश्यक array of independent disks, originally अनावश्यक array of inexpensive disks ) is a storage technology that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit.
Data is distributed आरपार the ड्राइव in one of several ways called `` RAID levels '', depending on the स्तर of redundancy and performance जरूरी.
the term `` रेड '' was first defined by David Patterson, Garth A. गिब्सन, and रैंडी Katz at the University of California, बर्कली in 1987.
Marketers representing industry RAID manufacturers later attempted to reinvent the term to describe a अनावश्यक array of स्वतंत्र disks as a means of disassociating a low-cost expectation इससे RAID technology.
RAID is now used as an umbrella term लिये computer data storage schemes that can divide और replicate आंकड़ा among अनेक physical drives : RAID is an example of storage आभासीकरण and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single ड्राइव.
The different schemes or architectures are named by the word RAID followed by a number ( e.g. RAID 0, RAID 1 ).
प्रत्येक scheme provides a different balance between the key goals : विश्वसनीयता and availability, performance and capacity.
RAID levels वृहद than RAID 0 provide सुरक्षा against unrecoverable ( sector ) read errors, as well as whole disk failure.
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate immune system.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes and छोटी lymphocytes.
विशाल granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( nk cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells.
The बिग lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy film written and निर्देशित by Joel and Ethan Coen.
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff Lebowski, an unemployed Los Angeles slacker and avid bowler, nicknamed `` The Dude. ''
After a case of mistaken identity, The Dude is introduced to a millionaire also नामित Jeffrey Lebowski.
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped, he commissions The Dude to deliver the ransom to secure her release.
The योजना goes awry when The Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak ( John Goodman ) schemes to keep the full ransom.
Steve Buscemi, Philip Seymour Hoffman, David Huddleston, Julianne Moore, Tara reid, and जॉन Turturro also स्टार in the film, which is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '', played by Sam Elliott.
The फिल्मी is loosely inspired by the कार्य of Raymond Chandler.
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler kind of story – how it moves episodically, and सौदे with the वर्ण trying to सुलझाना a mystery, as well as having a hopelessly complex प्लाट that 's ultimately unimportant. ''
the original score was composed by Carter Burwell, a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers.
The Big Lebowski was a निराशा at the u.S. box office and received mixed reviews at the समय of its release.
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time, and the film has become a cult पसंदीदा, noted for its idiosyncratic characters, dream sequences, unconventional dialogue, and eclectic soundtrack.
Severus Snape is a fictional अक्षर in the Harry Potter किताब श्रेणी written by j.K. Rowling.
in the first novel of the series, he is hostile toward Harry and is built up to be the primary antagonist until the final chapters.
As the series progresses, Snape 's character becomes more परतदार and complex.
Rowling करता not fully reveal the details of his सच्चा loyalties until the समाप्त of the final book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Over the course of the श्रेणी, Snape 's portrayal evolves from कि of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily teaches potions at Hogwarts, though in the sixth novel he teaches Defence Against the Dark कला, a position which he was known to have desired throughout the श्रेणी.
He ultimately becomes Headmaster of हॉग्वार्ट्स in the final novel.
Rowling has described him as `` a gift of a character ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn food of Native American उत्पत्ति, that is common in the Southern United States and mainly खाया at breakfast.
Modern grits are commonly बना of alkali-treated corn known as hominy.
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from around the world such as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` तत्काल grits '' have महरूम processed to गति cooking.
The word `` grits '' गर्भाशयी from the Old अंग्रेज़ी word `` grytt, '' अर्थ coarse meal.
इस word originally referred to wheat और other porridges now known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize, unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages, is a food निकला from corn ( a New World plant ) and `` corn '' had been used to describe गेहूं products in many European regions.
`` Grits '' may be either singular or बहुवचन ; historically, in the American दक्षिण the शब्द was invariably एकवचन notwithstanding its बहुवचन form ( cf. such food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '', likewise बहुवचन in form, but singular in use ).
Sometimes, grits are called sofkee or sofkey ( इससे a native अमरीकी Muskogee word ).
In आणविक biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized अंडा after conception.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
कुछ cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore, elevated levels measured जब the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether this production is a contributing कारण or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' और over the counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent और illegal.
The Las Vegas स्ट्रिप World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North कोरियाई.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola कम्पनी of Atlanta, जॉर्जिया, और is often referred to बस as कोक ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States चूंकि कूच 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a patent medicine जब it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola थी bought out by businessman Asa griggs Candler, जिनकी marketing tactics led Coke to its दबदबा of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
the bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the कम्पनी, produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in संयोजन साथ filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, वितरित and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines.
ऐसे bottlers include coca-cola Enterprises, which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America और western Europe.
The coca-cola Company also sells concentrate for सोडा fountains to major restaurants and food सेवा distributors.
the Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other कोला drinks अंतर्गत the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including caffeine-free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special संस्करण with lemon, लाइम or कॉफी.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, coca-cola was the world 's most मूल्यवान brand.
An ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the government or by पार्लियामेंट लकिन with a significant degree of independence, who is charged साथ representing the interests of the public by investigating और addressing शिकायत of maladministration or violation of अधिकारों.
In some देशों an Inspector सामान्य, नागरिक Advocate or other official may have duties similar to those of a national ombudsman, and may also be appointed by the legislature.
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or नगरपालिका government, and unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by, or even work for, a corporation such as a यूटिलिटी प्रदायक or a newspaper, for an ngo, or for a professional regulatory body.
whether नियुक्त by the legislature, the कार्यपालिका, or an संगठन ( or, less frequently, elected by the constituency कि he or she serves ), the typical duties of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them, usually through recommendations ( बाइंडिंग or not ) or mediation.
ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify systemic issues leading to ग़रीब service or breaches of people 's rights.
At the national level, most ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal with the entire पब्लिक sector, और sometimes भी elements of the private sector ( लिये example, contracted service providers ).
In some cases, there is a more restricted जनादेश, for example with particular sectors of society.
More हाल developments have included the creation of specialised Children 's Ombudsman and सूचना Commissioner agencies.
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman चार्ज with the handling of concerns about national सरकारी is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g. the United Kingdom संसदीय कमिश्नर for Administration, और the Western Australian राज्य Ombudsman ).
in many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged maladministration to promoting and protecting human rights, the ombudsman is recognised as the national इंसान rights institution.
The post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century been instituted by most governments and by some intergovernmental organizations such as the European Union.
Making a शिकायत to an ombudsman is usually free of charge.
Sign at georgetown विश्वविद्यालयों Washington DC
Sign in Banjul, The Gambia
पतझड़ in New England, watercolor, मौरिस Prendergast.
Ca. 1910–1913
Fall foliage in the town of स्टो, Vermont
New England is a प्रदेश in the northeastern corner of the United राज्य consisting of the six states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and कनेक्टिकट.
नई England is bordered by New York राज्य to the southwest, Quebec to the northwest, and New Brunswick and the Atlantic समंदर to the east.
In one of the earliest English settlements in North America, तीर्थयात्रियों from इंग्लैण्ड first settled in New England in 1620, to form Plymouth Colony.
Ten सालो later, the Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in बोस्टन, यूँ forming Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Over the अगला 130 सालो, New England लड़ा in चार French and Indian Wars, until the British defeated the फ्रेंच and their native allies in North अमेरिका.
In the late 18th century, the New इंग्लैण्ड Colonies initiated the resistance to the अंग्रेजों Parliament 's efforts to impose नई taxes without the सहमति of the colonists.
the Boston Tea Party was a protest to जिससे Great Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government, which यहूद termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the British authorities from New England in वसन्त 1776, and the घोषणा of Independence in जुलाई 1776.
कुछ of the first आंदोलनों of American साहित्य, philosophy, and education originated in New इंग्लैण्ड.
The region played a prominent role in the गति to abolish गुलामी, and थी the पहला region of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution.
Today, New England is a major world center of education, high technology, insurance, and medicine.
Boston is इसके cultural, वित्तीय, educational, medical और transportation center.
Each state is प्रधानतया subdivided into small incorporated municipalities known as New England towns, which are प्रायः governed by town meeting.
the only unincorporated territory in New England exists in the sparse, उत्तरी regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and maine.
Since 1970, voters have अधिक often supported liberal candidates at the राज्य और federal level than those of कोई other region in the United States.
नई England is the only one of the United राज्य Census Bureau 's nine regional divisions whose name does नहीं derive from its geography, and it is the तभी multi-state region with clear, consistent boundaries.
It maintains a strong भाव of cultural identity set apart from the rest of the country, although the terms of इस identity are often contested, combining Puritanism with liberalism, कृषिक जीवन साथ उद्योग, and अलगाव with immigration.
Emergency !
is an American टेलीविज़न series that combines the medical नाटक and action-adventure जाति.
It was produced by Mark सात Limited and वितरित by Universal Studios.
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15, 1972, on NBC, replacing the two short-lived series The साझेदार and The शुभ Life, and ran until September 3, 1977, with six अतिरिक्त two-hour television films during the following two सालो.
Emergency !
was created और produced by Jack Webb and रॉबर्ट A. Cinader, both of whom यहूद also responsible लिये the police dramas Adam-12 और Dragnet.
the Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 U.S. states in the eastern part of the contiguous United States, parts of कनाडा और three countries in South America.
Places that use Eastern मानक Time ( EST ) when observing standard time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ), when observing daylight saving time ( spring/summer ) is 4 hours behind समन्वित Universal समय ( ).
In the northern parts of the समय मण्डल, during the second Sunday in March, at 2:00 a.m. EST, clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. edt leaving a one hour `` gap. ''
दौरान the first संडे in नवम्बर, at 2:00 a.m. edt, clocks हैं moved back to 1:00 a.m. EST, thus `` duplicating '' one घंटा.
Southern भाग of the मण्डल ( Panama and the Caribbean ) do not observe daylight saving.
Standard form of the periodic table.
The colors represent different categories of elements explained below.
The periodic table is a tabular प्रदर्शक of the chemical elements, organized on the basis of their atomic numbers, electron configurations, और पुनरावर्ती रासायनिक properties.
Elements are presented in order of increasing atomic क्रमांक ( number of protons ).
the standard रूप of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body of तत्व, positioned above a smaller double row of elements.
The table can भी be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, और the f-block below कि.
The पंक्ति of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, and p-blocks are called groups, with some of these having names such as the halogens or the प्रतिष्ठित gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates recurring trends, any such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the तत्व और भविष्यवाणी the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, तत्व.
As a परिणाम, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी framework लिये analyzing chemical behavior, and such tables हैं widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri mendeleev is generally credited with the publication, in 1869, of the first widely पहचाना periodic table.
He विकसित his table to illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also पूर्वानुमानित कुछ properties of then-unknown elements that होता be अपेक्षित to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the elements in सवाल were subsequently discovered.
mendeleev 's periodic table has since महरूम expanded और refined with the discovery or संश्लेषण of further new elements और the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from परमाणु numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been खोजा or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally, although some are found only in trace amounts और were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
the elements after 98 have only महरूम synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being धड़ा, with the question of how the आवधिक table may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been उत्पादित in laboratories.
minecraft is a sandbox indie खेल originally created by स्वीडिश प्रोग्रामर markus `` पायदान '' Persson and later developed and published by Mojang.
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17, 2009, as a developmental alpha version and, after gradual updates, was published as a पूरा release version on नवम्बर 18, 2011.
a version लिये Android was released a month earlier on October 7, and an iOS version was released on November 17, 2011.
On May 9, 2012, the game was released on Xbox 360 as an Xbox सजीव Arcade game, co-developed by 4J Studios.
सब versions of Minecraft receive periodic updates.
The रचनात्मक and building पहलुओं of Minecraft allow players to build constructions आउट of textured cubes in a 3D procedurally generated world.
Other activities in the game include exploration, महफ़िल resources, crafting और combat.
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal मोड्स : survival, which requires players to acquire resources and maintain their health और hunger ; and creative, where खिलाड़ी have an असीमित सप्लाई of resources, the ability to fly, और no health or hunger.
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival, differing only in difficulty ; it is set to hardest setting और respawning is disabled, forcing players to delete उनके worlds upon death.
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation पुरस्कार, Best Downloadable खेल Award, and the बेहतरीन Debut Game Award from the Game डेवलपर Choice पुरस्कार ; and the Audience पुरस्कार, as well as the seumas McNally Grand Prize, from the Independent Games Festival in 2011.
in 2012, Minecraft was awarded a Golden जॉयस्टिक Award in the category Best downloadable Game.
As of April 8, 2013, the game has sold over 10 million copies on PC and as of जनवरी 22, 2013, over 20 लाख copies across all platforms.
The अंधेरा Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero film directed, produced, and co-written by Christopher Nolan.
Based on the DC Comics character Batman, the फिल्मी is the second part of नोलन 's Batman film series and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the सीसे role of Bruce Wayne/Batman, साथ a returning cast of Michael caine as Alfred pennyworth, Gary Oldman as James Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius फॉक्स.
The film introduces the character of घनघोर Dent ( आरोन Eckhart ), Gotham 's newly elected ज़िला Attorney and the consort of Bruce Wayne 's childhood friend Rachel Dawes ( Maggie जिलएनहॉल ), who joins बैटमैन and the police in combating the new rising threat of a criminal mastermind calling himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ).
Nolan 's प्रेरणा for the फिल्मी was the Joker 's कॉमिक book debut in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel, and the 1996 series, which retold Two-Face 's origin.
The nickname `` the अंधेरा Knight '' was first applied to Batman in Batman No. 1 ( 1940 ), in a स्टोरी written by Bill उंगली.
The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in several other locations in the संयुक्त States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film some sequences, including the Joker 's first रूप in the film.
On January 22, 2008, कुछ months after he had समाप्त filming on the अंधेरा Knight and six months पहले the फिल्मी 's release, Heath लेजर died from a toxic combination of नुस्खा दवाएँ, अग्रणी to intense attention from the press and movie-going public.
warner Bros. था initially created a viral marketing अभियान for The अंधेरा नाईट, developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen गोलियाँ of लेजर as the Joker, but after Ledger 's मौत, the studio refocused its promotional campaign.
The Dark नाईट was released on July 16, 2008 in Australia, on July 18, 2008 in North America, and on July 24, 2008 in the United Kingdom.
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero films ever बना, the फिल्मी received highly positive reviews and set numerous records दौरान its theatrical run.
With over $ 1 billion in revenue विश्वव्यापी, it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all समय, unadjusted for inflation.
The film प्राप्त eight Academy Award nominations ; it won the award for बेहतरीन Sound Editing and Ledger was मरणोपरांत awarded Best Supporting Actor.
the Dark Knight उदय, the final part of the trilogy, was released on July 20, 2012.
The timeline of रेडियो lists within the history of रेडियो, the technology and events कि produced instruments that उपयोग radio waves and क्रियाएँ that people undertook.
Later, the history is वर्चस्व by programming और contents, जिससे is closer to सामान्य history.
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South Wales, Australia.
It थी conceived and largely built by Danish architect Jørn Utzon, opening in 1973 after a long gestation that began with his competition-winning design in 1957.
जोसेफ काहिल 's नई दक्षिण वेल्स सरकारी gave the go-ahead लिये work to शुरू in 1958.
The government 's बिंदास decision to चुनें Utzon 's design is often निष्प्रभ by the scandal that followed.
It is on Bennelong Point in Sydney Harbour, close to the Sydney Harbour Bridge.
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central कारोबार district ( the CBD ), surrounded on three sides by the harbour ( सिडनी कोव and फार्म कोव ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Contrary to its name, it houses multiple performance venues.
It is among the busiest performing कला centres in the world, hosting over 1,500 performances प्रत्येक year attended by some 1.2 million लोगों.
it provides a venue लिये many performing-arts companies, including the four key resident companies Opera Australia, The Australian Ballet, the Sydney Theatre कम्पनी and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and presents a wide range of प्रोडक्शन्स on its own account.
it is भी one of the most popular visitor attractions in Australia, with more than seven million people visiting प्रत्येक साल, 300,000 of whom लो a हिदायत tour.
It is administered by the Sydney Opera हाउस Trust, under the New South Wales Ministry of the Arts.
On 28 June 2007, it was बना a युनेस्को संसार Heritage Site.
It is one of the 20th century 's most distinctive buildings and एक of the most famous performing कला centres in the world.
A graph of देह mass index as a फलन of body mass and body height is shown above.
The dashed lines represent subdivisions within a प्रमुख क्लास.
For उदाहरण the `` Underweight '' classification is further divided into `` severe '', `` moderate '', and `` mild '' subclasses.
the देह mass अनुक्रमणिका ( BMI ), or Quetelet index, is a measure for human body shape based on an individual 's weight and height.
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the belgian बहुश्रुत Adolphe Quetelet दौरान the कोर्स of developing `` सोशल physics ''.
देह mass index is defined as the व्यक्तिगत 's body द्रव्यमान divided by the वर्गाकार of their height.
The formulae universally used in medicine produce a unit of measure of kg/m2.
BMI can भी be संकल्पित using a BMI chart, which displays BMI as a function of weight ( horizontal axis ) and height ( vertical axis ) using contour lines for different मान of BMI or colors for different BMI categories.
† The factor लिये uk/us units is more precisely 703.06957964, but that level of precision is not meaningful for this calculation.
To work इससे स्टोन and pounds पहला multiply the stone by 14 then add the pounds to give the whole द्रव्यमान in pounds ; to work from feet and inches पहला multiply the feet by 12 then add the इंच to give the whole ऊँचाई in inches.
Thomas paine ( January 29, 1737 ( NS February 9, 1737 ) – June 8, 1809 ) was an English-American political activist, author, राजनैतिक theorist and revolutionary.
As the author of दो highly influential pamphlets at the start of the American Revolution, he प्रेरित the देशप्रेमी in 1776 to declare independence from Britain.
His ideas reflected Enlightenment era rhetoric of transnational human rights.
He has been called `` a corsetmaker by trade, a journalist by profession, और a propagandist by inclination. ''
born in Thetford, England, in the county of नॉर्फ़ोक, Paine emigrated to the British अमरीकी colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the अमरीकी Revolution.
His principal contributions were the powerful, widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain, and The American संकट ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
Common Sense थी so influential that जॉन Adams said, `` Without the कलम of the author of Common Sense, the sword of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
Paine जिया in France for सबसे of the 1790s, becoming deeply involved in the French क्रान्ति.
He wrote the Rights of man ( 1791 ), in part a defence of the French क्रान्ति against its आलोचकों.
His attacks on British writer Edmund Burke led to a trial and conviction in absentia in 1792 for the अपराधों of seditious मानहानि.
In 1792, despite not being able to बोलो फ्रेंच, he was elected to the French National Convention.
The girondists regarded him as an ally.
Consequently, the Montagnards, especially Robespierre, regarded him as an enemy.
In दिसम्बर 1793, he was arrested and imprisoned in Paris, तब released in 1794.
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ), his किताब कि advocates deism, promotes reason and freethinking, and argues against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular.
He भी wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of property, and introduced the concept of a गारंटी minimum income.
In 1802, he returned to America जहाँ he died on June 8, 1809.
तभी छह people attended his funeral as he था been ostracized लिये his ridicule of Christianity.
Clinical trials हैं sets of परीक्षण in medical research and drug development कि generate safety and efficacy data ( or अधिक specifically, information about प्रतिकूल drug reactions and adverse effects of other treatments ) for health interventions ( e.g., drugs, diagnostics, devices, therapy protocols ).
They are conducted only after satisfactory information has been gathered on the quality of the non clinical safety, and health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country जहाँ स्वीकृति of the drug or device is sought.
Previously, many emerging देशों did not आवश्यकता local trials for product approvals.
Now, though emerging countries still accept आंकड़ा from U.S./Europe, they also require some local trials.
Depending on the प्रकार of उत्पाद and the stage of its development, जांचकर्ताओं initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot अध्ययन, and subsequently conduct larger scale अध्ययन in patients that often compare the new product with अन्य already स्वीकृत for the affliction of interest.
As धनात्मक सुरक्षा और efficacy data are gathered, the number of मरीजों is typically increased.
Clinical trials can vary in आकार, and can involve a single शोध entity in one country or many such entities in अनेक देशों.
A full श्रेणी of trials may incur sizable costs, and the burden of paying for all the necessary people and services is usually borne by the sponsor, which may be a governmental organization or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device company.
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of the sponsor, a clinical trial is प्रबंधित by an outsourced partner, ऐसे as a contract research organization or a clinical trials unit in the अकादमिक sector.
The ग्रीन Bay Packers are an American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
They हैं members of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
ग्रीन Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the एनएफएल, having been organized और playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned major league professional sports टोली in the संयुक्त States.
The Packers हैं the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were एकबार common in the एनएफएल during the 1920s और 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by अर्ल `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on जिससे the team plays ) और George Whitney Calhoun, the Green Bay पैकर्स can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in ग्रीन Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team against क्लब from around विस्कॉन्सिन and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known आज as the National Football League ( एनएफएल ).
हालांकि Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' टोली, its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected घर games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( अधिक than any other team in the NFL ), including nine NFL championships prior to the Super कटोरी era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super Bowl ii ), 1997 ( सुपर Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with उनके NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents, the Chicago bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
इथेनॉल fuel is ethanol ( ethyl alcohol ), the same प्रकार of दारू found in alcoholic beverages.
It is most often used as a motor ईंधन, mainly as a biofuel additive for gasoline.
World इथेनॉल उत्पादन लिये हस्तांतरण fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 billion to more than 52 billion liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in global gasoline type ईंधन use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
In 2011 worldwide इथेनॉल fuel उत्पादन reached 22.36 अरब U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ), with the संयुक्त States as the top producer with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ), accounting for 62.2 % of global production, followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ).
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon equivalency `` ( gge ) मान of, which means 1.5 gallons of ethanol उपज the energy of one gallon of गैसोलीन.
Ethanol ईंधन is widely used in Brazil and in the United States, and together both countries were responsible for 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011.
Most cars on the सड़क today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10 % इथेनॉल, and ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from घरेलू sources in 2011.
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to blend इथेनॉल साथ gasoline, and चूंकि 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25 ).
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel मोटरसाइकिल that regularly उपयोग neat इथेनॉल fuel ( known as E100 ).
bioethanol is a form of renewable उर्जा that can be produced from agricultural feedstocks.
It can be बना from very common फसलों such as sugar cane, potato, manioc and corn.
There has been considerable बहस about how उपयोगी bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline.
Concerns about its production और उपयोग सुनाना to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land required for फसलों, as well as the energy और pollution संतुलन of the whole cycle of ethanol production, especially from corn.
हाल developments साथ cellulosic ethanol उत्पादन और commercialization may allay some of these concerns.
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise क्युकी cellulose fibers, a major and universal component in संयंत्र cells walls, can be used to produce ethanol.
according to the International उर्जा Agency, cellulosic ethanol could allow ethanol fuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously thought.
Saab 9-3 SportCombi BioPower.
the second E85 flexifuel model introduced by Saab in the Swedish market.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque बदला from Cyrillic to Latin script )
a plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, वारिस presumptive to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, were shot dead in Sarajevo, by Gavrilo Princip, one of a group of छह Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a वृहद Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives यहूद consistent with the movement that later became ज्ञात as Young Bosnia.
Serbian military officers stood behind the attack.
at the top of ये Serbian सैन्य conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military प्रज्ञा Dragutin Dimitrijević, his righthand man प्रमुख Vojislav Tankosić, और masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major tankosić armed the हत्यारे with bombs and pistols और trained them.
the assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents कि Rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the infiltration of हथियार और operatives into Austria-Hungary.
the assassins, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the कुंजी Serbian सैन्य conspirators who were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those जो were arrested in Bosnia were tried in साराजेवो in October 1914.
The other षड्यंत्रकारियों were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo अदालत on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन of the top military conspirators.
much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and related records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and हत्याएं of 28 June is highly controversial because the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार War I one माह later.
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born April 25, 1969 ) is an American actress and producer.
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her भूमिका in the film Jerry मैग्वायर ( 1996 ), और subsequently प्राप्त two nominations for the अकादमी पुरस्कार for Best अभिनेत्री for उसके roles as ब्रिजेट Jones in the comedy Bridget जोन्स 's Diary ( 2001 ), और as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
वो won the Academy Award for Best Supporting अभिनेत्री for उसके प्रदर्शन in the drama Cold Mountain ( 2003 ).
She has won an Academy पुरस्कार, three Golden Globe Awards, तीन स्क्रीन Actors Guild पुरस्कार, and a BAFTA Award ; was नामित Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood अभिनेत्रियों as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) हैं the three smallest bones in the human body, the malleus, the incus and the stapes.
They are contained within the middle कान space and serve to transmit ध्वनि from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
The absence of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss.
The term `` ossicles '' literally means `` tiny bones '' and commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body.
the New वचन ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical interpretation originally निकला from a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah, in the Hebrew शास्त्रों.
It is often thought of as an eschatological मुक्तिदाता आयु or संसार to come और is related to the biblical अवधारणा of the Kingdom of God.
Generally, ईसाइयों believe that the New Covenant was instituted at the Last Supper as भाग of the Eucharist, which in the इन्जील of John शामिल the नई Commandment.
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant, as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian believers और God that will be in पूरा फलीभूत बाद the Second Coming of Christ ; कि is, it will not तभी be in full fruition in believing hearts, but in the future बाह्य संसार as well.
the connection between the Blood of Christ और the New Covenant is seen in सबसे modern English translations of the New Testament with the saying : `` this cup that is poured out for तुम is the new covenant in my blood ''.
Christians believe कि यीशु is the mediator of the New Covenant, and that the Blood of मसीह शेड at his crucifixion is the जरूरी blood of the covenant.
As with all covenants between God and man described in the Bible, the New वचन is माना `` a bond in blood sovereignly administered by God. ''
It रै been theorized that the नई Covenant is the Law of Christ as spoken during his Sermon on the Mount.
The following List of people pardoned or granted दया by the अध्यक्ष of the United States documents the most prominent cases of प्रत्येक presidency.
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II, Section 2, clause 1 ), Presidents have the power to ग्रान्ट clemency in one or more of the following तरीके : the ability to grant a full pardon, to commute a sentence, or to तोड़ना a fine.
u.S. Presidents have no power to ग्रान्ट clemency लिये crimes prosecuted अंतर्गत state विधि.
as to the difference between a pardon and a commutation:
a pardon is an executive अनुक्रम vacating a conviction.
a commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of किसी currently सेवारत a sentence लिये a crime pursuant to a conviction, बगैर vacating the conviction itself.
लगभग 20,000 pardons and clemencies were issued by u.S. presidents in the 20th century alone.
The रिकॉर्ड of acts of दया यहूद public until 1934.
In 1981 the Office of the Pardon Attorney was निर्मित and रिकॉर्ड from President H. W. Bush आगे are now सूचीबद्ध.
This सूची includes pardons and commutations.
Tampa ( ) is a city in the U.S. state of Florida.
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is located on the west coast of Florida, on Tampa Bay निकट the Gulf of Mexico.
The जनसांख्यिकी of Tampa in 2011 was 346,037.
The current location of tampa was once inhabited by indigenous peoples of the सुरक्षा Harbor culture, most notably the tocobaga and the Pohoy, who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay.
It थी briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century, लकिन there यहूद no permanent अमरीकी or European settlements within today 's city limits जबतक after the United States था acquired Florida from Spain in 1819.
In 1824, the संयुक्त States Army स्थापित a frontier outpost called फोर्ट ब्रुक at the मुँह of the Hillsborough River, near the site of today 's Tampa सम्मेलन Center.
The पहला civilian residents were pioneers who settled near the fort लिये protection from the आसपास Seminole population.
The कस्बा grew slowly until the 1880s, जब railroad कड़ी, the discovery of phosphate, and the arrival of the सिगार industry jump-started Tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s.
Today, Tampa is a part of the metropolitan area सबसे commonly referred to as the Tampa Bay Area.
For U.S. जनसांख्यिकी purposes, Tampa is part of the tampa-st. Petersburg-Clearwater, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 लाख residents, making it the दूसरी largest metropolitan statistical क्षेत्रफल ( MSA ) in the state, and the चौथी largest in the Southeastern United States, behind Miami, Washington, d.C., and Atlanta.
The Greater Tampa Bay क्षेत्रफल has just over 4 million निवासियों और generally शामिल the Tampa and Sarasota metro areas.
the Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data दिखाया an औसत annual growth of 2.47 percent, or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year.
Between 2000 and 2006, the Greater Tampa Bay Market अनुभवी a combined growth rate of 14.8 percent, growing from 3.4 million to 3.9 लाख and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1, 2007.
a 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have 4,310,524 people and a 2017 projection of 4,536,854 लोगों.
Tampa has a number of sports teams, such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the National Football League, the Tampa खाड़ी Lightning of the National हॉकी League, and the Tampa खाड़ी Storm of the Arena Football League.
The Tampa Bay Rays in प्रमुख League Baseball and the Tampa Bay rowdies of the North अमरीकी Soccer League खेल their घर games in neighboring st. पीटर्सबर्ग, Florida.
In 2008, tampa was ranked as the 5th बेहतरीन बाहरी नगर by Forbes.
A 2004 survey by the NYU newspaper Washington Square News ranked Tampa as a top city for `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is अभी ranked as a `` Gamma '' world city by loughborough University.
according to loughborough, tampa बाँधने alongside other world cities ऐसे as Phoenix, सेंटो डोमिंगो, and Osaka.
In recent years Tampa रै seen a notable upsurge in high-market demand इससे consumers, signaling more wealth concentrated in the क्षेत्रफल.
Tampa hosted the 2012 रिपब्लिकन National Convention.
The शेवरलेट cavalier was a compact automobile उत्पादित from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors.
Built on the कम्पनी 's J platform, the Cavalier produced the highest sales in 1984.
AT & T गतिशीलता LLC branded and referred to as AT & t ( formerly cingular Wireless LLC ), is a wholly owned subsidiary of AT & T Inc. that provides wireless services to 107 million subscribers in the संयुक्त States, including Puerto रीको and the U.S. वर्जिन Islands.
AT & T Mobility is the दूसरी largest बेतार telecommunications provider in the United States and Puerto रीको, behind Verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 लाख customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012.
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the Lenox Park area of DeKalb Co. जॉर्जिया, बस outside Atlanta.
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC इससे 2000 to 2007, a joint venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth, the company acquired the old AT & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the original AT & t and re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
Cingular became wholly owned by AT & T in December 2006 as a परिणाम of AT & t 's acquisition of bellsouth.
in January 2007, Cingular confirmed it would re-brand itself under the AT & T नाम.
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately, for both regulatory and brand-awareness कारण दोनो brands were used in the company 's signage and विज्ञापन दौरान a परिवर्तन period.
the transition concluded in लेट June, just prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
On March 20, 2011, at & T Mobility announced its intention to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche telekom for $ 39 billion.
If it had प्राप्त government and regulatory approval, at & T would have था more than 130 million सदस्य.
However, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Communications Commission, और AT & t गतिशीलता 's competitors ( such as Sprint Nextel ) opposed the move on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market.
in दिसम्बर 2011, in the face of both सरकारी and फैली consumer opposition, AT & t withdrew their प्रस्ताव to complete the merger.
Martin Luther King, Jr. ( January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968 ) थी an American clergyman, activist, and leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
He is best known for his भूमिका in the advancement of सिविल अधिकारों using nonviolent civil disobedience.
King has become a national icon in the history of American progressivism.
A Baptist minister, King became a सिविल rights activist early in his career.
He led the 1955 Montgomery बस Boycott and helped found the Southern Christian Leadership Conference ( sclc ) in 1957, सेवारत as इसके first president.
With the SCLC, किंग led an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in Albany, जॉर्जिया, in 1962, and organized nonviolent protests in Birmingham, अलबामा, कि attracted national attention following television news coverage of the brutal पुलिस response.
King also helped to व्यवस्थित the 1963 March on वॉशिंगटन, where he वितरित his `` I Have a सपना `` वाक.
There, he established उसके reputation as one of the महानतम orators in अमरीकी इतिहास.
he also established his प्रतिष्ठा as a radical, and became an object of the Federal ब्यूरो of Investigation 's cointelpro for the rest of his life.
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties, recorded उसके extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government officials, and on एक occasion, mailed King a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him कमिट suicide.
On October 14, 1964, King received the Nobel Peace Prize for combating जातिगत inequality through nonviolence.
In 1965, he and the sclc helped to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches and the following year, he took the movement north to Chicago.
In the final सालो of his life, किंग expanded his फ़ोकस to शामिल poverty और the Vietnam War, alienating अनेक of his liberal allies साथ a 1967 वाक titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
किंग थी नियोजन a national occupation of Washington, D.C., पुकारा the Poor People 's Campaign.
King was assassinated on April 4, 1968, in मेम्फिस, Tennessee.
His death was followed by riots in many u.S. cities.
Allegations that James Earl Ray, the man convicted of killing King, had महरूम framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट साथ government agents persisted for decades after the shooting, and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against किंग.
King थी awarded the Presidential पदक of Freedom and the Congressional Gold पदक posthumously.
Martin Luther किंग, Jr. दिन was established as a U.S. federal holiday in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have been renamed in his honor.
A memorial statue on the National Mall was खोली to the public in 2011.
The tiger ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest cat species, reaching a total देह length of up to and weighing up to.
it is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only the polar bear and the भूरा bear ).
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of dark vertical stripes on reddish-orange fur साथ a lighter underside.
It has exceptionally stout teeth, and the canines हैं the longest among living felids with a crown ऊँचाई of as much as or even.
In zoos, टाइगर्स have जिया for 20 to 26 years, which also seems to be their longevity in the wild.
वे are territorial and generally solitary but social पशु, often requiring large संलग्न areas of आवास कि support their prey requirements.
इस, coupled with the fact कि वे are स्वदेशी to some of the more densely populated places on Earth, रै caused significant विरोध साथ humans.
Tigers once ranged widely across एशिया, from तुर्कों in the west to the eastern coast of Russia.
Over the past 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their historic range, and have महरूम extirpated from southwest and central Asia, from the आइलैंड्स of Java and Bali, and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia.
Today, वे range from the Siberian taiga to open grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps.
The remaining six tiger subspecies have been classified as endangered by आईयूसीएन.
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals, down from around 100,000 at the प्रारंभ of the 20th सदी, with most remaining populations occurring in छोटी pockets isolated from each other.
Major reasons for population decline include habitat विनाश, आवास fragmentation and poaching.
the extent of area occupied by tigers is estimated at less than, a 41 % decline from the क्षेत्रफल estimated in the mid-1990s.
Tigers are among the most recognisable और popular of the world 's charismatic megafauna.
वे have featured prominently in ancient mythology and लोकगीत, and continue to be depicted in modern films and literature.
Tigers appear on many flags, coats of arms, and as mascots for sporting teams.
The Bengal tiger is the national animal of both India और Bangladesh.
The simplified internal structure of a chloroplast
अवलोकन of the Calvin cycle and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis हैं chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide और other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes.
These प्रतिक्रियाएँ take the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ and perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation, reduction प्रतिक्रियाएँ, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this प्रक्रम occurs तभी when light is available.
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by रात्रि.
They, instead, रिलीज sucrose into the phloem from their मंड reserves.
This process happens when light is उपलब्धियाँ independent of the दयालु of photosynthesis ( C3 कार्बन fixation, C4 कार्बन fixation, and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and रिलीज it by day in order to make this process कार्य.
A linen handkerchief with pulled लड़ी embroidery around the edges
Linen cloth recovered from Qumran गुफा 1 near the Dead Sea.
Linen ( ) is a textile made from the fibers of the flax संयंत्र, Linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, लकिन when it is made into garments, it is valued for its exceptional coolness and ताजगी in hot weather.
The word `` लिनेन '' is of वेस्ट Germanic origin और cognates with the Latin नाम for the flax plant linum, and the पहले यूनानी λινόν ( linon ).
This word history has given वृद्धि to a number of other terms in English, the most notable of which is the English word line, निकला from the use of a linen ( flax ) लड़ी to determine a सीधा line.
Textiles in a linen weave texture, even when made of cotton, hemp and other non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen ''.
ऐसे fabrics generally have उनके own specific names अन्य than linen ; for example, fine cotton yarn in a linen-style weave is called madapolam.
The collective term `` linens `` is still often used generically to describe a class of woven and even knitted bed, bath, table और kitchen वस्त्र.
The नाम linens is retained because traditionally, linen was प्रयुक्त for many of these वस्तुएं.
in the past, the word `` linens '' थी भी used to mean lightweight undergarments such as shirts, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a शब्द also cognate with लिनेन ), and detachable shirt collars and cuffs, which यहूद historically बना almost exclusively out of लिनेन.
The inside cloth परत of fine composite clothing garments ( as for example jackets ) was traditionally made of linen, and this is the origin of the word lining.
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the संसार : their इतिहास goes back many thousands of years.
Fragments of straw, seeds, मछली, yarns, और various types of fabrics which date back to about 8000 bc have महरूम मिला in Swiss lake dwellings.
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in जॉर्जिया suggest the use of woven लिनेन fabrics इससे wild flax may date back even earlier to 36,000 BP.
Linen was sometimes used as currency in प्राचीन Egypt.
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen क्युकी it was seen as a symbol of light and पवित्रता, and as a display of wealth.
Some of these fabrics, woven from hand spun yarns, were very fine लिये उनके day, but are coarse compared to modern linen.
Today, linen is प्रायः an expensive textile, and is produced in अपेक्षाकृत small quantities.
It has a long `` staple '' ( individual fiber length ) relative to cotton and other natural fibers.
अनेक products are बना of लिनेन : aprons, बैग, towels ( swimmers, bath, बीच, body and wash towels ), napkins, bed linens, linen tablecloths, runners, कुर्सी covers, और मेन 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World कप, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय association football competition contested by the senior मेन 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship रै महरूम awarded every four सालो since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World युद्ध.
The current champions are Spain, जो won the 2010 tournament.
the current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of परिचय a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding three years, is used to determine which टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट together with the host nation ( s ).
the 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम won by eight different national teams.
Brazil have won पाँच टाइम्स, and they are the only team to have played in every टूर्नामेंट.
the other World Cup winners हैं Italy, with चार शीर्षक ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina और inaugural winners Uruguay, with दो titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title प्रत्येक.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup आयोजित in Germany.
The next three World cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
The is an expansion device for the Wii Remote वीडियो game नियंत्रक for the Wii that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion.
according to निन्टेंडो, the sensor in the device supplements the accelerometer and Sensor Bar capabilities of the वी Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time.
The Wii 's successor console, the Wii U, supports the Wii MotionPlus and इसके peripherals in games where उपयोग of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary.
Majulah Singapura ( Onward Singapore ) is the national गान of सिंगापुर.
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme सोंग लिये आधिकारिक functions of the City Council of Singapore, the सोंग was चयनित in 1959 as the island 's गान when it attained self-government.
Upon full independence in 1965, Majulah singapura was formally adopted as Singapore 's national anthem.
By law the anthem may only be sung साथ its original Malay गीत, हालांकि there exist authorized translations of the lyrics of the गान in Singapore 's three other official languages : English, Mandarin and Tamil.
Originally composed in the key of G major, in 2001 the national anthem was officially relaunched in the lower key of F major as इस थी said to allow लिये a `` grander और more inspiring arrangement ''.
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and हथियारबंद forces camps at ceremonies held at the शुरूआत and/or the end of each day, during which the national ध्वज is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken.
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to गाओ the national anthem on अवसरों of national जश्न or national significance such as at the नेशनल Day Parade, at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions और government departments, and at sporting events at जिससे Singapore teams are participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine, 1541.
Shipbuilding is the construction of ships and floating vessels.
It normally takes प्लेस in a specialized facility ज्ञात as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, also पुकारा shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation that traces its roots to before recorded history.
Shipbuilding and ship मरम्मत, both commercial and military, are referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
The निर्माण of boats is a similar कार्यकलाप पुकारा boat building.
The dismantling of ships is called ship breaking.
Wakonda is a कस्बा in Clay County, South Dakota, United States.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 321 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated places of the United States of America.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` शामिल a variety of designations, सहित city, town, village, borough, और municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also शामिल in the Census ब्यूरो 's listing of incorporated places.
संचित city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated places.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a भाग of another incorporated place.
Note कि this सूची refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their पारिभाषित limits, which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S. metropolitan क्षेत्रफल populations.
alt=larger flashcart, दिखाया with छोटी card और u.S. क्वार्टर लिये size
Nintendo DS storage devices are डिवाइस प्रयुक्त to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress बिंब, homebrew video games and डाउनलोड commercial games ( since the Nintendo DS is नहीं sold with a rewritable storage medium ).
Licensed डेवलपर, however, can use a ब्लू Intelligent प्रणालियों Nitro Emulator बक्सा to flash cards.
These devices are also ज्ञात as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There are two main classes of flashcarts : older devices which fit in Slot-2 ( the Game Boy अग्रिम Game Pak slot ) और newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card स्लॉट ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale ( inherited from their use with Game Boy Advance ), but require a booting tool in Slot-1 in order to उपयोग the touch screen and अन्य DS features.
Second-generation devices ( those which only उपयोग Slot-1 ) do नहीं work साथ gba homebrew, but became less महंगी and easier to use, rivaling many slot-2 डिवाइस in दाम.
First-generation devices शामिल GBA flash cartridges, GBAMP CF, SuperCard, and M3.
Second-generation devices include R4 क्रान्ति, CycloDS, G6 Real and DS-X.
The भंडार device either contains flash memory or a स्लॉट for a memory card to store homebrew.
Storage devices with a memory-card slot प्रायः have अधिक storage capacity than flash-memory devices.
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( Mb ), memory-card capacity is प्रायः measured in megabytes ( MB ) ( जहाँ 8 Mb is 1 mb ).
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; ds and Game लड़के Advance ROMs ; special features ( such as ability to play media files ) ; physical size and cost.
Strictly speaking, a storage device is not जरुरी for DS with flashme installed क्युकी homebrew can be sent to the ds using WMB.
However, इस is not an easily-portable method because the DS needs to be भीतर range of a suitable Wi-Fi card.
are American people of Japanese heritage.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the तीन largest Asian American communities, but in recent decades, it has become the sixth largest group at roughly 1,304,286, सहित those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
in the 2010 census, the largest Japanese American communities were मिला in California with 272,528, Hawaii with 185,502, नई York with 37,780, Washington with 35,008, and Illinois with 17,542.
Southern California रै the largest Japanese-American population in North America.
200px
This is a व्यापक listing which highlights significant achievements और माइलस्टोन based upon Billboard magazine 's singles चार्ट, most notably the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100.
This सूची spans from the issue dated January 1, 1955 to present.
The बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 began with the समस्या dated August 4, 1958, and is currently the मानक popular music chart in the United States.
Prior to the सृष्टि of the Hot 100, Billboard published four singles charts : `` Best Sellers in Stores '', `` Most निभाई by Jockeys '', `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The शीर्ष 100 ''.
These charts, जिससे ranged इससे 20 to 100 slots, यहूद phased out at different टाइम्स between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically not part of the hot 100 चार्ट history, their आंकड़ा is included for computational purposes, and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
सब items listed नीचे are from the Hot 100 era, unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ).
V is an American science fiction television series that ran for दो seasons on ABC, from November 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson, the नई series chronicles the arrival on Earth of a technologically advanced एलियन species जिससे ostensibly comes in peace, but actually has sinister motives.
V सितारों Morena Baccarin, Lourdes Benedicto, मॉरिस Chestnut, Joel Gretsch, Logan huffman, Charles Mesure, Elizabeth Mitchell, Laura Vandervoort and स्कॉट Wolf, and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum, यवेस Simoneau, Scott Peters, और Jace Hall.
The series was उत्पादित by The स्कॉट Peters Company, HDFilms and warner Bros. टेलीविज़न.
geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity, in which the participants use a Global Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver or mobile device और other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers, called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the संसार.
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook where the geocacher enters the date they found it और लक्षण it with उनके established code name.
After signing into the log, the संचय must be placed back exactly where the person found it.
Larger containers ऐसे as plastic storage containers ( tupperware or similar ) or ammunition boxes can also contain वस्तुएं लिये trading, usually toys or trinkets of little value.
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie bas Productions थी a हिप hop group that was originally composed of KRS-One, D-Nice, and dj स्कॉट La Rock.
DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on अगस्त 27, 1987, months बाद the release of BDP 's डेब्यू album, Criminal Minded.
The name of the समूह, Boogie Down, derives इससे a nickname for the South bronx section of the Bronx, one of the five boroughs of New York City.
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and हिप hop music और their debut LP Criminal minded contained frank descriptions of life in the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the stage for कया होता eventually become gangsta rap.
a municipal bond is a bond issued by a local government, or उनके agencies.
Potential issuers of municipal bonds शामिल states, cities, counties, redevelopment एजेंसियों, special-purpose districts, school districts, public utility districts, सरेआम owned airports and seaports, and any other सरकारी एंटिटी ( or समूह of governments ) at or below the state level.
Municipal bonds may be general दायित्वों of the issuer or secured by specified revenues.
In the United States, interest income प्राप्त by धारकों of नगरपालिका bonds is often exempt from the संघीय आय tax and इससे the आय tax of the state in which they are issued, हालांकि नगरपालिका bonds issued लिये निश्चित purposes may not be tax exempt.
Unlike new issue stocks that हैं brought to market with दाम restrictions until the deal is sold, municipal bonds हैं फ़्री to trade at any time once they हैं purchased by the investor.
Professional traders regularly trade and retrade the same bonds several times a सप्ताह.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a सोंग written by Steve Winwood, Spencer Davis and Muff winwood, and originally performed by The Spencer Davis Group.
The basic riff of the सोंग was borrowed from the Homer बैंको song `` ( ai n't That ) A लॉट of Love '', written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' पार्कर.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a UK # 2 in the पतझड़ of 1966 and a US # 7.
The song is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone magazine 's list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
The संस्करण issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is अलग इससे कि issued in the us on the United कलाकारों label, होने slower, and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single.
( The US संस्करण has more often महरूम used on reissue CDs, even those coming from Europe. )
The single features the sound of the Hammond b-3 अंग.
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of information related to films, टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम, and video games.
इस शामिल अभिनेताओं, production क्रू personnel, और fictional वर्ण featured in ये three visual entertainment media.
It is one of the most popular online entertainment गंतव्यों, with over 100 million unique users प्रत्येक month and a ठोस and rapidly growing mobile presence.
IMDb was launched on October 17, 1990, and in 1998 थी acquired by Amazon.com.
As of April 27, 2013, IMDb had 2,503,783 शीर्षक ( includes episodes ) और 5,192,493 personalities in its database, as खूब as 43 million registered users.
The website रै an Alexa रैंक of 48.
fibre Channel Host Bus एडाप्टर ( 64-bit PCI-X card )
SCSI Host बस Adapter ( 16-bit ISA कार्ड )
In computer hardware, a host controller, host adapter, or host bus adapter ( HBA ) connects a host system ( the computer ) to अन्य network और storage devices.
The शर्तें are primarily प्रयुक्त to refer to devices for connecting SCSI, Fibre Channel and eSATA devices.
However, devices for connecting to IDE, Ethernet, firewire, USB and other systems may also be called host adapters.
Recently, the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought about Ethernet HBAs, which हैं different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines.
There are also converged HBAs that support दोनो ईथरनेट और Fibre Channel called converged Network adapters ( CNAs ).
Cashmere Scarves
Modern मेन 's cashmere sweaters for sale.
Cashmere wool, usually simply known as cashmere, is a रेशा प्राप्त from cashmere goats and other प्रकार of बकरी.
The word cashmere derives from an old स्पेलिंग of Kashmir.
Cashmere is fine in texture, strong, light, and नरम.
Garments made from it provide excellent insulation.
In the United राज्य, under the U.S. Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, as amended, ( 15 Uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), states that a wool or वस्त्र product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such ऊन उत्पाद is the ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers उत्पादित by a cashmere goat ( capra hircus laniger ) ;
the औसत diameter of the fiber of such ऊन product करता not exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere fibers with औसत diameters that exceed 30 माइक्रोन.
The average fiber diameter may be subject to a coefficient of विभिन्नता around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the United States, with stores located throughout the Eastern seaboard, in the Midwest, on the West coast और in the Southwest.
The company was founded in 1975 और is based in Woodbury, New York.
On July 19, 2010, the company announced that it had filed for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
According to Furniture Today the company was number 48 among furniture retailers with US $ 114 million in sales for the साल समाप्ति August 29, 2009.
It subsequently emerged from Chapter 11 under the control of its major supplier, the Haining Mengnu समूह.
Egg roll is a term used for many अलग foods around the संसार.
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls हैं found in mainland चीन, many Chinese-speaking regions of एशिया, and Chinese immigrant समुदायों around the world.
Egg rolls as referred to in China.
In Guangdong and Hong Kong, egg roll usually refers to biscuit roll.
This is a type of biscuit.
The ingredient शामिल egg, flour and शुगर.
Egg फेंकें also is a dish in Canton और Hong Kong, इस is usually बना with vegetable.
भीतर China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast and are नहीं as commonly खपत in the north and पश्चिमी parts of China.
In American Chinese cuisine, an egg roll is a savory dish typically served as an appetizer.
It is usually stuffed with chicken, pork or shrimp, cabbage, carrots, tomatoes, bean sprouts and other सब्जियां, and then गहन fried.
इस variety of the egg roll is very common and popular, across भी regional varieties of अमरीकी Chinese food, और is often included as part of a `` combination platter ''.
In Montreal, Canada, open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese संलयन डिश.
They can be either kosher certified or merely kosher style.
Pain और suffering is the legal term for the physical and emotional stress caused from an injury ( see also pain and suffering ).
Some damages that might be under this category would be : aches, temporary and permanent limitations on activity, potential shortening of life, depression or scarring.
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury, it is common for someone to seek धन both in compensation for actual money कि is lost और for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury.
In a सूट, pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's अर्जी, or, alternatively, it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic क्षतिपूर्ति कि allows recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of चोट for which the plaintiff seeks redress.
Apart from money damages awarded in trial, money damages are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations, arbitration ( both of which may be court annexed or non litigated दावा ) as well as in routine बीमे settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by lawyers प्रायः present demands to insurers to settle for money.
ये माँग for bodily injury compensation monies often set out damages that are similarly प्रयुक्त in the अदालत litigated pleadings.
Demands हैं प्रायः written summaries of a claimant 's medical परवाह और the facts which resulted in the injury.
Sample of a Medallion signature guarantee stampIn
the United States and Canada, a medallion signature guarantee is a special हस्ताक्षर गारंटी for the transfer of securities.
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the signature is वास्तविक and the financial institution accepts liability for any forgery.
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing unauthorized transfers and possible निवेशकों नुकसान.
They also limit the देयता of the ट्रांसफ़र agent who स्वीकृत the certificates.
अलग संस्थानों have अलग policies as to what type of identification they require to provide the गारंटी and whether they charge a fee लिये such service ( usually nominal if any ).
Most institutions will not guarantee a signature of किसी who रै नहीं already been उनके customer.
A medallion signature guarantee is नहीं the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the sense that a `` हस्ताक्षर guarantee '' is a certification by the संस्था that the signature is authentic, and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting कि the signer signed a दस्तावेज़ voluntarily.
Some बैंको may no longer provide this service, however, many still do as well as अन्य financial institutions such as a Savings and लोन and क्रेडिट Unions.
At उनके sole discretion, these institutions may still decline to provide the Medallion Signature guarantees.
When US citizens हैं abroad, कुछ financial संस्थानों may accept United राज्य Embassy Seals, in place of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp.
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on Terminal Island, Los Angeles काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, March 1956
the General Motors स्ट्रीटकार conspiracy ( भी known as the ग्रेट American streetcar कांड ) refers to allegations and convictions in relation to a program by General मोटर्स ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric ट्रैन systems in अनेक American cities.
between 1936 and 1950, National City Lines and Pacific नगर Lines —with निवेश from GM, Firestone Tire, Standard Oil of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Phillips Petroleum, Mack Trucks, और the संघीय Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 इलेक्ट्रिक surface-traction systems in 45 cities including Baltimore, Newark, Los एंजिल्स, New York City, Oakland और San डिएगो and converted उन्हें into bus operation.
अनेक of the companies involved were convicted in 1949 of षड्यंत्र to monopolize interstate commerce लकिन were acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the स्वामित्व of these companies.
Some सुझाएँ that this program played a key भूमिका in the decline of पब्लिक transit in शहरों across the United States ; notably एडविन J. Quinby, who first खींचा attention to the program in 1946, and then Bradford C. Snell, an anti-trust attorney for the United States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a सीनेट पूछताछ brought the issue to नेशनल awareness.
दोनो Quinby और Snell argued that the deliberate destruction of streetcars was part of a larger strategy to push the United States into automobile dependency.
अन्य say that independent आर्थिक factors brought about changes in the पारगमन प्रणाली, including the Great Depression, the Public Utility Holding कम्पनी अधिनियम of 1935, मजदूर unrest, market शक्तियां, rapidly increasing traffic congestion, urban sprawl, taxation policies that favored private vehicle ownership, and general enthusiasm for the ऑटोमोबाइल.
One writer on the subject has suggested that snell और others गिरी into simplistic conspiracy theory thinking, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly, GM waged a war on electric कर्षण.
It थी indeed an all out assault, but by no means the single reason for the failure of rapid transit.
Also, it is just as clear that actions और inactions by government contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction. ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based शहरी हस्तांतरण प्रणालियों based on streetcars or trams, including न्यूर्क, Philadelphia, San फ्रांसिस्को, Pittsburgh, और Boston ; अन्य are re-introducing them.
The story रै been छान several times in print, film and अन्य media, notably in Who framed Roger खरगोश, Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia.
Corwin House, सलेम, Massachusetts, निर्मित ca. 1660, पहला Period English
अमरीकी colonial architecture includes several building design styles associated with the औपनिवेशिक period of the United States, including First Period English ( late-medieval ), French Colonial, Spanish Colonial, Dutch Colonial और Georgian.
ये styles are संबद्ध साथ the घरों, churches and government buildings of the period from about 1600 through the 19th century.
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit recorded by American bandleader Glenn Miller.
it topped the charts in 1940 in the U.S. and one year later was featured in the movie Sun घाटी serenade.
in 1999, National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn Miller रिकॉर्डिंग on RCA Bluebird on the NPR 100, the list of `` the 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century ''.
NEPTUNE logo
The NEPTUNE Canada प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory कि plugs सीधे into the Internet.
चूंकि December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while समंदर scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world.
Along with its sister project, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a unique दृष्टिकोण to समंदर science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their शोध, while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler.
A gramophone record, commonly ज्ञात as a phonograph record ( in American English ), विनाइल record ( in reference to विनाइल, the material most commonly used after about 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a record '', is an एनालॉग sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed, modulated spiral नाली.
The groove usually starts near the periphery and ends near the बीच of the disc.
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational गति at which they are played ( `` 33 rpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', इत्यादि. ), their समय capacity ( `` long playing '' ), their reproductive accuracy, or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '', `` Orthophonic '', `` full-range '', etc. ), और the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono ``, `` stereo ``, `` quadraphonic ``, इत्यादि. ).
Phonograph रिकॉर्ड were the प्राथमिक medium used लिये music reproduction लिये सबसे of the 20th century, replacing the phonograph cylinder, साथ which it था co-existed, by the 1920s.
by the late 1980s, digital media had gained a larger market share, and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991.
They continue to be manufactured and sold in the 21st century.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 million units shipped, the most in any year since 1998 and the format has continued to धीरे regain popularity.
They हैं especially प्रयुक्त by djs and audiophiles for many प्रकार of म्यूज़िक.
As of 2013, vinyl records continue to be used for distribution.
Grassland in the Santa Rosa Plateau, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Grassland in the antelope घाटी, California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the Flint Hills of northeastern Kansas.
A घासभूमि in the Philippines.
An Inner Mongolian grassland in the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is वर्चस्व by grasses ( Poaceae ), however sedge ( Cyperaceae ) and rush ( Juncaceae ) परिवारों can also be found.
Grasslands occur naturally on all महाद्वीपों except Antarctica.
In temperate latitudes, such as northwestern Europe and the Great Plains and California in उत्तर America, native grasslands are dominated by perennial bunch grass species, whereas in warmer climates annual species रूप a वृहद component of the vegetation.
Grasslands are found in most ecoregions of the Earth.
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ), which is one of आठ स्थलीय ecozones of the Earth 's surface.
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis, also called henna tree ) or Hina is a flowering plant, the sole प्रजाति in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
The English name `` henna '' comes from the Arabic ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ / pronounced ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The name is also used for dye preparations derived from the plant, and for the art of temporary tattooing आधारित on those dyes.
Henna has been used चूंकि antiquity to dye skin, hair, and fingernails, as खूब as fabrics including Silk, wool and leather.
Additionally, the name is misused for other skin and hair dyes, ऐसे as black henna or न्यूट्रल henna, which हैं not derived from the plant.
a thin फिल्मी is a परत of material ranging इससे fractions of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness.
Electronic semiconductor डिवाइस और optical coatings are the प्रमुख applications benefiting इससे thin-film construction.
A परिचित application of thin films is the household दर्पण, which typically रै a पतला मेटल coating on the वापस of a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface.
The प्रक्रम of silvering was once commonly प्रयुक्त to produce mirrors.
A very-thin-film coating ( less than a nanometer thick ) is used to produce two-way mirrors.
The performance of ऑप्टिकल coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or AR, coatings ) are typically enhanced when the thin-film कोटिंग consists of multiple layers having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic structure of alternating thin films of different materials may collectively form a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of quantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is being किया with ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for use as computer memory.
It is also being applied to pharmaceuticals, via thin-film drug डिलीवरी.
Thin-films हैं used to उपज thin-film batteries.
Thin films are also used in dye-sensitized सौर cells.
सिरेमिक thin films are in wide use.
The relatively high hardness और inertness of ceramic materials make this प्रकार of thin coating of interest for protection of substrate सामग्री against corrosion, oxidation and wear.
In particular, the use of such coatings on cutting tools can extend the life of these items by several आदेश of परिमाण.
Research is being done on a new class of thin-film inorganic ऑक्साइड materials, पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides, जिससे could be used to मेक transparent transistors that हैं inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
Gears of युद्ध is a military science fiction third-person shooter वीडियो game developed by Epic खेल और published by Microsoft खेल studios.
it was initially released as an exclusive शीर्षक for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in उत्तर अमेरिका, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, and most of यूरोपीय and included a `` सीमित Collector 's Edition '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed सौंदर्य that विस्तृत much of the game 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People can Fly and released a year बाद, featuring new content including additional campaign स्तर, a new एकाधिक game mode, and Games लिये Windows Live कार्यक्षमता.
The game focuses on the troops of डेल्टा Squad as वे wield a हताश, last-ditch attempt to save the बाकी human inhabitants of the fictional ग्रह sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the टिड्डी Horde.
The player assumes the role of Marcus Fenix ( but can also खेल as Dominic Santiago ), a former कैदी and war-hardened soldier.
the game is based on the use of कवर and strategic fire for the player to अग्रिम through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist.
the खेल also features several online एकाधिक game modes for up to eight players.
गियर्स of War बेची over three million copies in just ten सप्ताह and was the fastest-selling वीडियो खेल of 2005 as खूब as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during.
It currently stands as the 5th best selling Xbox 360 खेल of all time.
The game रै चूंकि sold over पाँच million copies by सितंबर 2008.
the game was well received by आलोचकों, जो praised its gameplay and विस्तृत visuals, and it won several `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006.
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of युद्ध मताधिकार, including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and its follow-up, Gears of युद्ध 3, which was released on September 20, 2011, after having initially been set to have महरूम released on April 5, 2011, the date upon which एपिक खेल ' Cliff Bleszinski was a अतिथि on लेट Night साथ Jimmy Fallon.
adaptations to books, कॉमिक्स, as well as a feature फिल्मी are to be expected.
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 novel written by Betty Smith.
The स्टोरी focuses on an Irish-American family in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York नगर.
The novel is set in the पहला and second decades of the 20th century.
The book was an immense success.
The main metaphor of the किताब is the hardy Tree of Heaven, native to China and ताईवान, now considered invasive, and common in the vacant lots of New York नगर.
World मैप with the intertropical zone highlighted in red.
तीव्र जलवायु zones of the Earth where all twelve months have mean temperatures ऊपर 18 °C ( 64 °f ).
The tropics is a region of the धरती surrounding the equator.
it is limited in latitude by the tropic of Cancer in the northern गोलार्ध at approximately N and the tropic of Capricorn in the southern गोलार्ध at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth.
The tropics are also referred to as the tropical मण्डल and the torrid zone ( see geographical zone ).
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth where the Sun reaches a point directly overhead at least once दौरान the solar year.
the tropics हैं distinguished इससे the other climatic and biomatic regions of धरती, the middle latitudes and the polar regions on either पक्ष of the equatorial zone.
For the INXS song, see What तुम Need ( song ).
`` What You Need '' is an episode of the American television anthology श्रेणी the Twilight Zone.
It is based on the short story of the वही नाम by Lewis padgett ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the Cleveland थिएटर District in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, is the second-largest theater जटिल in the संयुक्त राज्य, second only to New यॉर्क City 's Lincoln Center ).
constructed in a span of 19 months in the जल्दी 1920s, the थिएटर were subsequently बंद down, but were revived through a grassroots प्रयत्न.
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era of शहर revitalization in क्लीवलैंड, and was called `` one of the top ten successes in Cleveland history. ''
The driver and यात्री front airbags, after having been deployed, in a British Peugeot 306 car.
An airbag is a vehicle safety device.
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of a flexible fabric envelope or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision.
Its purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide protection to उनके bodies जब वे strike interior वस्तुएँ such as the steering wheel or a window.
Modern vehicles may contain multiple एयरबैग modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions, and सेंसर may deploy one or more airbags in an प्रभाव मण्डल at variable rates आधारित on the type, angle और गंभीरता of impact ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to कठोर frontal crashes.
Airbags are normally designed साथ the intention of supplementing the सुरक्षा of an occupant जो is correctly restrained साथ a seatbelt.
Most designs are inflated through pyrotechnic means and can only be operated once.
Newer side-impact airbag modules consist of संपीडित air सिलेंडर that हैं triggered in the इवेंट of a पक्ष impact गाडी impact.
The first commercial designs यहूद introduced in passenger ऑटोमोबाइल during the 1970s with limited success.
व्यापक commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many बाज़ार during the late 1980s and जल्दी 1990s with a ड्राइवर airbag, and a front passenger airbag as well on some गाड़ियाँ ; and many आधुनिक vehicles अभी include four or more units.
IRS tax forms are प्रयुक्त for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to report वित्तीय information to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the United States.
They are used to report income, calculate taxes to be सशुल्क to the federal government of the United States, and disclose अन्य information as required by the आतंरिक Revenue Code ( IRC ).
There are over 800 various forms और schedules.
the best-known of these is रूप 1040 used by individuals.
In the United States, driver 's licenses are issued by each individual state ( including Washington, D.C. and territories ), rather than the federal सरकारी because of the political concept of federalism.
Drivers are normally required to obtain a license इससे their state of residence and all states recognize each other 's licenses for अस्थाई विज़िटर subject to normal age requirements.
A state may also suspend an individual 's driving विशेषाधिकार within its borders for traffic violations.
Many states share a common system of license classes, with some exceptions, and commercial license classes are standardized by federal विनियमन at 49 CFR part 383.
China has महरूम the source of अनेक inventions, including the Four Great आविष्कारों : papermaking, the कम्पास, gunpowder, और printing ( both woodblock and movable type ).
The list नीचे contains these and other inventions.
the Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, and mathematics applied to horology, metallurgy, astronomy, कृषि, engineering, music theory, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
By the Warring States काल ( 403–221 BC ), they had advanced metallurgic प्रौद्योगिकी, including the blast furnace और cupola भट्टी, while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – ad 220 ).
A sophisticated economic system in चीन gave birth to inventions such as पेपर money during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ).
the आविष्कार of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the आग lance, land mine, naval mine, हाथ cannon, exploding गोलों, multistage rocket, and rocket बम with aerodynamic wings और explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass and ability to steer at high sea with the 1st-century sternpost rudder, premodern Chinese sailors sailed as दूर as ईस्ट Africa and Egypt.
In water-powered clockworks, the premodern Chinese था used the escapement mechanism since the 8th century and the अंतहीन power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th सदी.
They also made विशाल mechanical puppet theaters चलित by waterwheels and carriage wheels और wine-serving automatons चलित by paddle wheel boats.
The contemporaneous Peiligang and pengtoushan संस्कृतियों represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of China and were formed around 7000 bc.
Some of the पहला आविष्कारों of Neolithic, prehistoric China include semilunar and आयताकार stone knives, stone hoes and spades, the cultivation of millet, rice and the soybean, the refinement of sericulture, the building of rammed earth structures साथ लाइम -plastered house floors, the creation of the potter 's wheel, the creation of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs, the creation of pottery tripods और pottery steamers, and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination.
Francesca ब्रे argues कि the domestication of the ox and buffalo दौरान the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c. 2000 BC ) period, the अनुपस्थिति of Longshan-era सिंचाई or high-yield फसलों, full evidence of Longshan cultivation of dry-land cereal फसलों which gave ऊँची yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated, '' suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture काल and explains the high agricultural production yields which अनुमत the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang राजवंश ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
With बाद inventions such as the multiple-tube seed drill and heavy moldboard iron plow, China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger जनसांख्यिकी.
लिये the purposes of this list, inventions are regarded as technological firsts विकसित in China, and as such करता not include विदेशी technologies which the Chinese acquired through contact, such as the पवनचक्की from the Middle East or the telescope from जल्दी modern Europe.
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere और बाद invented separately by the चाइनीज, such as the odometer and chain pump.
Scientific, mathematic or natural discoveries, परिवर्तन in minor concepts of design or style and artistic innovations can not be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the list.
Gross domestic उत्पाद in 2011 US dollars per capita, adjusted लिये महंगाई and purchasing power parity ( log scale ) इससे 1860 to 2011, with population ( disk area ) लिये the US ( पीला ), uk ( नारंगी ), Japan ( red ), China ( red ), and India ( ब्लू ).
वैश्वीकरण ( or globalisation—see spelling differences ) is the प्रक्रम of international integration arising from the interchange of world दृश्य, products, विचार, and अन्य aspects of culture.
put in simple terms, globalization refers to processes that promote world-wide exchanges of national and cultural resources.
Advances in परिवहन and telecommunications अवसंरचना, including the वृद्धि of the Internet, are major factors in globalization, generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities.
हालांकि several scholars प्लेस the origins of globalization in modern times, others trace its history long before the European age of discovery and voyages to the New संसार.
Some even trace the origins to the तीसरा मिलेनियम BCE.
Since the beginning of the 20th century, the pace of globalization has intensified at a रैपिड rate, especially during the Post Cold War era.
The term globalization has महरूम in increasing use चूंकि the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s.
in 2000, the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade and transactions, capital and investment movements, माइग्रेशन and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge.
further, environmental चुनौतियां ऐसे as climate change, cross-boundary water and air pollution, and over-fishing of the ocean are linked with globalization.
Globalizing processes affect and are प्रभावित by business and work organization, economics, socio-cultural resources, and the natural environment.
The replacements is a 2000 अमरीकी खेल comedy film directed by Howard Deutch.
It stars Keanu रीव्स, Gene Hackman, and Brooke Langton.
An अमरीकी Airlines aircraft takes off from Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.
This airport is the एयरलाइन 's largest hub.
अमरीकी Airlines flies to 79 domestic destinations and 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय destinations in 48 countries.
( as of December 2012 )
the list includes the city, country, the codes of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Air Transport संघ ( IATA विमानक्षेत्र कोड ) and the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Civil विमानन Organization ( ICAO विमानक्षेत्र code ), और the airport 's name, with the airline 's hubs, focus cities and seasonal destinations marked.
the list भी contains destinations no longer served by the airline, जिससे are marked as terminated destinations.
it does not include destinations served for American Airlines by its regional affiliates American Eagle Airlines, Executive Airlines, and americanconnection.
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional jamaican mento folk song, the best-known संस्करण of जिससे was sung by Harry Belafonte and an alternate version interspersed with another jamaican folksong, Hill और Gully सवार, by Dame Shirley Bassey.
Despite the सोंग 's mento influences, `` Day-O ( The Banana नाव Song ) '' is widely known as an उदाहरण of calypso music.
It is a work सोंग, from the point of view of dock workers working the night shift loading bananas onto ships.
Daylight has come, the shift is over and they want उनके work to be counted up so कि they can go home.
World War i ( WWI ) थी a global war centred in Europe कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly पुकारा the World युद्ध or the ग्रेट War इससे its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or संसार War I thereafter.
It शामिल all the संसार 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, फ़्रांस and रूस ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary और Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive विरूद्ध the agreement, इटली did not डालें into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as अधिक nations entered the war : इटली, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman साम्राज्य and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
ultimately, more than 70 million सैन्य personnel, सहित 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely क्युकी of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or गतिशीलता.
it was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world इतिहास, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations शामिल.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the war थी the resurgence of imperialism in the विदेशी policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला decades were invoked.
भीतर weeks, the major powers यहूद at war और, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 जुलाई, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as तैयारी for the आक्रमण of Serbia.
While the russians mobilised, the germans invaded neutral Belgium and ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's declaration of war विरूद्ध Germany.
बाद the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench लकीर that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern सामने, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, लकिन was stopped in इसके invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
in Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 जर्मनी offensive along the पश्चिमी front, the Allies drove वापस the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble साथ revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic संसाधन to fight a कुल war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to मौजूद.
The successor states of the former two खोया a great amount of territory, जबकि the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल Europe was redrawn into अनेक smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism शाखित by the war and the ब्रेकअप of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are सहमत to be कारकों contributing to World War ii.
Nurse जैकी is an American series that premiered on June 8, 2009, on Showtime, फिल्म Central and The Movie Network.
The श्रेणी सितारों edie Falco as the title अक्षर Jackie Peyton, an आपात विभाग nurse at सब संतो ' Hospital in नई York City.
For जैकी, `` Every day is a high wire act of juggling patients, doctors, fellow नर्स and उसके own indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often referred to simply as The Kardashians ) is an American reality television series कि premiered on October 14, 2007, on E !.
It follows the lives of the Kardashian/Jenner family, including sisters Kourtney, Kim, and Khloé कार्दशियन.
The श्रेणी ' success has led to the spin-offs Kourtney and Kim लो New York, Khloé & Lamar, Kourtney और Khloé Take Miami, and Kourtney और Kim Take Miami.
अफगानिस्तान ( ; ; ), officially the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming part of South एशिया, Central Asia, and to some extent Western Asia.
It has a population of around 30 million inhabiting an area of approximately, बनाना it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest स्वदेश in the world.
it is bordered by Pakistan in the south and the east, Iran in the west, तुर्कमेनिस्तान, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north, और China in the far northeast.
Afghanistan has been an ancient focal point of the Silk Road and human migration.
Archaeologists have found प्रमाण of human habitation from as far back as the मध्य Paleolithic.
Urban सभ्यता may have begun in the area as early as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle East संस्कृति with सेंट्रल Asia and the भारतीय subcontinent, the land has been घर to various peoples through the ages and witnessed many military अभियान, notably by Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan, and in modern era Western forces.
The land भी परोसा as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians, Kushans, Hephthalites, Saffarids, ghaznavids, Ghorids, Khiljis, Timurids, Mughals, Durranis, और others have risen to रूप प्रमुख empires.
The political history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in 1709, जब the hotaki dynasty थी established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad Shah Durrani 's rise to शक्ति in 1747.
In the late 19th century, Afghanistan became a buffer state in the `` ग्रेट Game `` between the British and Russian empires.
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War, King Amanullah began a European style modernization of the country लकिन was stopped by the ultra-conservatives.
During the ठंडा War, after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring इण्डिया in 1947, the United States and the Soviet Union began spreading influences in Afghanistan, जिससे led to a bloody war between the US-backed mujahideen forces and the Soviet-backed Afghan सरकारी in which over a million Afghans lost their lives.
This थी followed by the 1990s civil war, the rise और fall of the extremist Taliban government और the 2001–present war.
In December 2001, the संयुक्त Nations Security परिषद authorized the creation of the International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain security in Afghanistan and assist the Karzai administration.
Three decades of war made अफगानिस्तान one of the world 's most dangerous countries, including the largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers.
While the international जातियाँ is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan, terrorist groups such as the Haqqani Network और Hezbi Islami are actively involved in a देशभर Taliban -led insurgency, which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks.
According to the संयुक्त Nations, the insurgents were responsible for 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012.
The अमरीकी सिविल War ( acw ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil युद्ध ( see नामकरण ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) और अनेक Southern slave राज्य that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
The war था its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody कॉम्बैट that left over 600,000 soldiers dead और destroyed much of the दक्षिण 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, और the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed slaves began.
in the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James बुकानन and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural address declared his प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
आठ remaining slave राज्य continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous federal forts भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A सलाम Conference failed to find a सुलह, and दोनो sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed कि European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` कि they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a कुंजी fort आयोजित by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called लिये each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, four more स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states और established a नवल blockade कि crippled the southern economy.
the Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union राज्य ) ended साथ Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln जारी the Emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war लक्ष्य.
To the वेस्ट, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate नदी नेवी, then much of their western armies, and the संघ at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in दो at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, विलियम T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure साथ the way.
the संघ marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox अदालत House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War थी एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
it remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death टोल at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern श्वेत males aged 18–40.
Cost of goods sold ( COGS ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a business has sold दौरान a particular period.
लागत हैं associated साथ particular goods using one of अनेक formulas, including specific identification, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or औसत cost.
Costs include all costs of purchase, costs of conversion और other लागत incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location और condition.
लागत of goods बना by the business include material, labor, और allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods not yet बेची are deferred as लागत of inventory until the inventory is sold or written bas in value.
Freak Lunchbox candy स्टोर in Halifax, नोवा Scotia
A confectionery store ( more commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom, a candy store in the North America, or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery और is प्रायः targeted to children.
Most confectionery stores are भर with an assortment of sweets far larger than a grocer or convenience store could accommodate.
They प्रायः offer a selection of old fashioned treats, and sweets इससे different countries.
Very often unchanged in layout since उनके inception, confectioneries are known for their वार्मिंग and nostalgic feel.
The village of Pateley Bridge claims to have the oldest confectionery store in England.
The oldest sweet shop in England, in the village of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state स्तिथ in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United राज्य.
The state 's name is derived from the choctaw words okla and humma, meaning `` रेड people '', and it is known informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and भारतीय territory on November 16, 1907, Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', and इसके capital and largest नगर is Oklahoma City.
A प्रमुख producer of प्राकृतिक गैस, oil, and agriculture, ओक्लाहोमा relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, दूरसंचार, and biotechnology.
It has one of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the nation, ranking among the top states in per capita आय growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma नगर और तुलसा serve as Oklahoma 's प्राथमिक economic anchors, with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and eastern वनों, most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains and the U.S. आंतरिक Highlands —a प्रदेश especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, स्कॉटिश, आयरिश and Native American ancestry, more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma, second only to कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three प्रमुख American सांस्कृतिक regions और historically served as a route for cattle drives, a destination for दक्षिणी settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory लिये देशी Americans.
Stacked and खड़ा car tires
a tire ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped covering that fits around a wheel 's rim to protect it and enable better vehicle performance.
Most tires, such as those for ऑटोमोबाइल and साइकिल, provide traction between the vehicle and the road जबकि providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock.
the materials of modern pneumatic टायर are synthetic rubber, natural rubber, fabric and तार, along with carbon black और other chemical compounds.
वे consist of a tread and a body.
the tread provides traction while the body provides containment लिये a मात्रा of compressed air.
Before rubber थी developed, the पहला संस्करण of टायर were simply bands of metal that fitted around wooden पहियों to prevent wear and tear.
Early रबर tires were solid ( not pneumatic ).
Today, the majority of tires are न्यूमेटिक inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped body of रस्सियाँ और wires encased in रबर and generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion.
न्यूमेटिक tires हैं used on अनेक types of vehicles, including गाड़ियाँ, bicycles, motorcycles, trucks, earthmovers, और aircraft.
Metal tires are still used on इंजनों and railcars, and solid rubber ( or other polymer ) टायर are still used in विभिन्न non-automotive applications, such as some casters, carts, lawnmowers, and wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph वारेन ( जून 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) थी an American doctor who played a leading भूमिका in American patriot organizations in बोस्टन in early days of the American Revolution, आखिरकार serving as अध्यक्ष of the revolutionary मैसाचुसेट्स Provincial Congress.
वारेन enlisted पॉल Revere and William Dawes on April 18, 1775, to leave Boston and स्प्रेड the सचेतक that the British garrison in Boston was setting आउट to raid the town of concord and arrest विद्रोही नेताओ John Hancock and Samuel एडम्स.
Warren participated in the next day 's लड़ाइयों of lexington and Concord, which are commonly considered to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary युद्ध.
Warren था been commissioned a Major General in the colony 's militia shortly before the June 17, 1775 बैटल of Bunker Hill.
Rather than exercising his रैंक, Warren served in the battle as a private सिपाही, and was killed in combat जब British troops stormed the redoubt atop नस्ल 's हिल.
His death, immortalized in John Trumbull 's painting, The मौत of सामान्य Warren at the Battle of Bunker 's Hill, जून 17, 1775, galvanized the rebel forces, and he has been memorialized in अनेक place names in the United States.
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular जंजीरों of the organic सेमीकंडक्टर Quinacridone on Graphite.
an organic semiconductor is an organic material with सेमीकंडक्टर properties, that is, साथ an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals.
Single molecules, छोटी कड़ी ( oligomers ) और organic polymers can be semiconductive.
Semiconducting small अणुओं ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) शामिल the polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene, anthracene, and rubrene.
Polymeric organic semiconductors include बहु ( 3-hexylthiophene ), poly ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
There हैं two प्रमुख अतिव्यापी वर्ग of सशुल्क semiconductors.
These are organic charge-transfer complexes and various linear-backbone conductive polymers निकला from polyacetylene.
Linear रीढ़ organic semiconductors include polyacetylene itself और its derivatives polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
At least locally, charge-transfer देवालय often exhibit similar conduction mechanisms to inorganic semiconductors.
Such mechanisms arise इससे the presence of hole और electron conduction layers separated by a बैंड gap.
While such classic mechanisms हैं महत्वपूर्ण locally, as with inorganic amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, localized states, mobility gaps, and phonon -assisted hopping भी significantly contribute to conduction, विशेषकर in polyacetylenes.
Like inorganic semiconductors, organic semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) और are also ज्ञात as organic metals.
ठेठ वर्तमान carriers in organic semiconductors are holes and electrons in π-bonds.
Almost all organic solids are insulators.
But जब their constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems, electrons can मूव via π-electron बादल overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling और related mechanisms.
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt crystals are examples of this प्रकार of organic semiconductor.
Mainly due to low गतिशीलता, even unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes.
Such unpaired electrons can function as current carriers.
This type of semiconductor is also obtained by pairing an electron donor molecule with an electron acceptor अणु.
मादा ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by इंसान महिलाओं from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are माना to be different phenomena in कुछ research publications.
The exact source and nature of the द्रव continue to be a topic of debate among medical पेशेवर, which is भी related to doubts over the existence of the g-spot.
the FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international संघ football competition contested by the senior women 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four सालो since the inaugural tournament in 1991.
Japan won the 2011 tournament in a penalty shootout.
The वर्तमान format of the tournament involves 16 teams competing लिये the title at venues within the मेजबान nation ( s ) over a period of about three weeks ; – this phase is often called the World कप Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the टूर्नामेंट together with the host nation ( s ).
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International competition in महिलाओं 's फ़ुटबॉल and is played amongst women 's नेशनल football teams of the member राज्य of FIFA, the sport 's global शासी body.
The first Women 's World Cup टूर्नामेंट, named the महिलाओं 's World Championship, was held in 1991, sixty-one सालो after the men 's first FIFA संसार कप tournament in 1930.
The six संसार Cup tournaments have been won by four different national teams.
The next World Cup will be hosted by कनाडा in 2015.
scorpions is a young adult अनोखा written by Walter Dean Myers, first published in the संयुक्त States by Harper & Row on जून 20, 1988.
Front page of a 17th सदी Hebrew Bible by Joseph Athias, now at बेथ Hatefutsoth, इसराईल
'son of man ' is the translation of various यहूदी and Greek phrases used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament.
It रै विविध meanings, ranging from a normal human being to a prophesied eternal, दैवी ruler.
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears एक hundred and seven times in the यहूदी Bible.
This is the most आम Hebrew construction for the singular but is used mostly in Ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere.
in thirty two cases the phrase appears in intermediate plural form `` sons of men '', i.e. human beings.
As generally interpreted by Jews, it denotes humankind generally.
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament, `` the son of man '' is invariably used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article.
The use of the definite article in `` the son of man '' in the Christian gospels is novel, and before its use there, no रिकॉर्ड of its use in any of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity मौजूद.
Geza Vermes has stated कि `` the Son of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages.
in ईसाई उपयोग, unlike the Son of God title, which रै महरूम an essential element of ईसाई creeds चूंकि the Apostolic age, the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity.
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the New Testament has remained challenging and after 150 years of debate no consensus on the समस्या has उभरा among विद्वानों.
Master of foxhounds लीड the field from powderham Castle in Devon, England, with the hounds in front.
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking, chase, and sometimes killing of a fox, traditionally a red फॉक्स, by trained foxhounds or other सैंट hounds, and a समूह of निहत्थे followers led by a master of foxhounds, who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
Fox शिकार originated in the form practised until recently in the United किंगडम in the 16th century, but is practised सब over the world, including in Australia, Canada, France, आयरलैंड, Italy और the United States.
In Australia, the term भी refers to the hunting of foxes with firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting.
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to सुनाना to any खेल animals or weapons ( e.g., deer hunting with bow and arrow ) ; in Britain and Ireland, `` शिकार '' without qualification implies फॉक्स शिकार ( or other forms of hunting with hounds- beagling, stag hunting, mink hunting, drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described यहाँ.
The खेल is controversial, particularly in the uk, where it was banned in Scotland in 2002, and in England और Wales in November 2004 ( law enforced इससे फ़रवरी 2005 ), हालांकि shooting foxes as vermin remained legal.
proponents of fox hunting दृश्य it as an important part of ग्रामीण culture and useful for reasons of conservation और pest control, while प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue that it is cruel and unnecessary.
Tobacco advertising is the advertising of tobacco products or use ( typically cigarette smoking ) by the tobacco industry through a variety of media including sponsorship, particularly of sporting events.
it is now one of the most highly regulated फ़ॉर्म of marketing.
Some or all forms of tobacco advertising are banned in many countries.
बल्ली technologies, Inc. is a manufacturer of slot machines and other gaming प्रौद्योगिकी based in लास Vegas, Nevada.
the company थी संस्थापित in 1968 as उन्नत Patent Technology.
It आखिरकार changed its name to Alliance Gaming and acquired, in 1996, Bally गेमिंग International, a पूर्व division of Bally Manufacturing.
In 2006, the entire company अपनाया the बल्ली name, a trademark that originated in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation.
gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; here, दांते is खोया in canto 1 of the Inferno.
Inferno ( इतालवी लिये `` नरक `` ) is the first part of दांते Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine कॉमेडी.
It is followed by Purgatorio and paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through Hell, guided by the Roman poet Virgil.
in the poem, Hell is चित्रित as nine circles of suffering located within the Earth.
Allegorically, the Divine Comedy represents the journey of the soul towards God, with the Inferno describing the recognition and अस्वीकृति of sin.
Smirnoff is a ब्रांड of vodka owned and produced by the British company diageo.
the Smirnoff brand began with a वोदका डिस्टिलरी founded in Moscow by Pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
It is अभी distributed in 130 countries.
It is produced in several countries including India, Ireland, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Smirnoff products शामिल vodka, flavoured vodka, and malt पेय.
In March 2006, diageo North America claimed that Smirnoff वोदका was the best-selling आसुत spirit brand in the world.
Big Brown ( foaled April 10, 2005 in केंटकी ) is a retired champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness stakes.
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's Monticule Farms in Lexington, Kentucky, he won his first five race starts.
He was sired by Grade III winner Boundary, a बेटे of North American Champion sire Danzig, a son of Northern नर्तकी.
Big Brown 's dam थी Mien, also a granddaughter of Northern नर्तकी through her sire, Nureyev.
The Serenity दुआ is the common name for an originally untitled दुआ by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been adopted by alcoholics Anonymous and अन्य twelve-step programs.
The best-known रूप is : परमेश्वर, grant me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
the courage to change the things I can,
And wisdom to know the difference.
The घोषणा and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial Rights, or the Declaration of Rights ), थी a statement adopted by the First Continental कॉंग्रेस on October 14, 1774, in response to the असहनीय Acts passed by the British पार्लियामेंट.
the Declaration outlined colonial objections to the असहनीय Acts, सूचीबद्ध a colonial bill of rights, and provided a विस्तृत list of grievances.
It was similar to the Declaration of Rights and Grievances, passed by the Stamp अधिनियम Congress a decade पहले.
the Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans : to डालें into a boycott of British trade ( the Continental Association ) until उनके grievances were redressed, to publish पता to the people of ग्रेट Britain and British अमेरिका, and to send a petition to the किंग.
Pulse pressure is the pressure that is लगा when feeling the pulse.
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), the pressure अंतर between the systolic and diastolic pressures is the pressure change to create the pulse, which is the pulse pressure.
If resting रक्त pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of mercury ( mmhg ), pulse दबाव is 40.
The पहाड़ियाँ is a reality television श्रेणी which originally aired on एमटीवी from May 31, 2006 until July 13, 2010.
The show uses a reality television format, following the personal lives of several यंग वयस्कों living in Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, but tends towards a narrative format अधिक commonly found in scripted genres such as साबुन operas.
the श्रेणी originally followed the निजी life of former Laguna Beach star Lauren कोनराड and her friends ' new lives in Los एंजिल्स.
After five seasons, Conrad left the series and थी replaced by another former Laguna Beach star, Kristin Cavallari, beginning in the दूसरी half of the fifth ऋतु.
The series concluded at the end of the sixth season.
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on their list of `` the 100 Best Shows of the Last 25 Years, '' stating कि the series was a `` New Classic. ''
AOL tv पुकारा it TV 's biggest Guilty Pleasure.
the series premiered in syndication in the fall of 2009 alongside Laguna Beach : The Real Orange County.
In poker, bad ताल is a subjective term for a hand in which a player with कया appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses.
It most often occurs where एक खिलाड़ी bets the clearly stronger hand and their opponent makes a ग़रीब call that eventually `` hits '' and wins.
There is no consensus among पोकर खिलाड़ी as to what exactly constitutes a bad ताल and often players will disagree परिचय whether a particular hand was a bad beat.
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family Cyprinidae of अनुक्रम Cypriniformes.
It was one of the earliest fish to be domesticated, और is one of the most commonly kept aquarium मछली.
a relatively small member of the carp family ( which also includes the koi carp और the crucian कार्प ), the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east एशिया.
It थी first domesticated in चीन more than a thousand years ago, और several distinct breeds have since महरूम developed.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in आकार, body आकार, जोडे configuration and coloration ( various combinations of श्वेत, yellow, नारंगी, red, brown, and black are known ).
uncooked Rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade usually consisting of bacon, onions, mustard and pickles wrapped in thinly sliced beef जिससे is then cooked.
In कुछ countries, the roulade is भी known as `` beef olive ''.
Beef or वील is used as meat हालांकि some food scholars tend to believe that the original version was probably venison or pork, and pork is still popular in some areas.
The beef rouladen as we जान them today have become popular over the last century.
The cut is प्रायः topside beef or silverside since this is the cheaper cut.
The अधिक expensive संस्करण would be the round steak, also known as rump स्टीक.
the meat is cut into large, पतला slices.
The filling is a मिश्रण of smoked and cooked pork belly, chopped onions और chopped pickles ( gurken ) which is at times varied by adding minced मांस, sausage meat, पाइन nuts and mustard.
the mixture varies from प्रदेश to region.
Rouladen are traditionally served for dinner.
रेड wine is often served with this dish.
ठेठ eukaryotic cell.
Cellular respiration is the नियत of the metabolic reactions and processes कि लो place in the cells of जीवों to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ, जिससे ब्रेक large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी redox प्रतिक्रिया.
The overall प्रतिक्रिया is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the body, most of which are रेडॉक्स reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular श्वसन is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a जीना cell.
This difference is because it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall प्रतिक्रिया is a combustion reaction, no single reaction कि comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include शुगर, amino acids and fatty acids, और a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular ऑक्सीजन ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third फास्फेट समूह is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, सहित biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of अणुओं across cell membranes.
Countries by 2011 GDP ( नाममात्र ) according to the CIA World Factbook.
This article includes a सूची of countries in the संसार sorted by their gross domestic product ( GDP ), the मार्केट value of all final goods और services from a nation in a दिए साल.
The जीडीपी डालर estimates presented यहाँ are calculated at market or government official exchange rates.
Several economies जिससे हैं not considered to be countries ( world, the EU, and कुछ dependent territories ) are शामिल in the lists because they appear in the sources.
These economies are not ranked in the charts here, but are listed where applicable.
The figures presented here do not लो into account differences in the cost of living in different countries, and the results can vary greatly from one year to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency.
ऐसे fluctuations may बदलें a country 's ranking from एक year to the अगला, even though they often make little or no difference to the standard of जीना of its population.
Therefore these आंकड़े should be used with caution.
Some countries/regions may have citizens which are on average wealthy.
These countries/regions could appear in this सूची as having a small GDP.
This would be because the country/region listed has a small population, and therefore छोटी total economy ; the GDP is calculated as the population times the wealth per capita.
Comparisons of national wealth are also frequently made on the basis of खरीदना power parity ( PPP ), to adjust for differences in the cost of living in different countries.
( देखिए List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem, but रै its अपना drawbacks ; it does नहीं reflect the value of economic output in international trade, and it also requires more estimation than nominal GDP.
On the whole, PPP per capita figures are more narrowly spread than nominal GDP प्रति capita figures.
The first list includes data compiled by the United Nations Statistics Division for 2011.
The second list largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the International Monetary Fund for 2012.
the तीसरा list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates, and the fourth list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook.
Lapping is a machining process, in which two surfaces are rubbed together with an abrasive between them, by hand movement or by way of a machine.
This can take दो forms.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ), typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( also ज्ञात as the `` गोद '' or grinding tool ) with an abrasive ऐसे as aluminum oxide, jeweller 's rouge, optician 's रूज, emery, silicon कार्बाइड, diamond, etc., in between them.
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the abrasive rolls about between the two surfaces और removes material from both.
The other form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch or a ceramic for the lap, which is `` charged '' with the abrasive.
The lap is then used to काटें a harder material—the workpiece.
The abrasive embeds within the softer सामग्री which holds it and permits it to score across and cut the harder material.
लिया to a finer limit, this होगा produce a polished surface ऐसे as with a polishing cloth on an automobile, or a पॉलिशिंग cloth or पॉलिशिंग pitch upon glass or स्टील.
Taken to the परम limit, साथ the aid of accurate interferometry and specialized polishing machines or skilled hand polishing, lensmakers can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers.
This is one twentieth of the wavelength of light from the commonly used 632.8 nm हीलियम नियॉन laser light source.
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing उन्हें together under the right conditions.
( This is नहीं the same as the wringing effect of Johansson blocks, although it is similar ).
The पद `` अमेरिका 's टोली '' is a popular nickname in the संयुक्त States that refers to the Dallas Cowboys in the नेशनल Football League.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film, जहाँ the narrator opens with the following परिचय : the term is recognized और often used by media आउटलेट, including ईएसपीएन, Yahoo !, एचबीओ Sports, and खेल Illustrated.
my दाई 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 Canadian television series, based on the television film of the same name.
In Canada, the series premiered in French on Télétoon on February 28, 2011, in English on Teletoon on March 14, 2011, and on Disney Channel in the संयुक्त राज्य on June 27, 2011.
The show थी created by Fresh TV, creators of 6teen and Total Drama.
The show फ़ॉलो Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ), जो, in the television फिल्मी, learns that उसके दाई Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a पिशाच.
In the film, he learns he is able to have visions और his best dost Benny Weir ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
the series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures, साथ occasional सहायता इससे fellow vampires Rory ( cameron कैनेडी ) and Erica ( केट Todd ), जबकि dealing with the troubles of नियमित high school life.
A second season was confirmed to start production in September 2011 और it first premiered on डिज़्नी Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon started featuring season 2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28, 2012 and premiered it on January 10, 2013
Dodge b Series utility circa 1950, चलित by Albert Namatjira
A pickup ट्रक or pick-up, often simply referred to as a pickup, is a light motor vehicle with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
in North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a हल्का duty chassis and factory built, integrated bed, as well as for coupé utility vehicles, often आधारित on a निजी car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for ऐसे use.
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup, such as ute in Australia and New जीलैंड, or bakkie in South Africa.
विशाल पिकअप trucks are somewhat rare in यूरोपीय, where वैन and light lorries are commonly used for समान roles.
The अध्यक्ष of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
the president लीड the कार्यपालिका branch of the संघीय सरकारी and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
आलेख ii of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges उसे with the execution of federal law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive, diplomatic, regulatory, और judicial officers, and concluding treaties with foreign शक्तियां, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The अध्यक्ष is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, and to convene और adjourn either or both घरों of कॉंग्रेस under असाधारण circumstances.
चूंकि the founding of the United States, the power of the president और the संघीय government have grown substantially and each modern अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no औपचारिक legislative शक्तियां परे signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his पार्टी and the foreign and domestic policy of the United राज्य.
The president is अक्सर described as the most powerful person in the संसार.
The president is indirectly elected by the लोगों through the Electoral कॉलेज to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally elected संघीय officers, the other being the Vice अध्यक्ष of the United States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे ever being elected to the presidency for a third full पद.
It भी prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president, or acting president, for more than two सालो of another person 's term as president.
in all, 43 individuals have served 55 four-year terms.
On जनवरी 20, 2009, Barack Obama became the 44th और वर्तमान president.
On नवम्बर 6, 2012, he was re-elected and is अनुसूचित to serve until January 20, 2017.
Bottled mineral water
बोतलबंद water is drinking water ( e.g., खूब water, distilled water, Mineral water, or spring जल ) packaged in plastic or glass water बोतलों.
Bottled water may be कार्बोनेटेड or not.
Sizes range from छोटी single सेवारत bottles to large carboys for water coolers.
Map of the major rivers, lakes, and टंकी in India
Map showing rivers and बाढ़ prone areas in India
Rivers of India खेल an important role in the lives of the Indian people.
The river systems provide irrigation, potable water, cheap transportation, electricity, and the livelihoods for a large number of लोगों all over the देश और to rural areas.
This easily explains क्यों nearly all the major cities of India are located by the बैंको of rivers.
the नदियाँ also have an important role in Hindu mythology और are considered holy by all Hindus in the देश.
Seven प्रमुख rivers साथ साथ their numerous tributaries make up the नदी system of India.
Most of the rivers डालना their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however, some of the rivers whose courses take them through the western part of the country and towards the east of the state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian समुद्र.
Parts of Ladakh, northern parts of the Aravlli range and the arid भाग of the Thar Desert have inland नाले.
Dr.Francis बुकानन surveyed the courses of the rivers of India along with their tributaries and शाखाओं in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute खाता of it.
The shifting of the courses और bed over the centuries is very उल्लेखनीय.
अनेक of the channels mentioned in that survey have now become dead, dried or even extinct.
All major नदियाँ of India originate from एक of the three main watersheds :
The Himalaya and the Karakoram सीमाएँ
Vindhya and Satpura ranges और Chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or Western ghats in western इण्डिया
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management established the rules for वाणिज्यिक and financial relations among the world 's major industrial states in the mid-20th century.
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a fully negotiated monetary अनुक्रम intended to govern monetary संबंध among independent nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the international आर्थिक system as World War II was स्टिल raging, 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations gathered at the Mount Washington होटल in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, United States, for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference.
The delegates deliberated during 1–22 July 1944, और signed the Agreement on its final दिन.
Setting up a प्रणाली of rules, institutions, and procedures to regulate the international monetary system, the planners at Bretton Woods स्थापित the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक Fund ( IMF ) and the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD ), which today is part of the World बैंको Group.
These organizations became operational in 1945 after a sufficient number of countries had ratified the agreement.
The मुख्य features of the Bretton Woods system were an दायित्व for each country to adopt a monetary policy that कायम the exchange rate by tying its करेंसी to the U.S. dollar और the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United राज्य unilaterally terminated convertibility of the US $ to gold.
This brought the Bretton वुड्स system to an end and saw the डालर become fiat currency.
इस कार्रवाई, referred to as the Nixon shock, created the हालात in जिससे the United राज्य dollar became a reserve currency used by अनेक states.
At the वही time, अनेक fixed currencies ( ऐसे as GBP, for example ), also became free floating.
Ducati Motor पकड़कर S.p.A. is an Italian कम्पनी that designs and manufactures मोटरसाइकिल.
Headquartered in Bologna, Italy, Ducati is owned by Audi through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini.
A credit score is a numerical expression based on a statistical analysis of a person 's credit files, to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
A credit score is primarily based on credit रपट information typically sourced from credit bureaus.
Lenders, such as बैंको and credit card companies, use credit scores to evaluate the संभावित रिस्क posed by lending money to consumers and to mitigate नुकसान due to bad कर्ज़.
Lenders use credit scores to determine जो qualifies for a ऋण, at what interest rate, और what credit limits.
Lenders भी use credit scores to determine जिससे ग्राहक are likely to लाओ in the most revenue.
The उपयोग of credit or identity scoring prior to authorizing access or granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system.
Credit scoring is not limited to banks.
Other organizations, such as mobile phone companies, insurance companies, landlords, and government departments employ the same techniques.
क्रेडिट scoring भी has a lot of overlap साथ आंकड़ा mining, which uses many similar techniques.
These techniques combine thousands of factors लकिन they are more or कम similar or the same.
The seven si base units and the interdependency of their definitions : for example, to extract the definition of the metre इससे the speed of लाइट, the definition of the second must be ज्ञात while the ampere and candela हैं both dependent on the definition of energy which in फेरे is defined in terms of length, mass and time.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई ( SI ) defines सात इकाई of measure as a basic नियत from which all other SI इकाई हैं derived.
These SI base units और उनके physical quantities are:
metre for लंबाई ( US English : meter )
किलोग्राम for द्रव्यमान ( note : not the gram )
दूसरी for time
ampere for इलेक्ट्रिक current
kelvin for temperature
candela लिये luminous intensity
mole for the amount of पदार्थ.
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually स्वतंत्र dimensions as जरूरी by dimensional analysis commonly employed in विज्ञान and technology.
However, in a given realization of these इकाई वे may well be interdependent, i.e. defined in terms of each other.
The names of SI units are written in lowercase वर्ण ( the 'degree Celsius ' meets this rule, as 'degree ' is the unit, and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ).
The प्रतीकों of units are लिखा in lowercase ( e.g. metre has the symbol m ), except that symbols for units named बाद persons are written साथ an आरंभिक capital अक्षर ( e.g., the hertz रै the uppercase symbol hz ).
अनेक other इकाई, such as the litre ( us English : liter ), हैं formally not भाग of the SI, but are accepted for use साथ SI.
स्मारक Canyon
Colorado नेशनल स्मारक ( locally referred to as the Monument ) is a part of the National Park सेवा near the city of Grand जंक्शन, Colorado.
Spectacular canyons काटें deep into sandstone and भी granite–gneiss–schist rock formations, in some areas.
This is an area of desert जमीन high on the Colorado Plateau, with pinion and juniper forests on the plateau.
The park hosts a चौड़ी range of वन्यजीव, including red-tailed hawks and golden eagles, ravens, jays, desert bighorn sheep, and coyotes.
Activities शामिल hiking, horseback riding, road bicycling, and scenic drives ; a visitor center on the west side contains a प्राकृतिक history museum और gift shop.
There हैं magnificent views from trails and the रिम Rock Drive, which हवाएँ along the plateau.
Nearby are the Book cliffs, and the largest flat-topped mountain in the संसार, the Grand Mesa.
इसके feature attraction is Monument Canyon, which runs the width of the park, and includes rock formations ऐसे as स्वतंत्रता Monument, the Kissing Couple, and Coke चूल्हों.
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square miles ), much of which रै been अनुशंसित to Congress for designation as wilderness.
left to सही : Utility Uniform, Blue Dress Uniform, Service Uniform, and Evening Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of the United राज्य Marine Corps serve to distinguish Marines इससे members of other services.
Among current uniforms in the United States Armed Forces, the marines ' वर्दी have been in service the longest.
the Marine Dress Blue वर्दी has, with few changes, been worn in essentially its current form since the 19th century.
North American telephone area कोड 419 और 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. state of ओहियो.
The largest नगर served by these क्षेत्रफल कोड is Toledo ( and its suburbs of Holland, maumee, Northwood, Oregon, Ottawa Hills, Perrysburg, Rossford, Sylvania, Swanton, waterville, and Whitehouse ).
अन्य शहरों served by these area codes include एडीए, Ashland, bellevue, Bluffton, बोलिंग Green, Bryan, Bucyrus, Celina, Clyde, Crestline, Defiance, delphos, Edison, erastus, Findlay, Fostoria, Fremont, Galion, Kenton, लीमा, Mansfield, Mount Gilead, Napoleon, Norwalk, Oak हार्बर, Port Clinton, Sandusky, शेल्बी, St. Marys, Tiffin, Upper Sandusky, Van Wert, Wapakoneta, Wauseon, Willard.
अन्य areas served include the झील erie Islands north of बंदरगाहों Clinton and west of sandusky.
The main क्षेत्रफल code, 419, थी निर्मित as एक of the original क्षेत्रफल codes in October 1947 ; the overlay area कोड 567 थी निर्मित on January 1, 2002.
Despite the presence of Toledo, the state 's fourth-largest city, 419 was the पिछला of ओहियो 's असली four area codes to have been split or overlaid.
मिकी Leroy Gilley ( born March 9, 1936 ) is an अमरीकी country music singer and संगीतकार.
Although he प्रारंभ out singing straight-up country and western material in the 1970s, he स्थानांतरित towards a अधिक पॉप -friendly sound in the 1980s, bringing him further success on not just the country charts, but the pop charts as खूब.
Among उसके biggest हिट्स are `` Room Full of Roses, '' `` Do n't the Girls All Get Prettier at closing समय, '' और the remake of the आत्मा hit `` स्टैंड by Me ``.
he is भी the cousin of Jerry Lee लुईस, Carl McVoy, Jim Gilley और Jimmy Swaggart.
According to the Federal Aviation प्रशासन, Gilley is a licensed pilot, who holds an यंत्र rating साथ वाणिज्यिक pilot privileges for multi-engine airplanes, as खूब as private pilot privileges for single engine aircraft.
The September 11 attacks ( भी referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated आतंकवादी attacks शुभारम्भ by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York नगर and the Washington, d.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
दो of those planes, अमरीकी एयरलाइंस Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, were क्रैश into the North and South towers, respectively, of the World Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both मीनारें collapsed साथ debris and the resulting fires causing आंशिक or पूरा पतन of all other buildings in the wtc complex, as well as major damage to ten other विशाल surrounding structures.
a third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ), leading to a आंशिक पतन in its western side.
the fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington, d.C., but crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after its passengers आजमाया to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 नागरिकों and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
suspicion जल्दी fell on al-Qaeda.
हालांकि the group 's leader, Osama बिन Laden, initially denied any involvement, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda और bin Laden cited u.S. support of Israel, the presence of u.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on आतंक and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation और expanded law प्रवर्तन powers.
Having evaded capture for years, bin Laden थी located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets.
क्लीनअप of the World Trade Center site was completed in may 2002, और the प्रस्तुतीकरण was repaired भीतर a year.
Numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, including the National सितंबर 11 Memorial & Museum in New यॉर्क, the Pentagon मेमोरियल, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy विलंब, the One World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
ढूंढना Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama adventure फिल्मी written और directed by एंड्रयू Stanton, released by Walt Disney Pictures, और the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation studios.
It tells the स्टोरी of the over-protective clownfish नामित Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who, along with a regal tang named Dory ( Ellen degeneres ), searches for his abducted बेटे Nemo ( सिकंदर Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour.
Along the way, Marlin learns to take risks और let nemo take care of himself.
It is Pixar 's first film to be released in cinemas in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध summer.
the फिल्मी थी re-released for the first time in 3D on September 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
A sequel, Finding dory, is currently in विकास, set to be released on नवम्बर 25, 2015.
The film received universal critical acclaim और won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, and was nominated in three more categories सहित Best Original पटकथा.
It was the दूसरी highest-grossing film of 2003, कमाई a total of $ 921 लाख worldwide.
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time, with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006, and थी the highest-grossing g-rated film of सब समय before Pixar 's own Toy स्टोरी 3 overtook it.
It is also the 23rd highest-grossing film of all time, as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film.
In 2008, the American Film Institute named it the दसवाँ greatest animated film कभी made during their Top 10.
The sixth season of America 's Best नृत्य Crew, also known as America 's Best Dance Crew : ऋतु of the Superstars, premiered on अप्रैल 7, 2011 और concluded on June 5, 2011.
Auditions were held in four cities from January 21 through फ़रवरी 5 : Chicago, Houston, New York, and Los एंजिल्स.
इस season takes a different route from past seasons.
The crews must perform to the music of one विशिष्ट artist each week, including Rihanna, Lil Wayne, and other popular सितारों.
This season भी features special guest appearances by various music celebrities including Justin बीबर, The Black Eyed मटर, Katy Perry, Kesha, Nicki Minaj, और Kanye West.
डोमिनिक `` D-Trix '' sandoval, a former member of Quest क्रू, the winner of the third season of अमेरिका 's Best नृत्य Crew, joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge.
In the season finale, I aM mE was घोषित the winner of Season 6 and received the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize.
in the United States, Social Security refers to the old-age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance ( oasdi ) संघीय कार्यक्रम.
The असली Social Security Act ( 1935 ) और the current version of the अधिनियम, as amended, encompass several सोशल welfare and social insurance programs.
Social सुरक्षा is primarily funded through dedicated payroll कर called Federal बीमे Contributions अधिनियम tax ( FICA ).
Tax जमा are formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust निधि, the Federal विकलांगता Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Hospital बीमे Trust Fund, or the संघीय Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund जिससे comprise the Social Security विश्वास निधि.
Upward redistribution of income is responsible लिये परिचय 43 % of the projected Social सुरक्षा shortfall over the अगला 75 years.
According to economist Martin Feldstein, the combined बिता for all social insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of government expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic उत्पाद.
सोशल Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older out of गरीबी.
The Social Security Administration is headquartered in Woodlawn, मेरीलैंड, just west of Baltimore.
The alcohol by volume shown on a बोतल of absinthe.
दारू by volume ( abbreviated as ABV, abv, or alc/vol ) is a standard measure of how much alcohol ( ethanol ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ).
The ABV standard is प्रयुक्त विश्वव्यापी.
In some countries, alcohol by volume is referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the French chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ).
Laurel Hollow is a village in the Town of Oyster Bay in nassau काउंटी, New York in the United States.
The population was 1,952 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Charles John Huffam Dickens ( ; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870 ) was an अंग्रेज़ी writer and social critic.
He created some of the world 's सबसे memorable fictional characters और is generally regarded as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period.
During his life, his works enjoyed unprecedented fame, and by the बीसवीं सदी his literary प्रतिभाशाली थी broadly acknowledged by आलोचकों and scholars.
His novels और short stories continue to be widely लोकप्रिय.
Born in Portsmouth, England, डिकेंस left school to work in a factory after his father was thrown into debtors ' थाना.
हालांकि he had little औपचारिक education, उसके early impoverishment drove him to succeed.
Over उसके career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years, wrote 15 novels, 5 novellas और hundreds of short कहानियां and non-fiction articles, lectured और performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, and campaigned vigorously लिये children 's अधिकारों, education, and अन्य social reforms.
Dickens sprang to कीर्ति with the 1836 serial publication of The Pickwick papers.
भीतर a few सालो he had become an international literary celebrity, प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके humour, satire, and keen observation of character and society.
His novels, most प्रकाशित in मासिक or weekly instalments, pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction, जिससे became the dominant Victorian mode लिये अनोखा publication.
the किस्त format allowed Dickens to evaluate उसके दर्शक 's reaction, and he प्रायः परिवर्धित his plot and character विकास based on such प्रतिक्रिया.
लिये example, when उसके wife 's chiropodist expressed distress at the way मिस mowcher in David Copperfield seemed to reflect her disabilities, Dickens गई on to improve the character with धनात्मक lineaments.
fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; His caricature of Leigh Hunt in the figure of Mr Skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends, as they read एपीसोड.
In the same novel, both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the beadle हैं drawn from real life – boythorne from Walter Savage Landor and Mooney इससे 'Looney ', a beadle at Salisbury वर्गाकार.
His plots were carefully constructed, and Dickens प्रायः wove in elements from topical events into उसके narratives.
masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have each new मासिक episode पढ़ा to them, opening up और inspiring a नई class of readers.
डिकेंस was regarded as the साहित्यिक colossus of his age.
His 1843 novella, A Christmas कैरोल, is one of the most influential works कभी लिखा, and it remains popular and continues to inspire adaptations in प्रत्येक कलाकारी विधा.
His creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell —for इसके realism, कॉमेडी, गद्य style, unique characterisations, and social criticism.
On the अन्य hand Oscar Wilde, Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a lack of psychological गहराई, loose writing, and a vein of saccharine sentimentalism.
Martin Luther King and अन्य सिविल rights leaders in front of the statue of Abraham Lincoln, August 28, 1963
The civil rights movement was a series of worldwide राजनैतिक movements लिये समता before the विधि that peaked in the 1960s.
In अनेक situations it took the form of campaigns of civil प्रतिरोध aimed at achieving change by nonviolent forms of resistance.
In कुछ situations it was accompanied, or followed, by civil unrest और हथियारबंद rebellion.
The process थी long and tenuous in many countries, and many of these movements did not fully achieve their goals हालांकि, the efforts of these movements किया lead to improvements in the विधिक rights of previously oppressed समूह of people.
The main aim of the civil अधिकारों movement included, and include, ensuring कि the rights of all people हैं equally protected by the law, including the अधिकारों of minorities.
Civil अधिकारों movements ranging इससे the global lgbt rights movement to the global Women 's rights movement to various racial minority rights movements around the संसार continue.
the 2010 FIFA World कप was the 19th फीफा World Cup, the world championship for मेन 's national association football teams.
It took प्लेस in South अफ़्रीकी from 11 जून to 11 July 2010.
The bidding process for hosting the tournament फाइनल was open only to अफ़्रीकी nations ; in 2004, the international football federation, FIFA, selected South अफ़्रीकी over Egypt and Morocco to become the first African nation to host the फाइनल.
the matches were played in ten stadiums in नौ host cities around the country, साथ the final played at the Soccer City stadium in South Africa 's largest city, Johannesburg.
Thirty-two teams यहूद selected लिये participation via a worldwide qualification tournament that began in August 2007.
In the first गोलाकार of the टूर्नामेंट finals, the teams competed in round-robin groups of four teams for points, with the top two teams in each group proceeding.
ये sixteen teams advanced to the नॉकआउट stage, where three rounds of play decided which teams would participate in the final.
In the final, Spain, the European champions, पराजित third-time finalists the Netherlands 1–0 after extra time, with Andrés Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain their first world शीर्षक, becoming the eighth nation to जीत the tournament, and the पहला European स्वदेश to win the tournament outside इसके home continent.
Host स्वदेश South Africa, 2006 world champions Italy and 2006 runners-up France were all eliminated in the पहला round of the tournament.
It was the first time that the hosts were eliminated in the first round.
New जीलैंड with उनके तीन draws were the only undefeated team in the टूर्नामेंट, but यहूद also eliminated in the first round.
The McMuffin is a family of breakfast sandwiches in various आकार and configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's.
The अंडा mcmuffin is the signature breakfast sandwich ; it was invented by the late McDonald 's वाल Herb Peterson in the late 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972.
John Lennon was an English musician who gained worldwide fame as one of the founders of The Beatles, for his subsequent solo career, and for उसके राजनैतिक activism और pacifism.
He was shot by Mark David chapman at the प्रवेश of the building where he lived, The डकोटा, in New यॉर्क City on 8 December 1980.
Lennon had just लौटे from Record Plant Studio with his wife, Yoko Ono.
Lennon was सुनाया मुर्दे on आगमन at St. Luke's-Roosevelt हॉस्पिटल बीच, where it was stated that nobody could have lived for more than a few minutes बाद sustaining ऐसे injuries.
shortly after local news स्टेशन reported Lennon 's मौत, crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in सामने of the Dakota.
Lennon थी cremated on 10 दिसम्बर 1980 at the Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale, New York ; the राख यहूद given to Ono, who chose not to hold a funeral for him.
the पहला report of Lennon 's death to a u.S. national audience was घोषित by Howard Cosell, on ABC 's Monday Night Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख United States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the राज्य of Louisiana.
the population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The नई Orleans metropolitan area ( नई Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United राज्य.
the New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa संयुक्त Statistical Area, a larger trading area, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
the नगर is named after Orléans, a नगर located on the Loire नदी in केन्द्र, France, and is well ज्ञात for इसके पृथक फ्रेंच Creole वास्तुकला, as खूब as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New ऑरलियन्स is also famous for its cuisine, music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ), and its annual जश्न और festivals, most notably Mardi ग्रा.
The city is often referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
नई Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The city and ऑरलियन्स Parish ( ) हैं.
The नगर and मोहल्ला are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the east, Plaquemines to the south और Jefferson to the south and वेस्ट.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of which is included in the city limits, lies to the north and Lake borgne lies to the ईस्ट.
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on मंगलवार, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, former Vice-President Richard Nixon, won the election over the Democratic nominee, incumbent vice-president Hubert Humphrey.
निक्सन ran on a अभियान that promised to restore law और order to the nation 's शहरों, torn by riots और crime.
विश्लेषकों have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the New सौदे Coalition that था वर्चस्व presidential राजनीती for 36 years.
Coming चार years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson जीती in a historic landslide, the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the रेस and a रिपब्लिकन elected लिये the first time in twelve years.
it was a wrenching नेशनल experience, conducted दौरान a साल of violence that शामिल the assassination of civil rights leader Martin लूथर King, jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 लोकतांत्रिक National सम्मेलन as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election प्रदर्शित the strongest तीसरा पार्टी effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor जार्ज वालेस, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's अभियान opposed संघीय intervention in the South to end school पृथक्करण, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the उत्तर.
इस was the पिछला election in which नई York had the most votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, California gained the most electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state.
Karak ( ; also known as garak, Garrak, and gorg ) is a village in Gamasiyab Rural District, in the Central ज़िला of Nahavand County, Hamadan प्रांत, इरान.
At the 2006 जनसांख्यिकी, its जनसांख्यिकी was 294, in 65 families.
Kurt 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) was an American musician and कलाकार, बेहतरीन known as the lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene, having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the बैंड मिला breakthrough success with `` Smells जैसे Teen Spirit `` from इसके second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
following the success of nevermind, Nirvana was labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप band '' of Generation X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his संदेश और artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often विषय to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio album In utero ( 1993 ).
दौरान the पिछला सालो of his life, कोबेन struggled with heroin addiction, illness and depression.
He भी had difficulty coping with his fame and पब्लिक image, and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife, musician Courtney Love.
on April 8, 1994, Cobain was मिला dead at his home in Seattle, the victim of what was officially ruled a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted shotgun घाव to the head.
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
चूंकि उनके debut, निर्वाण, with कोबेन as a songwriter, has बेची over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
a millwright is a craftsman or tradesman engaged with the construction and maintenance of मशीनरी.
अधिक generally in the अंग्रेज़ी speaking संसार, जल्दी millwrights were विशेषज्ञ carpenters who erected मशीने प्रयुक्त in agriculture, food processing and प्रसंस्करण lumber and paper.
In the early part of the Industrial Revolution, उनके skills were pressed into service building the earliest powered textile mills.
आधुनिक millwrights कार्य with steel and other materials in जोड to लकडी and must often combine the कौशल of several skilled ट्रेड in order to successfully fabricate industrial machinery or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated भाग.
The modern millwright must also be able to पढ़ा blueprints और other schematics to सहायता him in the निर्माण of जटिल systems.
Millwrights are frequently unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the US, although experienced millwrights often set themselves up as independent contractors.
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American romantic action thriller film loosely based on the फिलिप K. Dick short स्टोरी, `` Adjustment Team ``.
The film was written और directed by George nolfi और सितारों Matt डैमन और एमिली Blunt.
The cast also includes एंथोनी Mackie, John Slattery, Michael Kelly, and Terence Stamp.
The score was composed by थामस Newman, with दो songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` भविष्य 's Bright '' for the खोलने sequence ; `` हैं You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ).
Sodium azide is the inorganic यौगिक with the formula nan3.
This colorless salt is the gas-forming component in many car airbag systems.
It is used लिये the preparation of अन्य azide compounds.
It is an ionic पदार्थ, is highly घुलनशील in water, और is very acutely toxic.
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows on the inside of the primary arc.
the छाया of the photographer 's head on the नीचे marks the केन्द्र of the रेनबो वृत्त ( antisolar point ).
a rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon कि is caused by प्रतिबिंब of light in water droplets in the Earth 's atmosphere, resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky.
It takes the form of a multicoloured arc.
rainbows caused by sunlight always appear in the खण्ड of sky directly opposite the sun.
in a `` प्राथमिक rainbow '', the arc shows red on the outer part and बैंगनी on the inner side.
इस rainbow is caused by light being refracted while प्रवेश a droplet of water, then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a second चाप is देखी outside the primary चाप, and रै the order of its colours reversed, red facing toward the other one, in both rainbows.
This second rainbow is caused by light reflecting twice अंदर water droplets.
The Conservative Party, officially the Conservative and Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the Tories, is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and अंग्रेजों unionism.
it is the largest political party in the संयुक्त किंगडम, being the largest single party in the House of Commons with 303 MPs, the largest party in लोकल government with 9,391 councillors, and the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs.
It governs in coalition with the Liberal Democrats, with party leader David cameron as प्रधान Minister.
The रूढ़िवादी Party was founded in 1834, और was one of two dominant parties in the 19th century, along साथ the Liberal Party.
It changed its name to the Conservative and यूनियनिस्ट Party in 1912 after merging with the उदार Unionist Party, although that name is rarely used and it is generally referred to as बस the Conservative Party.
In the 1920s, the Liberal vote greatly diminished and the Labour Party became the Conservatives ' main rivals.
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57 years of the 20th सदी, including Winston चर्चिल ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) और Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic उदारीकरण and saw the Conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the three major parties.
The पार्टी was returned to सरकारी in गठबन्धन, having failed to win a majority, in 2010 under the more `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron.
In the European पार्लियामेंट, the conservatives are the largest British party साथ 25 MEPs, who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives and Reformists ( ECR ) parliamentary group, while the party itself is a member of the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists ( aecr ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest party in the Scottish Parliament और second-largest in the Welsh Assembly.
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist पार्टी ( UUP ) as part of the Ulster Conservatives and unionists arrangement, with the UUP currently participating in the five-party उत्तरी Ireland Executive.
नियति 's Child was an American R & b girl group whose फाइनल, and शायद सबसे recognizable, line-up comprised बेयोंस Knowles, Kelly Rowland and Michelle विलियम्स.
Formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas, Destiny 's Child members began their musical endeavors as लड़की 's Tyme comprising, among others, Knowles, Rowland, latavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett.
After years of limited success, they were signed to Columbia Records as Destiny 's Child.
Destiny 's Child was शुभारम्भ into mainstream recognition following the release of their best-selling second album, the Writing 's on the Wall, which contained the number-one singles `` Bills, बिल्स, Bills `` and `` Say My Name ``.
Despite critical and commercial success, the group was plagued by internal विरोध and legal turmoil, as roberson and Luckett attempted to split इससे the group 's manager mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles and rowland, his बेटी और niece, respectively.
दोनो Roberson and Luckett were जल्द replaced साथ Williams and Farrah Franklin ; however, in 2000, Franklin was dismissed, leaving उन्हें as a trio.
Their third album, उत्तरजीवी, which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to the group 's experience, contains the worldwide hits `` Independent Women ``, `` Survivor `` and `` bootylicious ``.
in 2002, they announced a hiatus and re-united two years later for the रिलीज of their fourth studio album, नियति fulfilled ( 2004 ).
Destiny 's Child has sold more than 50 million रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी to date.
बिलबोर्ड magazine ranks the समूह as एक of the महानतम musical trios of all time, the ninth most successful artist/band of the 2000s, and placed the समूह 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008.
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human सेवाएं headquartered in Druid Hills, unincorporated dekalb County, Georgia, in Greater Atlanta.
It works to protect public health and safety by providing information to enhance health decisions, and it promotes health through partnerships with राज्य स्वास्थ्य विभाग और other संगठन.
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially संक्रामक diseases और foodborne pathogens and other microbial infections ), environmental health, occupational safety and health, health promotion, injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.
the सीडीसी is the United States ' national public health institute and is a founding member of the International Association of National Public Health संस्थान.
Earthquake prediction `` is प्रायः defined as the specification of the time, स्थान, and magnitude of a future earthquake within stated limits '', and particularly of `` the next दमदार earthquake to occur in a region. ''
This can be विशिष्ट इससे earthquake forecasting, which is the probabilistic assessment of सामान्य earthquake hazard, सहित the frequency और परिमाण of damaging earthquakes, in a given area over periods of सालो or decades.
This can be further distinguished from real-time भूकंप warning systems, which, upon detection of a severe earthquake, can provide neighboring regions a few सेकेंड चेतावनी of potentially significant shaking.
to be उपयोगी, an earthquake prediction must be precise enough to वारंट the cost of increased एहतियात, सहित disruption of ordinary activities and commerce, and timely enough that तैयारी can be made.
Predictions must भी be reliable, as गलत alarms and cancelled alarms are not तभी economically costly, but seriously undermine confidence in, and thereby the effectiveness of, any kind of warning.
With over 7,000 भूकंप around the world प्रत्येक year with a magnitude of 4.0 or वृहद, trivial success in earthquake prediction is easily प्राप्त using sufficiently broad parameters of time, location, or magnitude.
However, such नगण्य `` successful predictions '' are not useful.
Major भूकंप हैं प्रायः followed by reports that they यहूद predicted, or at least anticipated, but no claim of a कामयाब prediction of a major भूकंप has बच close inquiry.
in the 1970s there was intense आशावाद amongst scientists that some method of predicting भूकंप might be found, but by the 1990s continuing failure led अनेक वैज्ञानिकों to question whether it was भी संभावित.
While अनेक scientists still hold that, given पर्याप्त resources, prediction might be possible, many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible.
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' रयान ( born May 13, 1993 ) is an American actress, singer, musician, songwriter and record निर्माता.
Ryan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात for starring as बेली Pickett in the Disney Channel Original Series The Suite Life on Deck.
In 2008, The Suite Life on Deck क्रमित as TV 's top series among kids 6-11 and the No. 2 scripted श्रेणी among tweens 9-14.
Ryan प्रारंभ acting in professional थिएटर at the age of सात ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film बार्नी : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and then was discovered in a nationwide ढूंढें by Disney.
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 feature फिल्मी The longshots as एडिथ.
In 2009, she guest starred in an episode of Wizards of waverly Place in Wizards on Deck साथ Hannah Montana as बेली Pickett साथ साथ उसके other डाल mates from The सुइट Life on डेक.
Then, in 2010, वो starred in the film 16 Wishes, which was the most watched cable program on the day of its प्रीमियर on the Disney Channel.
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to नई audiences ; the movie received high viewership in the adults demographic ( 18-34 ).
Soon after that, Ryan starred in the independent theatrical film, कया If..., which premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan also स्ट्रक्चर in the नई Disney Channel Original movie, Radio Rebel, जहाँ she portrays the भूमिका of Tara Adams, a shy 17-year-old लड़की who adopts the radio personality, रेडियो विद्रोही.
Released February 17, 2012.
रयान stars in the titular role in the Disney Channel Original Series, Jessie.
stührling Tourbillon Movement ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition to the mechanics of a watch escapement.
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the अंग्रेज़ी chronometer maker John Arnold, a tourbillon aims to counter the effects of gravity by mounting the escapement और balance wheel in a घूर्णन cage, to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy, tourbillons are स्टिल included in some expensive modern watches as a novelty and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
The mechanism is usually exposed on the watch 's face to दिखाएँ it off.
The Windows installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a तन्त्र component used for the installation, maintenance, and removal of तन्त्र on आधुनिक Microsoft Windows systems.
the installation information, and often the files themselves, are packaged in installation पैकेज, loosely relational databases structured as COM Structured Storages and commonly known as `` MSI files '', from उनके default file extension.
Windows Installer contains significant परिवर्तन इससे इसके predecessor, सेटअप API.
New सुविधाएँ include a GUI framework and automatic generation of the uninstallation अनुक्रम.
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable installer frameworks ऐसे as older संस्करण of InstallShield और NSIS.
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows installer as the basis for installation frameworks, so that they synchronize correctly with other installers and keep the internal database of installed products consistent.
Important features such as rollback and versioning depend on a consistent internal database for reliable operation.
Furthermore, खिड़कियाँ Installer facilitates the principle of least privilege by performing software installations by proxy for unprivileged users.
Four लोको is a line of alcoholic पेय, originally marketed as energy drinks, sold by Phusion Projects of Chicago, इलिनोइस.
Phusion operates as पेय Four Brewing Company.
Four Loko, the कम्पनी 's most popular beverage, debuted in the संयुक्त States market in 2005.
it is now sold in 48 states, और in Canada, The Bahamas, Bolivia, होंडुरास, और Europe.
the नाम `` Four '' is निकला from the original energy drink 's four main संघटक : alcohol, caffeine, taurine, और guarana.
Four branded products have been the object of legal, ethical, and स्वास्थ्य concerns related to the company allegedly marketing them to the underaged and the purported खतरे of combining alcohol और caffeine.
After the beverage was banned in several states, a product reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, और guarana as ingredients, and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an उर्जा पेय.
The neck of a guitar showing the नट ( in the background, coloured white ) and first four metal frets.
A fret is a raised element on the neck of a stringed instrument.
Frets usually extend across the full width of the neck.
On most modern western fretted यंत्र, frets हैं metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
On some historical यंत्र and non-European instruments, frets are made of pieces of string tied around the neck.
frets divide the गर्दन into fixed segments at intervals related to a musical framework.
On instruments such as guitars, each fret represents one semitone in the standard पश्चिमी system where one अष्टक is divided into twelve semitones.
fret is often प्रयुक्त as a क्रिया, meaning simply `` to press down the string behind a fret. ''
Fretting प्रायः refers to the frets and/or their प्रणाली of अवस्थिति.
There was consumption of alcohol both during और after prohibition.
The 18th Amendment निषिद्ध the production, distribution and sale of alcoholic beverages in the United States और was widely supported by the American public when it went into effect in 1920.
The temperance गति had popularized the विश्वास that alcohol was the major cause of most निजी and सोशल problems and prohibition was seen as the समाधान to the स्वदेश 's poverty, crime, violence, and other ills.
Upon ratification of the amendment, the प्रसिद्ध evangelist Billy Sunday said that `` The slums होगा soon be only a memory.
We will turn our prisons into कारखानों and our jails into storehouses and corncribs. ''
( Compare Christianity and alcohol. )
Since दारू थी to be banned और since it was seen as the cause of सबसे, if नहीं all, crime, कुछ communities sold their jails.
the स्वदेश थी highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the संयुक्त States Congress confidently asserted that `` There is as much chance of repealing the Eighteenth amendment as वहीँ is लिये a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( मीटर in अमरीकी English ), ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI dimension symbol : l ), is the fundamental unit of लंबाई in the International System of Units ( SI ).
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance इससे the Earth 's equator to the उत्तर ध्रुव ( at समुद्र level ), its definition has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology.
Since 1983, it रै been defined as `` the length of the path travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a दूसरी. ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol, Negev Desert, Israel
Geologists explaining the importance of volcanic ash layers to students on field in Iceland
a geologist is a scientist who studies the ठोस और liquid पदार्थ that constitutes the धरती as well as the प्रक्रियाओं और history कि has shaped it.
Geologists प्रायः engage in studying geology.
Geologists, studying more of an लागू science than a सैद्धांतिक one, must approach Geology using physics, chemistry and biology as well as other sciences.
Geologists, compared to scientists engaged in other fields, are generally more exposed to the outdoors than रहकर in laboratories ; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab.
geologists are सगाई in exploration for mining companies in search of metals, oils, and other Earth resources.
They हैं also in the forefront of natural जोखिमों and disasters warning and mitigation, studying earthquakes, volcanic activity, tsunamis, weather storms, and the like ; their studies are प्रयुक्त to warn the सामान्य public of the occurrence of these कार्यक्रम.
Currently, geologists are also सगाई in the discussion of climate change, as वे study the history and evidence लिये this धरती process.
Below is a comprehensive ड्रिल and tap आकार chart for all drills, इम्पीरियल और metric, and taps up to 36.5 mm.
Modern vacuum tubes, ज़्यादातर miniature स्टाइल
In electronics, a vacuum ट्यूब, इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्यूब ( in उत्तर America ), thermionic valve, tube, or valve is a device controlling इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान through a vacuum in a sealed container.
The container is often thin transparent glass in a roughly cylindrical आकार.
The simplest vacuum ट्यूब, the diode, is essentially an incandescent light bulb with an added electrode inside.
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons are `` boiled '' off इसके surface और into the vacuum inside the bulb.
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is बना more धनात्मक than the hot filament, a सीधा current flows through the वैक्यूम to the एलेक्ट्रोड ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ).
As the current only बहती in one direction, it makes it possible to convert an alternating वर्तमान applied to the filament to direct current.
the introduction of a third electrode, a grid between the filament and the plate, yields another function.
a voltage applied to the ग्रिड controls the current flowing from the filament to the plate.
Thus, it allows the device to be used as an electronic amplifier.
Vacuum tubes are thus प्रयुक्त for rectification, amplification, switching, or similar processing or creation of electrical signals.
The vast majority of modern day tubes consist of a sealed container with a vacuum inside, and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot फिलामेंट or a कैथोड heated by the filament.
Some exceptions to this are dealt with in the खण्ड about gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology, which drove the expansion and commercialization of रेडियो broadcasting, television, रडार, ध्वनि reinforcement, sound recording and reproduction, large telephone networks, analog and डिजिटल computers, and industrial process control.
Although some applications had counterparts using पहले technologies such as the चिंगारी gap transmitter or mechanical computers, it थी the आविष्कार of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( पुकारा a triode ) and इसके capability of electronic amplification कि बना these technologies widespread and practical.
in most applications, solid-state devices such as transistors और other semiconductor devices have replaced tubes.
solid-state devices पिछला longer and are smaller, more कुशल, more reliable, and cheaper than tubes.
tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant unwanted heat, and can take अनेक seconds—many मिनट्स in critical applications—after powering on to warm to a temperature जहाँ वे perform within operational tolerance.
However, tubes still ढूँढें uses where solid-state devices have not महरूम developed, हैं impractical, or जहाँ a tube has superior performance, as with some devices in professional ऑडियो and high-power radio transmitters.
Tubes are स्टिल produced लिये such applications.
tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by the electromagnetic pulse produced by नाभिकीय विस्फोट और geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares.
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured sweets, currently produced and marketed by the Wm. wrigley Jr. Company, a division of Mars, Inc.
वे have hard शुगर shells which carry the letter S.
The inside is mainly शुगर, corn syrup, and hydrogenated palm kernel oil along with fruit रस, citric acid, and natural और artificial flavours.
The confectionery has महरूम sold in a variety of flavour collections, such as Tropical and Wild Berry.
Sir Winston Leonard spencer-churchill, ( 30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) was a British politician who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955.
Widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime leaders of the 20th सदी, Churchill was also an officer in the अंग्रेजों Army, a इतिहासकार, a writer, and an artist.
He is the only British प्रधान Minister in history to have received the नोबेल Prize in Literature, और was भी the first person to be made an मानद Citizen of the United States.
Churchill was born into an aristocratic family as the पोता of the 7th ड्यूक of Marlborough.
उसके पिता, Lord Randolph चर्चिल, was a charismatic राजनेता who served as चांसलर of the exchequer ; his mother, Jennie Jerome, was an American socialite.
As a young army officer, he saw action in British इण्डिया, The Sudan, and the दूसरी बोअर War.
He gained कीर्ति as a war correspondent and लिखा books परिचय his campaigns.
At the forefront of politics for पचास years, he held many राजनैतिक and कैबिनेट positions.
पहले the First World युद्ध, he served as President of the Board of Trade, घर Secretary, और First रब of the Admiralty as part of the Asquith उदार government.
During the युद्ध, he continued as First Lord of the Admiralty until the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign caused his प्रस्थान इससे government.
he then briefly resumed क्रियाशील army service on the Western सामने as कमांडर of the 6th बटालियन of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
He returned to government as Minister of Munitions, Secretary of State लिये War, और Secretary of राज्य for एयर.
After the War, चर्चिल served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( baldwin ) सरकारी of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a मूव widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the uk economy.
Also controversial was his विपक्ष to increased home rule for इण्डिया और his प्रतिरोध to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII.
Out of office और politically `` in the wilderness '' दौरान the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in warning about नाजी Germany और in campaigning for rearmament.
On the outbreak of the Second World War, he थी again appointed First Lord of the Admiralty.
Following the resignation of नेविली Chamberlain on 10 may 1940, चर्चिल became Prime Minister.
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat, surrender, or a compromise peace helped inspire British resistance, especially दौरान the difficult early days of the War when Britain stood alone among European countries in its active विपक्ष to Adolf हिटलर.
Churchill was particularly विख्यात for उसके speeches and radio broadcasts, जिससे helped inspire the अंग्रेजों people.
He led Britain as Prime Minister until victory over Nazi Germany had been secured.
बाद the रूढ़िवादी Party lost the 1945 चुनाव, he became Leader of the Opposition to the Labour ( Attlee ) government.
After winning the 1951 election, he again became Prime मंत्री, before retiring in 1955.
Upon his death, एलिज़ाबेथ II granted him the इज्ज़त of a state funeral, which saw one of the largest assemblies of संसार statesmen in history.
Named the महानतम briton of सब time in a 2002 poll, चर्चिल is widely regarded as होने among the most influential people in British history.
माणिक्य Gloom is an animated television show based on an apparel franchise.
The show is उत्पादित by nelvana and began airing on October 13, 2006 in कनाडा on the network YTV.
it stars the voices of Sarah Gadon, Emily Hampshire, and Peter Keleghan.
The घाट Focus is a compact car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the Ford Motor Company since 1998.
Ford began sales of the Focus to यूरोपीय in July 1998 और in North America during 1999 for the 2000 मॉडल year.
In Europe, South America, उत्तर America and South Africa, the Focus replaced the various versions of the Ford Escort sold in those markets.
In एशिया and Australasia, it replaced the घाट Laser.
As of the first half of 2012, the Focus surpassed the Toyota Corolla to become the world 's बेहतरीन selling ऑटोमोबाइल nameplate.
The Focus has been considered एक of the 50 महानतम गाड़ियाँ of the past fifty years by British magazine CAR.
An agar plate -- an example of a bacterial growth medium.
Specifically, it is a streak plate ; the नारंगी lines and dots are formed by bacterial colonies.
a growth medium or culture medium is a liquid or gel designed to support the growth of microorganisms or cells, or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens.
There are different types of media for growing अलग प्रकार of कोशिकाएं.
वहीँ are two major types of विकास media : those used for कोशिका culture, which use specific cell types derived from plants or animals, और microbiological culture, which are used for growing microorganisms, such as bacteria or yeast.
the most common growth media लिये microorganisms are nutrient broths और आगर plates ; specialized मीडिया are sometimes जरूरी for microorganism and cell culture growth.
कुछ जीवों, termed fastidious organisms, require specialized environments due to complex nutritional requirements.
Viruses, for उदाहरण, हैं obligate intracellular परजीवी and require a growth मीडियम containing living cells.
A talent agent, or booking एजेंट, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, film निर्देशकों, musicians, models, producers, professional athletes, writers and other people in various entertainment व्यवसायों.
an agent भी defends, supports and promotes the interest of his/her clients.
Agents can not produce their own shows due to विरोध of interest.
A talent agent जरूर be परिचित with their clients.
An agent has to know कया kind of कार्य the क्लाएंट can and can not do in order to match them with विभिन्न jobs.
Having an agent is not required, but does help the artist in getting jobs.
In many मामले casting directors, or other businesses, go to talent agencies to ढूँढें कलाकारों they are looking for.
The agent is paid a percentage of the star 's earnings ( typically 10 % ).
Agents sometimes होगा be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations कि govern different types of एजेंटों that are established by artist 's unions और the legal jurisdiction in जिससे the agent operates.
There are also professional organizations that अनुज्ञा talent agencies.
Since the decline in viewership in theaters, from the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a monumental shift in how studios would उपज films and thus reducing the लागत of विशेष and महंगी actors.
Actors and actresses were working for the studios but were not owned by एक major studio entity and so were able to कार्य on within उनके time and with अन्य studios.
Because of this, agents were now seen as a necessity बजाय of an option.
एजेंटों अभी became third parties that negotiated between studios and clients, this making their services imperative between each party.
Since talent agencies हैं working with lucrative contracts, all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Labor Code, which calls an agent a `` person or corporation who engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure नियुक्ति for कलाकार or artists. ''
Mars रै two known moons, phobos and Deimos, which are thought to be captured asteroids.
दोनो satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph हॉल and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and deimos ( terror/dread ) who, in Greek mythology, accompanied उनके पिता Ares, god of war, into battle.
Ares was known as Mars to the Romans.
it is possible that Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 meters and a dust ring between Phobos and Deimos may be present but none have महरूम discovered.
in law प्रवर्तन parlance, the term murder book refers to the case file of a murder investigation.
Typically, murder books include crime scene photographs and sketches, autopsy और forensic रिपोर्ट्स, transcripts of investigators ' टीप and witness interviews.
The murder book encapsulates the पूरा paper trail of a murder investigation, from the time the murder is first reported through the arrest of a suspect.
Law enforcement agencies typically guard murder books carefully, and it is unusual for नागरिकों to be given unfettered access to ये kinds of records, especially for unsolved मामले.
A melon baller
Melon balls are गेंदें of melon made using a melon baller कि varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters ( परिचय 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
They हैं generally प्रयुक्त in फल salad.
A ksa, or Knowledge, कौशल, and abilities, is a series of narrative statements that are जरूरी when applying to United States संघीय सरकारी जॉब उद्घाटन.
KSAs हैं used to determine, along with resumes, who the बेहतरीन applicants are जब several candidates qualify लिये a job.
The ज्ञान, skills and abilities ( KSAs ) necessary for the successful performance of a position हैं contained on each job vacancy announcement.
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal agencies to stop requiring job applicants to भरण out the questionnaires, to be phased out within a year.
KSAs are brief and focused essays about one 's career and educational background कि presumably qualify एक to perform the duties of the position being applied for.
A knowledge, skills, और abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay परिचय एक 's talent and expertise and सम्बन्धित अनुभवों ( work, education, स्वयंसेवी ) and accomplishments.
A series of KSA statements हैं usually required when applying for most federal सरकारी and कुछ राज्य and city government jobs.
ksas are used as a yardstick to assess the capabilities of a prospective applicant in terms of likely क्षमता to perform the duties of the job.
Most government hiring officials look for a short, crisp and clear KSA कि emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous work.
KSA statements are also known as Evaluation Factors.
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '', `` Quality Ranking Factors '', `` Knowledge, Abilities, skills and अन्य Characteristics '', or `` Job Elements ''.
The name can be just a name but often it influences content and length of the essay.
प्रत्येक agency has its own regulations but most of the time the each KSA फ़ैक्टर should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 पृष्ठों long.
The below definitions are defined by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management :
ज्ञान, कौशल, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - the attributes required to perform a job and are generally demonstrated through qualifying service, education, or training.
Knowledge - Is a body of information applied directly to the प्रदर्शन of a फलन.
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a learned psychomotor act.
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable behavior or a behavior that results in an observable product.
the scoring of ksa essays is based on a स्केल of from एक to 100.
Job applicants must score ऊपर 70 to be considered for the position.
High scores are निकला through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible, providing उदाहरण from previous employment or training कि clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications.
When applying to संघीय government स्थितियाँ, a Federal Resume is usually required in जोड to KSA statements.
right
Whole grains are cereal दाने कि contain cereal germ, भ्रूणपोष, and bran, in contrast to परिष्कृत grains, जिससे retain only the endosperm.
Common whole दाने include:
Wheat
Oat
Barley - Hulled और Dehulled ( not Pearl )
Maize
Brown rice
farro
Spelt
Emmer
Einkorn
Kamut
Rye
Millet
quinoa
Amaranth
Triticale
Teff
Sprouted Grains
Buckwheat
Common पूरे grain products include:
Whole wheat flour
Whole wheat Bread
Whole wheat Pasta
Rolled oats or oat groats
Triticale flour
Popcorn
teff flour
Common परिष्कृत non-whole grain products include:
Love Always is the debut album of American r & B duo K-Ci & JoJo, released on June 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
it was recorded at विभिन्न studios in New York and the Los एंजिल्स area in 1996 and 1997.
it was produced by JoJo and अनेक अन्य, including DeVante Swing, जेम्स Mtume, and Jeff Redd.
The duo were originally a part of Jodeci before this album.
The album peaked at sixth on the US Billboard 200 and also appeared on international charts.
The सिंगल `` सब My जीवन `` charted क्रमांक one in multiple countries, and सब four of the album 's singles peaked above the top 25 in the US Hot R & b/hip-hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles.
Love Always थी received favorably by critics, who praised the brothers ' गायन ability and the production.
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and gold by Music Canada और IFPI Sweden.
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9 million copies in the संयुक्त States.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ), or tracker mortgage is a mortgage ऋण with the interest रेट on the note periodically समायोजित based on an index which reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's standard variable चूहाe/ आधार rate.
There may be a direct और legally-defined link to the underlying index, but जहाँ the lender offers no specific link to the underlying market or index the rate can be बदला at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most आम outside the United States, whilst in the United States, `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most common, and implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal government, with caps on charges.
In many countries, adjustable rate mortgages are the norm, and in such स्थान, may simply be referred to as mortgages.
Among the most आम indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity Treasury ( CMT ) securities, the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ), and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders use their own cost of funds as an index, rather than using other indices.
This is किया to ensure a steady margin for the lender, whose अपना cost of funding will usually be सम्बन्धित to the index.
Consequently, payments made by the borrower may change over time with the बदलना interest रेट ( alternatively, the term of the ऋण may change ).
This is पृथक from the ग्रैजुएट payment mortgage, which offers changing payment amounts but a fixed interest रेट.
Other फ़ॉर्म of mortgage loan include the interest तभी mortgage, the फिक्स्ड rate mortgage, the ऋणात्मक amortization mortgage, and the balloon payment mortgage.
Adjustable rates ट्रांसफ़र part of the ब्याज rate रिस्क from the lender to the borrower.
They can be प्रयुक्त where unpredictable interest rates मेक fixed रेट loans difficult to obtain.
The borrower benefits if the interest rate falls लकिन loses if the interest rate increases.
The borrower benefits from reduced margins to the underlying cost of borrowing compared to फिक्स्ड or capped rate mortgages.
The assassination of रॉबर्ट Francis `` Bobby '' कैनेडी, a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy, took place shortly after midnight on June 5, 1968, in लॉस Angeles, California, दौरान the campaign season for the United States Presidential election, 1968.
बाद winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for the Democratic नामांकन for अध्यक्ष of the United States, Kennedy was शॉट as he walked through the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and died in the Good सामरी हॉस्पिटल twenty-six घंटों later.
sirhan Sirhan, a 24-year-old Palestinian / जार्डन immigrant, was convicted of Kennedy 's murder and is सेवारत a life sentence for the crime.
sirhan 's lawyers have released statements claiming evidence कि he was framed.
the shooting was recorded on audio tape by a freelance समाचारपत्र reporter, and the aftermath was captured on film.
Kennedy 's देह lay in repose at St. Patrick 's Cathedral in नई York for two दिनों before a funeral द्रव्यमान was held on June 8.
उसके body was interred near his brother John at आर्लिंगटन National Cemetery.
His death prompted the protection of अध्यक्षीय candidates by the United राज्य रहस्य Service.
ह्यूबर्ट Humphrey went on to win the Democratic nomination लिये the presidency, लकिन ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon.
as with his brother Jack 's मौत, bobby 's assassination and the हालातों surrounding it have spawned a variety of conspiracy theories.
As of 2013 Kennedy remains एक of only दो बैठे United States Senators to be assassinated ( the other being Huey Long ).
the Modern Age of कॉमिक Books is an informal name for the काल in the history of mainstream American comic books generally माना to last from the mid-1980s until उपस्थित day.
In this period, comic book characters generally became darker and more psychologically जटिल, creators became better-known and active in changing the industry, independent comics flourished, and larger publishing houses became more commercialized.
An alternate name for इस काल is the अंधेरा आयु of कॉमिक Books, due to the popularity और artistic influence of grim titles, such as and Watchmen.
When Harry मिले Sally... is a 1989 American romantic comedy film written by Nora Ephron और directed by Rob reiner.
It stars Billy क्रिस्टल as Harry and Meg Ryan as सैली.
The story follows the शीर्षक वर्ण from the समय they meet just before sharing a cross-country drive, through बारह सालो or so of chance encounters in New York नगर.
The film raises the सवाल `` can men and women ever just be friends ? '' and advances many ideas about relationships that became household अवधारणाओं, such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
The origins of the film आए from reiner 's return to सिंगल life after a divorce.
An interview ephron conducted साथ Reiner provided the basis for Harry.
Sally was based on Ephron and some of her friends.
Crystal came on board and made his अपना योगदान to the screenplay, making Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the ढांचा of the film with much of the dialogue based on the real-life दोस्ती between reiner and Crystal.
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by Harry Connick, Jr., with a बिग band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick जीती his first Grammy Award for बेहतरीन Jazz Male Vocal प्रदर्शन.
Columbia तस्वीरें released the film using the `` platform '' तकनीक, which involved opening it in a few select cities, letting positive word of mouth generate ब्याज, और then धीरे expanding वितरण over subsequent weeks.
When हैरी Met Sally... grossed a total of US $ 92.8 million in North अमेरिका.
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award, an Oscar nomination, and a Writers Guild of America Award नामांकन for her screenplay.
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Laughs सूची of the top comedy films in अमरीकी सिनेमा and number 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 funniest Movies ''.
In early 2004, the film was adapted लिये the stage in a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food उत्पाद primarily consisting of boxed pasta bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
The contents of प्रत्येक बक्सा are combined with browned ground beef, water and milk to बनाएँ a complete dish.
The उत्पाद line also features products with other starches such as rice or आलू instead of pasta.
It is made by General Mills.
हालांकि the क्लासिक boxed हैमबर्गर हेल्पर products only सप्लाई the starch item और the sauce packets, some varieties of the उत्पाद include ground बीफ.
These शामिल a frozen खाना line, जिससे सुविधाएँ some of the brand 's classic varieties in a complete meal kit form, with frozen ground beef और frozen sauce packaged separately from the नूडल्स in the same bag.
There is भी an `` instant '' संस्करण of Hamburger Helper containing dehydrated meat, नूडल्स and seasonings in a small थैली, requiring only water to be added.
The हैमबर्गर Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '', an anthropomorphic animated, four fingered left-hand glove, which appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages.
Ceres as देखी with the हबल Space Telescope.
It is the only बौना planet in the asteroid belt.
Pluto in approximate true colour आधारित on Hubble Space दूरदर्शी ऐल्बीडो data
Haumea with its moons, Hiʻiaka and Namaka ( artist 's conception )
Makemake ( artist 's conception )
eris and its moon dysnomia as seen with the Hubble Space Telescope
A dwarf ग्रह is a planetary-mass object that is neither a planet nor a उपग्रह.
More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf ग्रह as a celestial body in direct orbit of the Sun that is massive enough for its shape to be controlled by gravitation, but that unlike a ग्रह has not साफ its कक्षीय प्रदेश of other objects.
The term dwarf ग्रह was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the Sun, brought about by an increase in discoveries of trans-Neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in size, और आखिरकार precipitated by the डिस्कवरी of an even अधिक विशाल object, Eris.
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the neighbourhood of their orbit are defined as planets, while those that are not massive पर्याप्त to be rounded by their own गम्भीरता are defined as छोटी Solar System bodies.
बौना planets come in between.
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the iau रै been both praised और criticized ; it was said to be the `` right decision '' by Mike Brown, who discovered and other new dwarf planets, but has been rejected by Alan Stern, जो had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990.
The IAU currently recognizes five dwarf planets in the सौर System :, Pluto,,, और.
however, तभी two of these bodies, Ceres and Pluto, have been observed in पर्याप्त विवरण to demonstrate that they fit the definition.
Eris रै been accepted as a dwarf planet because it is more massive than Pluto.
The IAU subsequently decided कि बेनाम trans-neptunian objects with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a diameter of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1 ) हैं to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf ग्रह.
The तभी two such objects known at the time, Makemake and Haumea, went through this naming procedure and were declared to be dwarf planets.
it is suspected that another hundred or so known वस्तुएँ in the सौर System हैं dwarf planets.
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire प्रदेश known as the Kuiper बेल्ट is explored, and that the number may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered बाहर the Kuiper belt हैं माना.
Individual astronomers recognize several of ये, और in August 2011 Mike Brown प्रकाशित a list of 390 प्रत्याशी objects, ranging इससे `` nearly निश्चित '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets. '
Brown identifies nine ज्ञात वस्तुएँ – the five accepted by the iau plus,,, and – as `` virtually certain '', with another two दर्जन highly likely, and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total.
The classification of bodies in other ग्रहीय systems with the characteristics of बौना planets has not been addressed.
A डेबिट card ( also known as a bank card or जाँच कार्ड ) is a plastic भुगतान card that provides the cardholder electronic access to his or her bank account ( s ) at a वित्तीय institution.
कुछ cards have a भंडारित value with which a payment is made, while most relay a message to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account.
the card, where accepted, can be प्रयुक्त instead of cash when making purchases.
In some cases, the primary account number is आबंटित exclusively for use on the Internet and there is no physical card.
In अनेक देशों, the use of डेबिट ताश has become so फैली कि their volume has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques और, in some उदाहरण, नकदी transactions.
The विकास of डेबिट cards, नापसंद credit ताश and charge ताश, has generally been country specific resulting in a number of different प्रणालियों around the world, जिससे यहूद प्रायः असंगत.
Since the mid-2000s, a number of initiatives have अनुमत debit ताश issued in एक country to be used in other countries and allowed उनके use for internet और phone purchases.
Unlike credit and चार्ज cards, payments using a debit card are immediately transferred इससे the cardholder 's designated bank account, instead of them paying the धन back at a later date.
Debit cards usually also allow लिये instant वापसी of cash, acting as the ATM कार्ड for withdrawing नकदी.
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to customers, where a ग्राहक can withdraw cash along with their purchase.
Francois Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26, 1914 - January 23, 2011 ) was an American fitness, exercise, और nutritional expert and motivational स्पीकर who is sometimes called `` the godfather of fitness '' और the `` पहला फ़िटनेस superhero. ''
He वर्णित himself as being a `` sugarholic '' and a `` junk food junkie '' until he was 15.
He भी had behavioral problems, but `` turned his life around '' after listening to a public lecture by Paul Bragg, a well-known nutrition speaker.
दौरान his करियर, he came to believe that the country 's overall स्वास्थ्य depended on the health of its population, लिखने that `` शारीरिक culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America. ''
Decades before स्वास्थ्य and fitness began being promoted by celebrities जैसे Jane Fonda and Richard Simmons, LaLanne थी already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of नियमित exercise and a good आहार.
He published numerous books on fitness and hosted a fitness टेलीविज़न show between 1953 and 1985.
As early as 1936, at age 21, he opened एक of the nation 's पहला fitness gyms in Oakland, California, which became a prototype लिये दर्जनों of similar gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s television exercise programs was aimed toward women, whom he भी encouraged to join his health clubs.
He invented a क्रमांक of exercise machines, including leg-extension and pulley devices.
besides producing उसके own श्रेणी of वीडियो, he coached the elderly and disabled not to forgo exercise, believing it would enable them to enhance their strength.
LaLanne भी gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder, as well as for his prodigious feats of strength.
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated, `` That जोकर LaLanne 's an एनिमल !, '' after LaLanne, at 54, beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an अनौपचारिक contest.
on the अवसर of LaLanne 's मौत, Schwarzenegger credited lalanne for being `` an apostle लिये fitness '' by प्रेरणादायी `` billions all over the world to live healthier lives, '' and, as governor of California, था earlier लगाई him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness.
स्टीव Reeves credited LaLanne as उसके प्रेरणा to build his muscular physique जबकि keeping a slim waist.
he was inducted to the California Hall of Fame and रै a star on the हॉलीवुड Walk of Fame.
Air forces of most of the countries use system similar to Armies.
However, the RAF and the air शक्तियां of many राष्ट्रमंडल countries, or those formerly under a अंग्रेजों influence, उपयोग a different set of बाँधने loosely आधारित on naval equivalents ; लेफ्टिनेंट, कमांडर, Captain and Commodore are prefixed for air फ़ोर्स use with Flight, wing, Group and एयर, respectively ( the पहला three being the इकाई कि they used to कमांड ).
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born April 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an agent at age 15, she made her acting debut at 16 on television and her feature film debut the following year in Jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to critical acclaim.
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your Eyes ( 1997 ), The hi-lo Country ( 1999 ), The Girl of अपना Dreams ( 2000 ) and स्त्री on शीर्ष ( 2000 ).
Cruz हासिल recognition for her सीसे roles in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow.
She रै since built a successful career, appearing in films from a wide range of genres, including the कॉमेडी Waking up in Reno ( 2002 ), the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ), the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ), and the action एडवेंचर सहारा ( 2005 ).
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in Volver ( 2006 ) and नौ ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी Globe and Academy पुरस्कार nominations for each.
She won the Academy Award for Best supporting Actress in 2008 लिये Vicky Cristina Barcelona.
She was the first Spanish actress in history to receive an Academy Award and the first Spanish actress to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of कीर्ति.
Cruz रै modeled for कंपनियाँ such as Mango, Ralph Lauren and L'Oréal.
Penélope and her younger sister Mónica Cruz have designed items for Mango.
She has donated both her time and धन to charities.
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda और India, where she spent one सप्ताह working for Mother Teresa ; she donated her salary from ' to help fund the late nun 's मिशन.
A wax मूर्तिकला of Cruz will be लगाई in a premier spot in the Grevin Wax Museum in Paris.
File Explorer, previously known as खिड़कियाँ Explorer, is a file manager application and also a navigation औजार that is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows operating system from खिड़कियाँ 95 onwards.
It provides a graphical user interface for accessing the संचिका systems.
It is also the घटक of the operating system that presents अनेक user interface items on the मॉनिटर such as the taskbar and desktop.
Controlling the कंप्यूटर is संभावित without Windows Explorer कार्यशील ( लिये उदाहरण, the File | Run कमांड in कार्य Manager on NT-derived संस्करण of Windows will function without it, as होगा commands typed in a command prompt window ).
स्तिथ in the C : \Windows निर्देशिका, it is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell, explorer.exe, or बस “Explorer”.
the परवाह Bears हैं characters created by American Greetings in 1981 for उपयोग on greeting cards.
The original artwork for the cards was painted by कलाकार Elena Kucharik.
In 1983, Kenner turned the परवाह Bears into plush teddy bears.
The Care Bears appeared in their own tv specials called The Care Bears in the Land बगैर Feelings ( 1983 ) and The Care Bears Battle the Freeze यंत्र ( 1984 ).
They also had their own television series from 1985 to 1988, in addition to three feature films : The परवाह Bears Movie ( 1985 ), Care Bears फिल्म II : A नई Generation ( 1986 ), and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ).
Each Care भालू आता in a different color and रै a specialized insignia on इसके belly कि represents इसके ड्यूटी and personality.
This insignia was known as their `` tummy symbol. ''
However, the फिल्म Care bears : Oopsy Does It ! renamed them `` belly badges ''.
Adding to the Care Bear family हैं the `` परवाह Bear Cousins '', which feature a lion, rabbit, penguin, raccoon, and other ऐसे animals created in the same style as the टेडी bears.
In 2002, the bears were reintroduced with नई toys.
Made by play-along Toys, the new toys offered features such as illuminated bellies upon touch, aerobic bears, और glow-in-the-dark bears.
As part of this comeback, the Bears have appeared in two computer-animated movies : Care Bears : Journey to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care Bears ' बिग Wish फिल्म ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary ; another relaunch took place, as well as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy करता it !.
In mid-2011, ag announced a revival TV animated श्रेणी titled `` Care Bears : स्वागत to care-a-lot ``.
the premiere of the series utilizes `` 30 years of caring ''.
It premiered on The हब on June 2, 2012.
As of 2013, Care Bears merchandise is still being marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and France 's moonscoop Group attempted to acquire the मताधिकार from AGC, with no apparent success.
Interstate 70 ( i-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the संयुक्त States that runs इससे Interstate 15 near Cove फोर्ट, यूटा, to a Park and Ride near Baltimore, Maryland.
It was the पहला Interstate Highway प्रोजेक्ट in the संयुक्त States.
i-70 approximately traces the path of u.S. Route 40 ( and also the बूढ़ा National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains.
West of the Rockies, the route of i-70 was derived from multiple sources.
I-70 is the fifth longest Interstate Highway, after I-90, I-80, I-40, और I-10.
the construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the route passes through the आइज़नहावर Tunnel, Glenwood Canyon, and the San राफेल swell.
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the उच्चतम पाइंट along the Interstate Highway system with an elevation of.
The sections of the interstate in मिसौरी and Kansas have laid claim to be the first अंतरराज्यीय in the United States.
Though disputed, the संघीय राजमार्ग Administration has claimed the section of I-70 through Glenwood canyon, completed in 1992, थी the पिछला टुकड़ा of the Interstate Highway प्रणाली, as originally नियोजित, to open to traffic.
Photo of 1999 कुल eclipse
as seen from the Earth, a solar eclipse occurs when the चंद्रमा गुजरता between the सूर्य और Earth, और the Moon fully or partially ब्लॉक ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
This can happen तभी at new moon, when the Sun and the Moon are in conjunction as seen from Earth in an संरेखण referred to as syzygy.
In a total ग्रहण, the disk of the Sun is fully obscured by the Moon.
In partial and annular eclipses only part of the Sun is obscured.
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit, a little closer to the Earth, and in the same orbital plane, वहीँ would be कुल solar eclipses every single month.
however, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at more than 5 degrees to Earth 's orbit around the Sun ( देखिए ecliptic ) so its छाया at new moon usually misses Earth.
धरती 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the Moon 's कक्षा जरूर cross इस प्लेन in order for an ग्रहण ( both solar as well as lunar ) to occur.
In addition, the Moon 's वास्तविक orbit is elliptical, often लेने it far enough away from धरती कि its apparent size is नहीं large enough to block the Sun totally.
the orbital planes cross each year at a line of nodes resulting in at least two, और up to five, solar eclipses occurring each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses.
However, total solar eclipses are rare at any particular location because totality exists only along a narrow path on Earth 's surface traced by the Moon 's छाया or umbra.
An eclipse is a natural phenomenon.
Nevertheless, in some ancient और modern cultures, solar eclipses have been attributed to अलौकिक causes or regarded as bad शकुनों.
A total solar ग्रहण can be frightening to people जो are unaware of its astronomical स्पष्टीकरण, as the Sun seems to disappear during the day and the sky darkens in a पदार्थ of minutes.
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the सूर्य, observers should उपयोग special नजर protection or indirect viewing techniques जब viewing a partial eclipse, or the partial phases of a कुल eclipse.
it is safe to view the total phase of a कुल solar eclipse with the unaided eye और without protection, however.
लोगों referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles will travel to remote locations to observe or witness predicted central solar eclipses.
A political party ( इससे, Genitive partis, `` part '', `` portion '' ) is a political organization that typically seeks to influence, or entirely control, government policy, usually by nominating candidates with लकीर political views and trying to seat them in राजनैतिक office.
Parties participate in चुनावी campaigns and शैक्षणिक outreach or protest actions.
Parties often espouse an ideology or vision, expressed in a पार्टी कार्यक्रम, bolstered by a written platform with specific लक्ष्य, forming a coalition among disparate interests.
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous tropical fruiting trees in the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae.
The mango is native to South Asia, from जहाँ it has been distributed worldwide to become one of the सबसे cultivated fruits in the tropics.
While other Mangifera species ( e.g. horse mango, M. foetida ) हैं also grown on a more localized basis, mangifera indica – the 'common आम ' or 'Indian आम ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical और subtropical regions.
It is the national fruit of India, पाकिस्तानी and Philippines.
In several cultures, its fruit और leaves are ritually प्रयुक्त as पुष्पक decorations at weddings, public celebrations और religious ceremonies.
Gill Arnette byrd, < ref name > http : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1961 in San Francisco, California ) is a former professional American football खिलाड़ी.
he was a two समय Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the San Diego chargers after graduating from San Jose State University.
byrd थी inducted into the chargers हॉल of Fame in 1998.
He was an all-city running back और defensive वापस at Lowell ऊँची School ( सैन फ्रांसिस्को ), helping to lead the Cardinals to the city championship in उसके वरिष्ठ season of 1978.
World map showing the Tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the उत्तरी tropic, is the circle of latitude on the Earth कि marks the सबसे northerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at इसके zenith.
This event occurs once प्रति year, at the time of the June solstice, when the Northern गोलार्ध is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
it currently ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ उत्तर of the Equator.
इसके Southern Hemisphere बंटवारा, अंकन the most southerly स्थिति at which the Sun may appear directly overhead, is the Tropic of मकर.
These tropics are two of the five major degree उपायों or प्रमुख circles of अक्षांश that mark maps of the Earth, besides the Arctic और Antarctic Circles and the equator.
the positions of these circles of latitude ( other than the Equator ) are dictated by the tilt of the Earth 's axis of रोटेशन relative to the plane of its orbit.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, and is currently the dominant consumer वीडियो format in Asia, North America, Europe, और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a dvd drive and an h.262/mpeg-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a dvd player, or a computer DVD drive साथ a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and ऑडियो of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
Typically, the data rate for dvd movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, और the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was first available for retail around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was निर्मित by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo लाइसेंसिंग Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly available, because प्रत्येक subscriber must चिह्न a non-disclosure अनुबंध.
निश्चित information in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential.
In कम्प्यूटिंग और specifically Internet, a leech is एक जो लाभ, usually deliberately, इससे others ' information or प्रयत्न but does not offer anything in return, or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid होने called a जोंक.
In economics, इस type of behavior is called `` फ़्री सवारी '' and is associated with the फ़्री rider problem.
Depending on context, leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources, but often instead to लालची use according to etiquette : to wit, using too much of what is freely given without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community कि provides it.
The name derives from the leech, an animal कि sucks रक्त और then tries to leave unnoticed.
अन्य terms are used, such as `` freeloader '', but leech is the सबसे common.
The full त्रिभुज logo, used in various संस्करण from 1970 to 1993.
the United States Postal Service ( USPS ), also known as the पोस्ट Office और U.S. मेल, is an independent agency of the United States संघीय government जिम्मेदार for providing postal service in the United States.
It is one of the few government agencies explicitly प्राधिकृत by the United States Constitution.
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the दूसरी महाद्वीपीय Congress, where Benjamin Franklin थी नियुक्त the first postmaster general.
The cabinet-level पोस्ट दफ्तर विभाग was created in 1792 from Franklin 's operation and रूपांतरित into its current form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act.
The USPS employs over 574,000 मजदूर और operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The USPS is the ऑपरेटर of the largest vehicle fleet in the world.
The USPS is legally obligated to serve all Americans, regardless of geography, at uniform दाम and quality.
the USPS has विशेष अभिगम to अक्षर बाक्स marked `` U.S. Mail '' and personal letterboxes in the United States, but still competes against निजी package डिलीवरी services, such as UPS और FedEx.
The USPS has not सीधे प्राप्त taxpayer-dollars since the जल्दी 1980s with the minor exception of subsidies for costs associated with the disabled and विदेशी मतदाता.
Since the 2006 all-time शिखर mail volume, after which Congress passed the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act ``, ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion प्रति year to be paid into an account to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the भविष्य, a requirement अद्वितीय among organizations और businesses in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail आवाज़, prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit.
Washington, d.C. has been the capital of the United राज्य since 1800.
Eight other cities have परोसा as the meeting प्लेस for कॉंग्रेस and हैं therefore considered to have once been the capital of the United States.
in addition, each of the 50 U.S. states and the पाँच principal territories of the United States maintains its अपना capital.
राजकुमारी cut डायमंड नियत in a रिंग
The राजकुमारी cut is the second सबसे popular cut shape for diamonds, next to a round brilliant.
The face-up shape of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the प्रोफ़ाइल or side-on shape is similar to that of an inverted pyramid with four beveled sides.
the princess काटें is a relatively new diamond cut, having been created in the 1960s.
it has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more popular round brilliant cut, in which the top of diamond, called the क्राउन, is cut with a round face-up shape और the bottom, पुकारा the pavilion, is shaped समान to a cone.
A राजकुमारी cut साथ the same width as the diameter of a round brilliant will weigh अधिक as it has four corners which would otherwise have been cut off और rounded to form a round brilliant.
The राजकुमारी काटें is sometimes referred to as a square modified brilliant.
However, while displaying the वही high degree of brilliance, its faceting style is unique and completely different from कि of a round brilliant.
The राजकुमारी cut था इसके origins in the early `` French '' cut, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` क्रॉस '' cut crown and a series of अद्वितीय, chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion which combine to give a पृथक cross-shaped reflection when the stone is viewed directly through the table.
Effectively, the Princess काटें combines the high degree of light return of a round brilliant cut with a distinctive square or rectangular shape.
The वर्गाकार princess cut diamond is usually slightly सस्ता than गोलाकार शानदार cut diamonds of the same carat वज़न because it retains about 80 % of the अशिष्ट diamond, as opposed to the round brilliant जिससे retains only about 50 % of the अशिष्ट.
The ability to retain अधिक crystal वज़न makes this shape popular amongst diamond cutters.
Accredited gem Appraisers ( AGA ) और American Gem Society Laboratory ( AGSL ) and European Gem laboratories-usa ( EGL-USA ) are फिलहाल the only labs that grade the राजकुमारी काटें for cut.
There is no universal definition of what माप make an ideal princess cut diamond and many diamond manufacturers market आदर्श diamonds साथ differing facet पैटर्न and angles as `` ideal काटें ''.
In contrast to the AGSL, AGA, and egl-usa the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated कि there is नहीं enough industry consensus or empirical data to specify cut grading मानकों for राजकुमारी cut diamonds and to do so is at the risk of consumers जो may be deceived by diamonds accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut ग्रेड.
The name `` राजकुमारी Cut '' was originally प्रयुक्त in connection साथ another diamond cut, otherwise known as the `` Profile '' cut, designed by Arpad Nagy, a London cutter, in 1961.
The वही name थी बाद used and made popular by ygal पर्लमैन, Betzalel Ambar, और Israel Itzkowitz in इसराईल in 1979.
A similar cut with only 49 facets, as opposed to the original 58 facets of the princess काटें, was later branded the `` Quadrillion '' और initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in लॉस Angeles.
Three years of optical research yielded a square स्टोन साथ faceting similar to that of a गोलाकार brilliant काटें diamond.
A Comparison
The number of chevrons can affect the overall outlook of a princess cut diamond.
इस can usually be determined by the तार diagram that is plotted in diamond grading रिपोर्ट्स.
By adding अधिक chevrons on the pavilion side of the diamond, the individual facets of the डायमंड होगा now be टूटा down into छोटी facets.
As a result, it can दे a princess cut diamond a `` crushed ice '' look.
Vice versa, when a princess cut diamond has lesser chevrons, it tends to give the diamond a chunky outlook due to broader facets.
The घरेलू श्वान ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ), a member of the Canidae family of the mammalian order Carnivora.
The term `` domestic dog '' is generally used लिये both domesticated and feral varieties.
The dog रै been the first animal to be domesticated and has महरूम the most widely kept working, शिकार, और pet animal in human history.
The शब्द `` dog '' may also mean the पुरूष of a canine species, as opposed to the word `` bitch '' for the female of the species.
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage और the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 years ago लकिन,, the oldest fossil specimens genetically linked to the modern श्वान 's lineage तिथि to लगभग 33,000-36,000 years ago.
Dogs ' value to जल्दी human hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें quickly becoming ubiquitous across world संस्कृतियों.
कुत्तो perform अनेक roles लिये लोगों, ऐसे as शिकार, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and military, companionship, और, अधिक recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
This impact on human society has given them the nickname `` man 's Best Friend '' in the पश्चिमी world.
In some संस्कृतियों, dogs are also a सोर्स of meat.
In 2001, there were estimated to be 400 million कुत्तो in the world.
Most breeds of dogs are at most a few सौ years old, having been artificially selected for particular morphologies and व्यवहार by people for specific functional roles.
Through this selective breeding, the dog has developed into hundreds of varied breeds, and shows more behavioral and morphological variation than any other land mammal.
For example, ऊँचाई measured to the withers ranges इससे in the Chihuahua to परिचय in the Irish Wolfhound ; color varies from श्वेत through grays ( usually called `` blue '' ) to black, and browns from light ( tan ) to dark ( `` red '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a wide variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, curly, or smooth.
It is common for सबसे breeds to शेड this coat.
Diagram of a transmission electron microscope
A 1973 Siemens electron microscope, Musée des Arts et métiers, Paris
An electron सूक्ष्मदर्शी ( EM ) is a type of microscope that uses an electron beam to illuminate a नमूना and produce a magnified image.
an EM रै वृहद resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the structure of smaller objects because electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible लाइट photons.
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal light microscopes हैं सीमित by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x.
The electron microscope uses electrostatic and electromagnetic lenses to control the electron beam and focus it to form an image.
ये electron optical lenses are analogous to the glass lenses of a light ऑप्टिकल microscope.
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide दायरा of biological and inorganic specimens including microorganisms, cells, large molecules, biopsy samples, metals, and crystals.
Industrially, the इलेक्ट्रॉन microscope is often प्रयुक्त लिये quality control and failure analysis.
Modern electron microscopes produce electron micrographs, using specialized digital cameras or frame grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a कड़ी of fried chicken तेज़ food restaurants founded in 1972 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as popeyes Chicken & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & Seafood, It was acquired by Sandy Springs, जॉर्जिया -based AFC Enterprises, originally America 's Favorite मुर्गा Company, in 1993.
According to a company press release dated जून 29, 2007, Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group, measured by number of units '', साथ more than 1,800 restaurants in more than 40 states और the District of Columbia, and over 22 countries worldwide including Turkey, Northern Cyprus, बहरीन, China, हांग Kong, इराकी, Indonesia, जॉर्डन, कुवैत, United अरब Emirates, Japan, Malaysia, Saudi अरब, South Korea, Singapore, Canada, Jamaica, गुयाना, सूरीनाम, Mexico, Trinidad, Puerto Rico, होंडुरास, वियतनाम, Panama, Peru, and Costa Rica.
About thirty स्थितियाँ are company-owned, the rest franchised.
The leg press is a weight training exercise in which the individual pushes a weight or resistance away इससे them using उनके legs.
The term leg press also refers to the apparatus used to perform इस exercise.
The लेग press can be used to evaluate an athlete 's overall lower body strength ( from घुटना joint to hip ).
using the diagonal sled-type leg दबायें machine.
There हैं two main types of leg press:
The diagonal or लंबवत 'sled ' type leg press.
Weight disks ( plates ) are attached directly to the sled, जिससे is mounted on rails.
The user sits below the sled and pushes it upward साथ their feet.
ये machines normally include adjustable safety brackets कि prevent the user from being trapped under the weight.
The 'cable ' type leg press, or 'seated leg press ', commonly found on multigyms.
The user sits upright और pushes forward with उनके feet onto a plate that is attached to the weight stack by means of a long steel केबल.
Wendy Williams Hunter ( born वेन्डी Joan Williams ; July 18, 1964 ) is an American media personality, actress और author.
She hosts a syndicated television talk show, The Wendy Williams Show.
Prior to television, विलियम्स was a `` shock jockette `` on several radio shows.
Williams has gained notoriety for her on-air spats with celebrities.
She थी the विषय of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series पुकारा The वेन्डी Williams Experience जिससे broadcast events surrounding her radio show.
She has written an autobiography and अनेक अन्य books, and has created a product line called Adorn by Wendy विलियम्स.
Patrick Henry `` देशद्रोह '' speech पहले the हाउस of Burgesses in an 1851 painting by Peter F. Rothermel
`` दे me liberty, or give me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to Patrick हेनरी from a speech he made to the वर्जिनिया सम्मेलन.
On कि day, at St. John 's गिरिजाघर in Richmond, Virginia, और is credited साथ having swung the balance in convincing the Virginia House of Burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary युद्ध.
Among the delegates to the convention were future US Presidents Thomas Jefferson and George Washington.
Newfoundland and Labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada.
Situated in the country 's Atlantic प्रदेश, it incorporates the island of Newfoundland and mainland labrador to the उत्तरपश्चिम, with a संयुक्त area of.
In 2011, the province 's population was 514,536.
Approximately 92 percent of the province 's population जीवनदान on the Island of Newfoundland ( including its associated smaller islands ), of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula.
The province is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous, with 97.6 % of निवासियों रिपोर्टिंग English ( Newfoundland English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ;.
Historically, Newfoundland was also home to अद्वितीय किस्में of French, and Irish, as well as the now-extinct beothuk language.
In Labrador, local dialects of innu-aimun और inuktitut are also spoken.
Newfoundland and Labrador 's पूंजी and largest नगर, St. जॉन 's, is कनाडा 's 20th-largest जनसांख्यिकी Metropolitan Area, and is घर to almost 40 प्रतिशत of the province 's population.
St. John 's is the seat of सरकारी, home to the House of Assembly of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and Labrador and the highest अदालत in the jurisdiction, the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of अपील.
A former उपनिवेश and dominion of the United Kingdom, Newfoundland and Labrador became the tenth province to enter the Canadian Confederation on March 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
On December 6, 2001, an amendment was made to the Constitution of Canada to change the province 's official name to Newfoundland और Labrador.
in day-to-day conversation, however, Canadians generally स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as Newfoundland and to the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador.
Theodore `` t.r. ''
Roosevelt, jr. ( ; October 27, 1858—january 6, 1919 ) was the 26th President of the United States ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted for his exuberant व्यक्तित्व, दायरा of interests and achievements, and his leadership of the प्रगतिशील Movement, as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity.
He थी a leader of the Republican Party and founder of the पहला incarnation of the short-lived Progressive ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
Before becoming President, he held offices at the city, state, और federal स्तर.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, explorer, hunter, लेखक, and soldier हैं as much a part of his कीर्ति as any office he held as a politician.
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the United States in 1901, making him the youngest president कभी ; he beat out the youngest elected president, John F. Kennedy, by only one year.
Roosevelt was also the first of only three बैठे presidents to have जीती the Nobel Peace पुरस्कार.
The Teddy bear is named after him, despite his अवमानना लिये being called `` Teddy ''.
Born into a wealthy family in New York नगर, रूज़वेल्ट was a sickly child who suffered इससे asthma and stayed at home studying natural history.
To overcome उसके physical weakness, he embraced a strenuous life.
Home-schooled, he became an eager student of nature.
he attended Harvard विश्वविद्यालयों, where he studied जीवविज्ञान, boxed and developed an interest in नवल affairs.
In 1881, एक year out of Harvard, he was elected to the New York राज्य सभा, where he became a leader of the reform faction of his रिपब्लिकन Party ( the `` GOP '' ).
उसके The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his professional प्रतिष्ठा as a serious historian ; he wrote numerous books on hunting, the outdoors, and current political मुद्दे, as खूब as frontier history.
in 1884, his first wife and his mother died on the same day.
He temporarily left politics and went to the frontier, becoming a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to New York City, he ran for mayor in 1886, finishing third साथ 60,000 मत.
he later gained fame by taking vigorous charge of the city पुलिस.
At the नेशनल level, he थी a leader in civil service reform.
the Spanish–American युद्ध broke आउट in 1898 while Roosevelt was, effectively, running the Department of the Navy.
He promptly resigned and formed the अशिष्ट Riders – a volunteer cavalry regiment that fought in क्यूबा.
the war नायिका was elected governor in 1898 and in 1900 was nominated for vice अध्यक्ष.
He सफलतापूर्वक energized the GOP आधार as a highly दृश्य campaigner to reelect President William McKinley on a platform of high tariffs, the gold standard, imperialism, prosperity at home and victory विदेश.
In 1901, President William McKinley was assassinated and Roosevelt became President.
He attempted to move the रिपब्लिकन Party ( GOP ) toward Progressivism, including trust busting और increased regulation of businesses.
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the vice-presidency ) upon the death of his पूर्ववर्ती, winning the largest percentage of the लोकप्रिय vote since the uncontested election of 1820.
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe his domestic agenda, emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under उसके नीतियों.
As an outdoorsman and naturalist, he promoted the conservation movement.
On the world stage, Roosevelt 's policies यहूद characterized by his slogan, `` बोलो softly and carry a big stick ``.
A cousin is a relative with जिसको a person shares one or more common ancestor ( s ) ( अन्य than a parent, child/descendant, sibling, child/descendant of a सहोदर, or sibling of a parent/ancestor ).
however in आम parlance, `` cousin '' normally specifically अर्थात् `` first cousin ''.
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' हैं प्रयुक्त in the English-speaking संसार to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the व्यापक sense ) and the ancestor they have in common.
Various सरकारी entities have established systems लिये legal use that can more precisely specify kinships with common ancestors existing any number of generations in the past, though common usage often eliminates the degrees and removals और refers to लोगों with common ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` रिश्तेदारों ''.
वेबस्टर is an American हालात comedy that aired on ABC इससे September 16, 1983 जबतक May 8, 1987, और in first-run syndication from सितंबर 21, 1987 until March 10, 1989.
The श्रेणी was created by Stu Silver.
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who, after खोने उसके अभिभावक, is adopted by his NFL -pro गॉडफादर, portrayed by Alex Karras, और his new socialite wife, निभाई by Susan Clark.
The focus was largely on how this impulsively married couple had to adjust to their new lives and sudden parenthood, but it was the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot.
The series was produced by Georgian Bay Ltd., emmanuel Lewis Entertainment Enterprises, inc. ( 1986-1989 ) और Paramount Television.
जैसे NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes, Webster featured a young african-american boy adopted by a white family.
Three types of cell division
कोशिका division is the process by which a जनक cell divides into two or अधिक daughter cells.
कोशिका division usually occurs as part of a larger cell cycle.
In eukaryotes, there are दो पृथक type of cell division : a vegetative division, whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical to the parent कोशिका ( mitosis ), and a reductive कोशिका division, whereby the क्रमांक of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by हाफ, to उपज अगुणित gametes ( meiosis ).
Both of these कोशिका division cycles are जरूरी in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in their life cycle, and both are believed to be present in the last eukaryotic common ancestor Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary परिवर्द्धन, where उनके जेनेटिक सामग्री is segregated equally into दो बेटी कोशिकाएं.
All कोशिका divisions, regardless of organism, are preceded by a single round of DNA replication.
For simple एककोशिकीय organisms such as the amoeba, one cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an entire new organism is निर्मित.
On a larger scale, mitotic कोशिका प्रभाग can create progeny from multicellular organisms, such as plants that grow from cuttings.
Cell प्रभाग also enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop from the one-celled zygote, which itself was produced by cell division from gametes.
और बाद growth, cell division allows for continual construction and repair of the organism.
A human being 's body अनुभवों about 10,000 trillion cell divisions in a lifetime.
Cell division has been modeled by finite subdivision rules.
the primary concern of cell division is the maintenance of the original cell 's genome.
Before division can occur, the genomic information that is stored in chromosomes जरूर be replicated, and the duplicated genome जरूर be अलग cleanly between cells.
a great deal of cellular infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information consistent between `` generations ''.
Mountain ranges of Massachusetts, संयुक्त States.
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones, 23 February 1955, Southampton, Hampshire, England ) is a अंग्रेजों musician, singer and songwriter.
According to the Guinness Book of British Hit Singles & Albums, `` जोन्स is an accomplished singer-songwriter who थी a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop.
Jones, who was equally popular in the U.S., appeared at सजीव Aid ``.
Allmusic journalist, Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds, `` Jones was one of the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop.
His music मिलाया the technology intensive ध्वनि of New Wave with the cheery optimism of hippies और late 1960s pop.
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s, before he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s ''.
the International Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a मोटरसाइकिल रेसिंग event held on the आइल of Man and थी for अनेक years the सबसे prestigious motorcycle race in the संसार.
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix World Championship during the काल 1949–1976 before being transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season.
the आइल of Man TT दौड़ became भाग of the TT Formula 1 चैंपियनशिप from 1977 to 1990 to preserve the event 's रेसिंग status.
From 1989 the racing रै been developed by the Isle of Man Department of Tourism as the Isle of man TT Festival.
The रेस is run in a time-trial format on public roads बंद for रेसिंग by the provisions of an Act of Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ).
The first race was आयोजित on मंगलवार 28 may 1907 and was called the International Auto-Cycle Tourist ट्रॉफी.
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 laps of the St John 's छोटी Course of 15 miles 1,470 yards लिये road-legal touring motorcycles साथ exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals and mud-guards.
the winner of the single-cylinder class, and overall winner of the first event in 1907, was Charlie Collier riding a matchless motorcycle in a time of 4 hours, 8 minutes and 8 सेकेंड at an average race speed of 38.21 mph.
the winner of the twin-cylinder class was Rem Fowler riding a Peugeot engined Norton in a time of 4 hours 21 minutes और 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph.
The ट्रॉफी presented to Charlie Collier as the विजेता of the 1907 Isle of Man tt Race, was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars.
It featured a stylised version of Olympic God Hermes by Giovanni Da Bologna as a चांदी figurine astride a winged wheel.
The trophy was similar in डिज़ाइन to the 18 कैरेट gold Montague Trophy presented to John Napier ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural winner of the आइल of man Tourist Trophy car race in 1905 now ज्ञात as the RAC Tourist ट्रॉफी.
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars Trophy is अभी presented annually to the winner of the Isle of man वरिष्ठ TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the centenary event which ran between 26 May and 8 June 2007 and featured a special Re-enactment of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
The vintage parade of 100 क्लासिक motorcycles for the Centenary Re-enactment on the असली St जॉन 's Short कोर्स थी flagged away by पूर्व World motor-cycle Champion ज्यॉफ ड्यूक.
The first of the participants to be flagged away was the recently लौटी twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the पहला Isle of Man tt Race in 1907.
भी participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy मार्टिन riding a 1938 Triumph Tiger 100 500 cc and other former TT competitors including Alan Cathcart, Sammy Miller, Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment गोद.
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs when people हैं बगैर work और actively seeking work.
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by सब individuals currently in the labor फ़ोर्स.
During periods of recession, an economy usually अनुभवों a relatively high unemployment rate.
According to अंतरराष्ट्रीय Labour Organization report, अधिक than 197 million people globally are out of work or 6 % of the world 's workforce यहूद without a job in 2012.
वहीँ remains considerable theoretical debate regarding the causes, consequences and solutions for बेरोजगारी.
Classical अर्थशास्त्र, New classical economics, and the Austrian School of economics argue कि market mechanisms are reliable means of resolving unemployment.
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside, such as unionization, न्यूनतम मजदूरी कानून, taxes, और other regulations that they अर्जी discourage the hiring of workers.
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment और recommends government interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment दौरान recessions.
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce aggregate माँग for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers.
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers ; these can include financial stimuli, publicly funded job creation, and expansionist monetary नीतियों.
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment, वहीँ are a few categorizations of unemployment that are used to more precisely model the प्रभाव of unemployment within the economic प्रणाली.
The main types of unemployment शामिल structural unemployment which focuses on संरचनात्मक problems in the economy और inefficiencies inherent in श्रमिक markets, including a mismatch between the supply और demand of laborers with necessary skill सेट.
Structural arguments emphasize causes and solutions related to disruptive technologies and globalization.
Discussions of frictional बेरोजगारी focus on voluntary decisions to कार्य based on each individuals ' valuation of their own work and कैसा कि compares to वर्तमान wage rates plus the time और effort required to find a job.
Causes and solutions for frictional unemployment often पता job entry threshold और wage rates.
Behavioral अर्थशास्त्रियों highlight individual biases in निर्णय making, और often involve problems and solutions concerning sticky मजदूरी और efficiency wages.
Collectivism is कोई philosophic, political, religious, economic, or सोशल आउटलुक that emphasizes the interdependence of every human होने in a society or civilization.
Collectivism is a मौलिक cultural element कि exists as the reverse of individualism in human nature ( in the वही way high context संस्कृति exists as the reverse of कम context संस्कृति ).
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion within social groups ( such as an `` in-group '', in what specific context it is defined ) and in some cases, the priority of group goals over individual goals.
Collectivists often focus on community, society, स्वदेश or देश.
it has been used as an तत्व in many different और diverse types of government and political, economic and educational तत्त्वज्ञान throughout इतिहास और सबसे human societies in practice contain elements of दोनो individualism और collectivism.
Some examples of collectivist cultures include India and Japan.
Collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism and vertical collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals, and is यूँ usually based on decentralization and egalitarianism.
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power और on moral और cultural conformity, and is therefore based on centralization and पदानुक्रम.
A सहकारी enterprise would be an example of horizontal collectivism, whereas a military hierarchy would be an example of vertical collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) is an immune mediated disease of the brain.
It प्रायः occurs following a viral infection but may appear following vaccination, bacterial or parasitic संक्रमण, or even appear spontaneously.
as it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is similar to अनेक काठिन्य, and is माना भाग of the Multiple sclerosis borderline diseases.
the incidence रेट is about 8 प्रति 1,000,000 people per year.
Although it occurs in all ages, most reported मामले हैं in children and adolescents, with the average age around 5 to 8 years old.
The mortality rate may be as high as 5 %, full रिकवरी is seen in 50 to 75 % of cases, while up to 70 to 90 % recover with some नाबालिग residual disability.
The average time to recover is one to छह months.
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the brain and spinal cord, particularly in the white matter.
प्रायः these are found in the subcortical and central white matter और cortical gray-white जंक्शन of both दिमागी hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, and स्पाइनल cord, लकिन periventricular white matter और धूसर matter of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may also be शामिल.
जब the patient पीड़ित more than एक demyelinating episode, it is called recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ).
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestion system which functions as an महत्वपूर्ण अंग of the digestive ट्रैक्ट in कुछ animals, सहित vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
It is involved in the second phase of पाचन, following mastication ( chewing ).
the stomach is located between the ग्रासनाल and the small आंत.
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called protease and strong acids to aid in खाना digestion, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( पुकारा segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the छोटी intestines.
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately from stoma ( ), `` मुँह ''.
The words gastro- and gastric ( meaning सम्बन्धित to the stomach ) are both निकला from the Greek word gaster ( ).
1940 Pontiac Special Series 25 woodie
A woodie is a car body style, especially a station wagon, where the rear bodywork is constructed of लकडी फ्रेमवर्क with infill panels of wood or painted metal.
After the demise of actual wood construction, manufacturers प्रयुक्त simulated woodgrain sheet vinyl—sometimes augmented with three-dimensional, अनुकरण framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, wood construction was evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex with a श्रेणी of side and rear आड़ा grooves.
A pearl is a hard object produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc.
बस like the shell of a clam, a pearl is made up of कैल्सियम carbonate in minute crystalline form, which has been deposited in concentric परतों.
The ideal पर्ल is perfectly गोलाकार and smooth, but many other shapes of pearls ( बरॉक pearls ) occur.
The finest quality प्राकृतिक pearls have been highly valued as रत्नों and objects of सौंदर्य for many centuries, और because of this, the word pearl has become a metaphor लिये something बहुत rare, ठीक, admirable, and valuable.
The most मूल्यवान मोती occur spontaneously in the wild, लकिन they are extremely rare.
ये जंगली pearls are referred to as natural मोती.
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels make up the majority of those कि are currently sold.
Imitation pearls are भी widely sold in inexpensive आभूषण, but the quality of their iridescence is usually very poor, and often, artificial pearls are easily distinguished from वास्तविक मोती.
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated primarily for use in jewelry, but in the past they were भी सिले onto lavish clothing.
Pearls have also been कुचल और प्रयुक्त in कॉस्मेटिक्स, medicines, and in paint formulations.
whether जंगली or संस्कारी, gem quality pearls are लगभग सदा nacreous and, as is the interior of the shell that produces them.
However, almost all species of shelled molluscs are capable of producing मोती ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape.
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also under U.S. Federal Trade Commission rules, and are formed in the same way, most of them have no मान, except as curiosities.
Bing ( known previously as Live ढूंढें, Windows सजीव Search, and MSN Search ) is a web search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) from microsoft.
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on may 28, 2009 at the All Things Digital conference in San Diego for रिलीज on June 1.
Notable परिवर्तन include the listing of search suggestions while queries are entered and a list of सम्बन्धित searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
On July 29, 2009, Microsoft and Yahoo ! announced a deal in which Bing would power याहू ! Search.
All Yahoo ! Search वैश्विक ग्राहक and साझेदार हैं expected to have made the transition by early 2012.
in October 2011, Bing announced it was working on new back-end search infrastructure, with the goal of delivering faster and slightly more प्रासंगिक search परिणाम for उपयोक्ता.
Known as `` बाघ '', the new index-serving technology रै been incorporated into bing globally, since August 2011.
In May 2012, Bing घोषित another redesign of its search engine कि includes `` साइडबार '', a social feature that searches users ' सोशल संजाल for information प्रासंगिक to the search क्वैरी.
A diagram showing an I गठन on offense and a 4-3 गठन on defense
in American football, each team रै eleven players on the field at one time.
The specific भूमिका that a player takes on the field is called their position.
Under the modern rules of American football, teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions, that is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the टोली with the ball, who is trying to score ), the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from उन्हें ), and the special टीमों ( जो play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various specific positions exist depending on what the player 's main जॉब is.
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ; ulster-scots : Airish fowk ) हैं an ethnic समूह who originate in Ireland, an island in northwestern Europe.
आयरलैंड has been populated लिये around 9,000 years ( according to पुरातत्व studies, see प्रागैतिहासिक Ireland ).
The Irish people 's earliest पूर्वजो are recorded in legends – they हैं claimed to be descended from groups such as the nemedians, Fomorians, Fir Bolg, Tuatha dé danann and the Milesians.
Lebor gabála Érenn, a book of Irish mythology tells that milesians यहूद स्काइथियन वंशजों.
The प्रमुख groups कि interacted with the Irish in the Middle Ages include the Picts, Scots, and the वाइकिंग्स.
Due to this contact, icelanders हैं noted for having some Irish descent.
The Anglo-Norman आक्रमण of the High Middle आयु, the अंग्रेज़ी plantations और the subsequent अंग्रेज़ी नियम of the country introduced the normans and Flemish into Ireland.
Welsh, Picts, Bretons, and small parties of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons are ज्ञात in आयरलैंड इससे much earlier टाइम्स.
वहीँ have महरूम many notable Irish people throughout history.
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as one of the `` fathers of Europe '', followed by Kilian of Würzburg and vergilius of साल्जबर्ग.
The scientist रॉबर्ट Boyle is considered the `` father of रसायन ``.
Famous आयरिश explorers include Brendan the Navigator, Robert mcclure, अर्नेस्ट Shackleton and Tom crean.
By कुछ accounts, the first European child born in North America had Irish descent on both sides ; and an Irishman was the first European to set पैर on American मृदा in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There are descendants of Irish people living in many western countries, particularly in English-speaking countries.
historically, emigration has been caused by politics, famine और economic issues.
An estimated 50 to 80 million people हैं descendants of आयरिश people, primarily in the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia, Canada and Iceland ; there are भी smaller संख्याएँ in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Jamaica, Barbados, South Africa, New जीलैंड, France, जर्मनी और Brazil.
The largest number of descendants of Irish लोगों live in the United राज्य.
The number of people living in Australia who are of Irish descent is higher, as a प्रतिशत of total population, than that of any other country.
Approximately forty percent of the settlement population of Iceland came from Ireland or Scotland.
The very first inhabitants of Iceland were Irish.
The Hubble Space दूरदर्शी ( HST ) is a space telescope कि थी carried into orbit by a स्पेस Shuttle in 1990 and remains in आपरेशन.
a aperture telescope in low Earth orbit, Hubble 's four main instruments observe in the near पराबैंगनी, visible, and near infrared.
the telescope is named बाद the astronomer Edwin Hubble.
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's atmosphere allows it to take extremely sharp images with almost no background light.
Hubble 's गहन Field have महरूम some of the most detailed visible-light images ever, allowing a deep view into space and time.
Many Hubble observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics, such as accurately determining the rate of विस्तार of the universe.
Although not the first स्पेस दूरदर्शी, Hubble is one of the largest and most बहुमुखी, और is well known as दोनो a vital research tool and a पब्लिक संबंध बून for astronomy.
the HST was built by the संयुक्त States space agency NASA, with contributions from the European Space एजेंसी, और is operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute.
the hst is one of नासा 's Great Observatories, along with the कॉम्पटन Gamma Ray Observatory, the Chandra X-ray Observatory, and the Spitzer Space Telescope.
स्पेस telescopes were proposed as early as 1923.
Hubble was वित्तपोषित in the 1970s, साथ a proposed launch in 1983, लकिन the प्रोजेक्ट थी घिरा by technical delays, budget problems, और the Challenger विपत्ति.
जब finally launched in 1990, scientists found that the main mirror had महरूम ground incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's सामर्थ्य.
The telescope was restored to its intended विशेषता by a servicing मिशन in 1993.
Hubble is the only दूरदर्शी designed to be serviced in space by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four missions repaired, upgraded, and replaced systems on the telescope ; a fifth mission was रद्द on safety grounds following the Columbia विपत्ति.
However, after spirited public चर्चा, नासा administrator माइक griffin approved one final servicing mission, समाप्त in 2009 by स्पेस शटल Atlantis.
The दूरदर्शी is now expected to फलन जबतक at least 2013.
Its scientific successor, the James Webb Space दूरदर्शी ( JWST ), is to be launched in 2018 or possibly बाद.
anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a substance or treatment that reduces inflammation.
Anti-inflammatory दवाएँ make up about हाफ of analgesics, remedying pain by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids, जिससे affect the central बेचैन system.
The Tonight दिखाएँ is a US late-night talk show that has aired on एनबीसी since 1954.
it is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the US and the तीसरा longest-running show on एनबीसी बाद मिलें the Press और आज.
The Tonight दिखाएँ was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ), Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny Carson ( 1962–1992 ), Jay Leno ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), और Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ).
Several guest hosts भी appeared, particularly during the Paar और Carson eras.
The longest-serving मेजबान to date थी Johnny Carson, who hosted The tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The current मेजबान of the show is Jay Leno, जो had previously hosted the show इससे 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1, 2010.
On April 3, 2013, NBC घोषित Jimmy Fallon would become the new host of The Tonight Show.
The tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon will premiere February 24, 2014, the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter ओलंपिक.
SS Andrea Doria.
Pronounced was an समंदर liner for the Italian लकीर ( Società di navigazione Italia ) घर ported in Genoa, Italy, most famous for इसके sinking in 1956, when 52 people died ( 51 from तात्कालिक impact ).
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria, the ship had a gross register tonnage of 29,100 and a capacity of about 1,200 passengers and 500 crew.
For a country attempting to rebuild its economy और reputation after World War II, Andrea Doria थी an icon of Italian national pride.
Of all Italy 's जहाजों at the time, Andrea Doria थी the largest, तीव्रतम और supposedly safest.
Launched on 16 June 1951, the जलयान undertook its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953.
On 25 July 1956, while the Andrea Doria was approaching the coast of Nantucket, मैसाचुसेट्स, bound for New यॉर्क City, the eastbound of the स्वीडिश American Line collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters.
struck in the side, the top-heavy Andrea डोरिया immediately started to list severely to स्टारबोर्ड, जिससे left half of its lifeboats unusable.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant loss of life, but the efficiency of the ship 's technical design allowed it to stay afloat for over 11 hours बाद the ramming.
the good behavior of the crew, improvements in communications और the रैपिड response of other ships averted a disaster similar in scale to कि of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers and crew यहूद rescued and survived, जबकि 46 people died as a consequence of the collision.
The evacuated luxury लाइनर capsized और sank the following morning.
This accident remains the worst maritime disaster to occur in United States waters since the sinking of the in 1915.
the incident और its aftermath were heavily covered by the news media.
While the बचाव efforts were दोनो successful और commendable, the cause of the collision साथ the स्टॉकहोम and the loss of Andrea Doria उत्पन्न much interest in the media और many lawsuits.
Largely because of an out-of-court उपनिवेश agreement between the two शिपिंग कंपनियाँ during hearings तत्काल after the विपत्ति, no determination of the कारण ( s ) was ever formally published.
हालांकि greater blame appeared initially to fall on the Italian लाइनर, more recent discoveries have indicated that a misreading of radar on the स्वीडिश ship may have initiated the collision course, अग्रणी to errors on both ships.
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic यात्री vessel to sink before वायुयान became the preferred method of travel.
Dialysis tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of सेमi- or partially permeable membrane tubing made from regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be प्रयुक्त for diffusion with solutes or परासरण if प्रयुक्त with जल only.
Osmosis is when जल passes through a semi-permeable layer to reach equilibrium.
Diffusion, on the अन्य hand, allows the movement of molecules from high concentration to low विशेषज्ञता.
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable membrane or layer if the अणु is small enough to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore.
This usually results with the प्रभाव of diffusion through a membrane तभी really affects small molecules, and almost never larger molecules.
Dialysis tubing is used in clinical circumstances to ensure a filtered flow of अणुओं, preventing the प्रवाह of larger solute अणुओं.
छोटी अणुओं can be `` washed '' आउट of a solution जिससे is pumped through the tubing into a solvent, usually water, which surrounds it और in जिससे they can be flushed दूर.
in demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes, a solution containing several types of molecules, usually glucose और starch, is placed into a semi-permeable dialysis bag, such as a cellulose झिल्ली with छिद्र, and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band.
The sealed डायलिसिस थैला is placed in a container of a different solution, or water.
Molecules small enough to pass through the tubing ( water, salts, monosaccharides, and other small molecules ) tend to move into or आउट of the dialysis थैला in the direction of decreasing concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
Larger molecules ( such as प्रोटीन, or polysaccharides ) कि have dimensions significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained अंदर the dialysis bag.
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic समाधान ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is संदर्भित to ) will cross a semi-permeable membrane, जैसे डायलिसिस tubing, into a hypertonic solution ( a समाधान that has a higher solute विशेषज्ञता than the solution it is referenced to ) in an attempt to reach equilibrium, जहाँ the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium.
Mercury प्रयोगशाला thermometer
A thermometer ( from the Greek, thermos, meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον, metron, `` measure '' ) is a device कि उपायों तापमान or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles.
A थर्मामीटर has दो important elements : the temperature sensor ( e.g. the बल्ब on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) in which some physical change occurs with temperature, plus some अर्थात् of converting this physical बदलें into a numerical मान ( e.g. the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ).
There are many types and many uses for thermometers, as detailed नीचे in भाग of this article.
Snow White और the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937 अमरीकी animated musical fantasy film उत्पादित by Walt Disney and released by rko Radio Pictures.
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm, it is the first full-length cel animated feature film and the earliest in the Walt डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड Classics श्रेणी.
The story was adapted by storyboard कलाकारों Dorothy Ann Blank, Richard Creedon, मेरिल de मारिस, Otto Englander, Earl Hurd, लंड Rickard, Ted Sears and Webb स्मिथ.
David Hand was the supervising निदेशक, while William Cottrell, Wilfred Jackson, Larry Morey, perce pearce, और बेन Sharpsteen निर्देशित the film 's individual sequences.
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937, followed by a nationwide release on February 4, 1938, and साथ international आय of $ 8 लाख during its initial release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing sound फिल्मी at the time.
The popularity of the फिल्मी रै led to it being re-released theatrically many times, until इसके home video release in the 1990s.
Adjusted for inflation, it is one of the top ten performers at the North American box office.
at the 11th Academy Awards, Walt डिज़्नी थी awarded an honorary Oscar, and the film was nominated for Best Musical Score.
It was added to the United States National Film Registry in 1989 and is ranked in the American Film Institute 's सूची of the 100 greatest अमरीकी films, who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008.
Disney 's लो on the fairy टेल has had a big cultural प्रभाव, resulting in a popular theme पार्क attraction, a video game, and a Broadway musical.
Childbirth, labour, delivery, birth, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a pregnancy काल with the expulsion of एक or more नवजात infants from a woman 's uterus.
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening और dilation of the cervix, descent and जनम of the शिशु, and जनम of the placenta.
In many cases and साथ increasing frequency, प्रसव is achieved through induction of labor or caesarean section, which is the removal of the neonate through a surgical incision in the abdomen, बल्कि than through vaginal birth.
प्रसव by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S. from 1996 to 2006, and comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. और Canada.
With respect to induced labor, more than 22 % of women undergo induction of labour in the संयुक्त States.
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births और elective cesarean can be harmful to the fetus and neonate as खूब as harmful or बगैर benefit to the mother, and have established strict guidelines for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks.
Viva la Bam was an MTV & Viva दिखाएँ which followed Bam Margera and his crew as they undertook challenges, performed stunts और traveled the world.
The show ran for 5 seasons between 2003 और 2005.
Flushed Away is a 2006 british/american computer animated action / adventure comedy फिल्मी निर्देशित by David Bowers and Sam Fell.
It थी बना in the partnership between Aardman Animations and DreamWorks Animation, और is Aardman 's first completely computer-animated विशेषता as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The film stars the voice talents of Hugh जैकमैन, Kate Winslet, Andy Serkis, Bill Nighy, Ian McKellen, Shane Richie and जां Reno.
The story was by sam Fell, Peter Lord, लंड Clement, and Ian La Frenais, and the screenplay was written by Dick Clement, Ian la Frenais, Christopher Lloyd, Joe Keenan, and William Davies.
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006, and in UK on December 1 2006, and थी वितरित by Paramount Pictures, except for Switzerland, Spain, and the Netherlands, which were handled by सार्वभौमिक तस्वीरें.
The अटलांटा Braves are a professional baseball team based in Atlanta.
The Braves हैं a member of the Eastern Division of प्रमुख लीग Baseball 's National League.
The braves have played in Turner Field चूंकि 1997.
the `` Braves '' name, which थी first used in 1912, originates from a term for a Native American warrior.
वे are nicknamed `` the bravos '', and प्रायः referred to as `` America 's Team `` in reference to the team 's games होने broadcast on the nationally available TBS इससे the 1970s until 2007, gaining a wide fanbase.
From 1991 to 2005 the braves यहूद one of the most कामयाब franchises in baseball, जीतना प्रभाग titles an unprecedented 14 consecutive times in that period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in which there यहूद no official division champions ).
The braves won the NL West 1991–93 and the nl East 1995–2005, और returned to the playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010.
the Braves उन्नत to the World Series five times in the 1990s, winning the title in 1995.
Since their debut in the National लीग in 1876, the franchise has won 16 divisional titles, 17 National लीग pennants, as well as three World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves, and in 1995 in Atlanta.
the Braves हैं the only MLB मताधिकार to have जीती the World Series in तीन different home cities.
The club is one of the नेशनल League 's दो remaining charter franchises ( the other being the Chicago शावक ) और was founded in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1871 as the Boston Red Stockings ( नहीं to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ).
They are considered `` the oldest continuously playing team in प्रमुख North अमरीकी खेल. ''
There is an argument as to who is actually पुरानी because although the Cubs are a full season `` older '' ( formed as the Chicago White Stockings in 1870 ) शिकागो lost two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire, thus the braves have played more consecutive seasons.
After various name changes ( such as the Boston Beaneaters ), the team operated as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century.
In 1953, the टोली moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin and became the Milwaukee Braves, followed by the move to अटलांटा in 1966.
the team 's tenure in Atlanta is famous for Hank Aaron breaking बेब रुथ 's career home run record in 1974, हालांकि the majority of Aaron 's home रनों यहूद hit while the team was in Milwaukee.
उसके record stood जबतक 2007, when San Francisco left क्षेत्ररक्षक Barry Bonds broke the record.
the पत्ते of a beech tree
3d rendering of a μCT scan of a पत्ता piece, resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
a leaf is an अंग of a vascular संयंत्र, as पारिभाषित in botanical terms, and in particular in plant morphology.
Foliage is a mass noun that refers to leaves as a feature of plants.
Typically a leaf is a पतला, flattened अंग borne above ground और specialized for photosynthesis, but अनेक types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat ( लिये example अनेक succulent leaves और conifers ), some हैं not above ground ( such as bulb scales ), and कुछ हैं without major photosynthetic function ( consider for example cataphylls, spines, और cotyledons ).
Conversely, many structures of non-vascular plants, or भी of some lichens, जिससे हैं not plants at सब ( in the भाव of being members of the kingdom Plantae ), do look and function much like leaves.
furthermore, several structures found in vascular plants dekh like leaves but are not दरअसल leaves ; they differ from leaves in their structures और origins.
Examples शामिल phyllodes, cladodes, and phylloclades.
Title card for the 1937 Our Gang comedy Rushin ' Ballet.
Our Gang ( also known as The Little दुष्टों or एचएएल रोच 's दुष्टों ) are a series of American कॉमेडी short films about a समूह of poor neighborhood children और their adventures.
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach, the श्रेणी is noted लिये showing children behaving in a relatively natural way, as Roach and original director Robert F. mcgowan worked to film the unaffected, raw nuances apparent in नियमित children rather than have them imitate वयस्क acting styles.
In जोड, Our Gang notably put boys, लड़कियों, whites and blacks together in a group as बराबरी, कुछ that `` broke new ground, '' according to फिल्मी historian Leonard Maltin.
Such a thing had never been done before in cinema but has since been repeated after the success of Our Gang.
The first production at the Roach studio in 1922 was a श्रेणी of मूक छोटी subjects.
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( mgm ) in 1927, and परिवर्तित the series to ध्वनि in 1929, the श्रेणी took off even further.
उत्पादन continued at the Roach studio until 1938, when the श्रेणी was sold to MGM, who then continued producing the comedies until 1944.
The Our Gang series includes a कुल of 220 shorts and one feature film, सामान्य Spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang trademark following their purchase of the production rights, the 80 Roach-produced `` talkies '' were syndicated for टेलीविज़न under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955.
दोनो Roach 's The Little Rascals पैकेज ( now owned by CBS टेलीविज़न Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package ( now owned by Warner Bros. Entertainment ) have चूंकि remained in syndication, with periodic new productions based on the shorts surfacing over the सालो, including a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures.
Zacharias Janssen ( भी zacharias जानसन or sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker इससे Middelburg संबद्ध with the invention of the पहला optical telescope.
Janssen is sometimes also credited for inventing the first truly compound microscope.
However, the origin of the microscope, बस like the origin of the telescope, is a matter of debate.
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater lake in the Sierra Nevada of the United States.
at a surface उन्नयन of, it is located along the किनारा between कैलिफ़ोर्निया and Nevada, west of Carson City.
झील Tahoe is the largest alpine lake in North America.
Its depth is, बनाना it the United State 's second-deepest ( the deepest is crater Lake in ऑरेगॉन, being deeper, at ).
Additionally, झील Tahoe is listed as the 26th largest lake by volume in the world at.
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago और is a भाग of the Lake Tahoe जलाशय साथ the modern lake being shaped during the बर्फ ages.
It is known for the clarity of its जल and the panorama of surrounding mountains on all sides.
The area surrounding the lake is also referred to as Lake Tahoe, or simply Tahoe.
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist attraction in both Nevada and California.
It is home to a number of ski रिसॉर्ट, summer outdoor recreation, and tourist attractions.
Snow and स्कीइंग are a significant part of the area 's economy और प्रतिष्ठा.
Mountain and lake scenery are attractions throughout the year.
The Nevada side also includes large casinos.
Highways provide year-round access from Reno, Carson City, और Sacramento.
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh amendment 's certification in the National Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's certification
Page 3 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
the Twenty-seventh amendment ( Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law कि increases or decreases the सैलरी of members of the Congress इससे taking effect until the प्रारंभ of the next नियत of शर्तें of office for प्रतिनिधि.
it is the most हाल amendment to the United States Constitution.
It was submitted to the states for ratification in 1789 and was adopted in 1992.
“First वे आए... ” is a famous statement and उत्तेजक poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) about the sloth of German intellectuals following the Nazis ' rise to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets, group after group.
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was निर्मित ; the content of the quotation may have been presented differently by niemöller on different occasions.
This list of islands by area includes all islands in the संसार greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) और several other islands over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending order by area.
For comparison, महाद्वीपों हैं also shown.
Four तिहाई logo
The Four Thirds system is a मानक created by Olympus और Kodak for digital single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that, with डिजिटल cameras and lenses available from multiple manufacturers, allows for the इंटरचेंज of lenses and bodies from different manufacturers.
seems to cover the मानक.
Proponents describe it as an open standard, but companies may तभी use it under a non-disclosure agreement.
नापसंद older slr systems, Four Thirds has been designed from the मैदान up to be entirely डिजिटल.
Many lenses are extensively computerized, to the point that Olympus offers firmware updates लिये many of them.
लेंस design has been tailored to the requirements of digital sensors, most notably through telecentric designs.
The size of the सेंसर is significantly छोटी than for most DSLRs and this implies that lenses, especially telephoto lenses, can be smaller.
For उदाहरण, a चार Thirds lens with a 300 mm focal length would cover about the same angle of view as a 600 mm focal लंबाई lens लिये the 35 mm film standard, and is correspondingly more कॉम्पैक्ट.
Thus, the Four Thirds System has crop फ़ैक्टर ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2, और while this enables longer फोकल length लिये greater आवर्धन, it does n't सहायता the manufacture of चौड़ी angle lenses.
The image sensor स्वरूप, generally intermediate between those of larger SLRs and छोटी compact cameras, generally gives levels of cost, performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes.
HVAC systems use वेंटिलेशन air ducts installed throughout a building to supply conditioned air to a room through outlet vents, पुकारा diffusers ; and ducts to हटाएँ air through return-air grilles.
HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air conditioning ) is the technology of indoor और automotive environmental सुकून.
HVAC system डिज़ाइन is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, based on the principles of thermodynamics, द्रव mechanics, and ऊष्मा transfer.
प्रशीतन is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR, or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( ऐसे as the designation of HACR-rated सर्किट breakers ).
HVAC is महत्वपूर्ण in the design of medium to विशाल औद्योगिक and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments such as aquariums, where सुरक्षित and healthy building शर्तें are regulated with respect to temperature and humidity, using fresh air from outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught system, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, लागू to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
हीटिंग, ventilating, and एयर conditioning is based on inventions and discoveries बना by Nikolay lvov, Michael फैराडे, Willis Carrier, Reuben Trane, James जूल, William Rankine, Sadi Carnot, और अनेक अन्य.
the invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial क्रान्ति, and new methods of modernization, उच्चतर efficiency, और system control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide.
The तीन central functions of heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning हैं interrelated, विशेषकर with the need to provide थर्मल comfort and acceptable indoor air quality within उचित संस्थापना, operation, and मेंटेनेंस लागत.
hvac systems can provide ventilation, reduce air infiltration, and maintain pressure relationships between spaces.
The अर्थात् of air डिलीवरी and हटाना from spaces is known as room air distribution.
the starting point in carrying आउट an estimate both for cooling and heating depends on the exterior climate and आंतरिक specified शर्तें.
However before taking up the heat load calculation, it is necessary to find भैस air requirements for each area in detail, as pressurization is an important consideration.
In modern buildings the design, संस्थापना, and control systems of these functions are integrated into one or more HVAC systems.
लिये very छोटी buildings, contractors normally capacity इंजीनियर और चुनें HVAC systems and equipment.
For larger buildings, building services designers और engineers, such as mechanical, architectural, or building सेवाएं engineers analyze, design, and specify the HVAC systems, and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them.
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the installations are normally required for all sizes of buildings.
The HVAC उद्योग is a worldwide enterprise, with roles सहित operation और मेंटेनेंस, प्रणाली design and निर्माण, equipment manufacturing and बिक्री, and in शिक्षा and research.
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC उपकरण, लकिन regulating and standards organizations such as HARDI, ASHRAE, SMACNA, ACCA, Uniform Mechanical कोड, International Mechanical Code, and amca have been established to support the उद्योग and encourage high standards and उपलब्धि.
Royal Navy Commander James बंध, CMG, RNVR, is a fictional character created by अंग्रेजों पत्रकार and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
He is the protagonist of the James Bond series of novels, films, comics and video games.
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two छोटी story collections पहले his death, although the last दो books— the Man with the Golden गन and octopussy and the जीना Daylights —were published posthumously.
The Bond अक्षर is a Secret सेवा agent, code number 007, residing in London लकिन active internationally.
Bond थी a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom फ्लेमिंग knew during his सेवा in the Naval Intelligence Division during World War II, to whom Fleming added his own style and a क्रमांक of his अपना tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated इससे American ornithologist James बंध.
Bond रै a number of character traits which run throughout the books, including an enjoyment of गाड़ियाँ, a love of food and drink, और an average intake of sixty custom-made सिगरेट a day.
चूंकि Fleming 's death in 1964, वहीँ have महरूम other authorised लेखक of Bond material, including John Gardner, who wrote चौदह novels and two novelizations and Raymond Benson, who wrote six novels, three novelizations and तीन short stories.
There have also been three authors who wrote one book प्रत्येक, किंग्सले Amis ( लिखने as Robert markham ), Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver.
Additionally a series of novels based on Bond 's youth— Young Bond —was written by Charlie Higson.
As spin-offs from the literary works, there was a television adaptation of the first novel, Casino Royale, in which Bond थी played as an American एजेंट.
A कॉमिक strip series also ran in the Daily एक्स्प्रेस समाचारपत्र.
There have also been twenty-five बंध films ; seven actors have played Bond in these films.
`` प्रकृति Boy '' is a song by Eden Ahbez, published in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy... who wandered बहुत दूर '' only to learn that `` the greatest thing... was बस to love और be loved in return ''.
Nat किंग कोल 's 1948 recording of the सोंग was a major hit and `` Nature Boy '' has since become a pop and jazz मानक, with dozens of major artists interpreting the song.
Louisiana ( or ;, ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a राज्य located in the southern प्रदेश of the United States of America.
Louisiana is the 31st सबसे extensive और the 25th सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
Its capital is Baton Rouge and largest city is New Orleans.
Louisiana is the तभी state in the U.S. with political subdivisions termed parishes, which are local government 's समतुल्य to counties.
The largest parish by population is East Baton Rouge Parish, and the largest by जमीन area is Cameron Parish.
Much of the state 's lands were formed from sediment washed down the Mississippi River, leaving enormous deltas और vast areas of तटीय marsh and swamp.
These contain a rich southern biota ; typical examples include birds such as ibis and egrets.
There हैं also many प्रजाति of पेड़ मेंढक, and fish such as sturgeon and paddlefish.
In more elevated areas, fire is a प्राकृतिक process in the लैंडस्केप, and has produced extensive areas of longleaf pine वन and wet savannas.
These support an exceptionally large number of plant प्रजाति, including many species of orchids और carnivorous plants.
कुछ Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural, multilingual विरासत, being so strongly influenced by an admixture of 18th-century French, Spanish, देशी अमरीकी ( Indian ) and African संस्कृतियों that they are माना to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
Before the American खरीदें of the territory, the current louisiana State था महरूम both a Spanish and French colony.
In addition, the पैटर्न of development included importing numerous African स्लेव in the 18th सदी, with अनेक इससे the same region of West Africa, यूँ concentrating their संस्कृति.
In the post-Civil युद्ध environment, Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for anglicization, and in 1915, English was made the only official भाषा of the state.
Women 's rights हैं the अधिकारों and entitlements claimed for women and girls of many societies worldwide.
In some स्थान these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, and behaviour, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
वे differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women और girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly संबद्ध with notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily अखंडता and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to मेला wages or equal अदा ; to own प्रॉपर्टी ; to education ; to serve in the सैन्य or be conscripted ; to डालें into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
The कानून of science or scientific laws are statements that describe, predict, and perhaps explain why, a range of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature.
The term `` law '' has विविध usage in many cases : सन्निकट, accurate, broad or narrow theories, in all natural scientific disciplines ( physics, chemistry, biology, geology, astronomy etc. ).
An analogous term लिये a वैज्ञानिक law is a principle.
Scientific laws:
summarize a large collection of facts determined by experiment into a single statement,
can प्रायः be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation, or at least stated in a single sentence, so that it can be used to भविष्यवाणी the outcome of an experiment, दिए the आरंभिक, boundary, and other physical conditions of the प्रक्रियाओं which take place,
are strongly supported by empirical evidence - they are scientific knowledge कि प्रयोग have repeatedly verified ( और never falsified ).
Their accuracy does not change when new theories are worked out, but rather the scope of application, चूंकि the equation ( if any ) representing the विधि does नहीं बदलें.
as साथ other scientific knowledge, they do not have निरपेक्ष certainty like गणितीय theorems or पहचान, और it is always possible लिये a law to be overturned by future observations.
are often quoted as a fundamental controlling influence rather than a वर्णन of observed facts.
I.e. `` the कानून of motion require that ''
कानून differ from hypotheses and postulates, जिससे are proposed during the scientific process before and during validation by experiment और observation.
These are not laws चूंकि they have not been verified to the same degree and may not be sufficiently general, although they may lead to the formulation of laws.
A विधि is a अधिक solidified and औपचारिक statement, distilled from दोहराया experiment.
Although the concepts of a law or principle in प्रकृति is borderline to philosophy, and presents the depth to which mathematics can describe nature, वैज्ञानिक laws हैं considered इससे a scientific perspective and follow the scientific method ; they `` serve their purpose '' rather than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` कथन of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For example, whether a विधि `` refers to reality '' is a philosophical समस्या, rather than वैज्ञानिक.
Fundamentally, all scientific laws follow from physics, laws which occur in other sciences ultimately follow from शारीरिक laws.
Often, इससे mathematically fundamental viewpoints, universal स्थिरांक emerge इससे scientific laws.
The launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on 10 नवम्बर 2006 चिह्नित the second major seventh generation entertainment system to be released.
The system थी released सात days later on 17 November in the United राज्य.
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray disc player ; the device was launched in European and other संसार markets in the पहला half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams और grainger ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the CBS soap operas The यंग and the Restless और The Bold और the Beautiful, portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman.
She made उसके debut during the episode airing on January 21, 1983.
In 1992, Bregman began making sporadic appearances on The बिंदास and the Beautiful, later resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995.
Following a guest appearance in 2000, bregman returned to The Young and the Restless on अगस्त 24, 2001, बाकी on recurring status.
In 2013, it was announced that Bregman था महरूम लगाई on अनुबंध.
Much of Lauren 's इतिहास has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams, स्कॉट Grainger, Sr., और Michael Baldwin among many others causing a fierce rivalry साथ Traci Abbott Connolly.
Lauren is भी famous लिये her long, हिंसक rivalry साथ Sheila कार्टर.
the 2010 NBA फाइनल was the नेशनल Basketball Association ( NBA ) championship series for the 2009–10 season.
the best-of-seven playoff was लडे between the Los Angeles लेकर्स, champions of the Western Conference and defending NBA champions, and the Boston Celtics, champions of the पूर्वी Conference.
The Lakers पराजित the Celtics, four खेल to three, to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th edition of the championship श्रेणी was played between June 3 and June 17, was broadcast on एबीसी, और was watched by an average of 18.1 लाख people.
The Celtics earned their berth into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic प्रभाग.
The Lakers जीती the Pacific Division to earn their berth.
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Miami Heat in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference पहला गोलाकार, the Cleveland cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals, और defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals.
The Lakers reached the NBA फाइनल by defeating the Oklahoma नगर थंडर in the best-of-seven Western Conference First Round, the यूटा Jazz in the best-of-seven Western Conference Semifinals, and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals.
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the प्रमुख League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game format, साथ the Lakers possessing home-court advantage as a reward for finishing with better regular season रिकार्ड than the Celtics.
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant, pau gasol, और Ron artest brought the Lakers close to विजय in Game 1.
a record breaking performance from Ray Allen 's आठ three-point baskets ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 अंक in the fourth quarter helped the Lakers win Game 3.
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s reserves, while Paul Pierce led the team to a Game 5 win with 27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor.
The Lakers avoided elimination by winning a decisive Game 6 with 24 points contributed by their bench.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points जल्दी in the तीसरा quarter, the Lakers rallied and won their second consecutive चैंपियनशिप by लेने over an exciting Game 7 aided by late contributions on offense by Pau Gasol and Artest और rebounding.
Bryant was named सबसे Valuable Player of the Finals लिये his second consecutive trophy.
This was the first NBA फाइनल to go the full seven games since और only the fourth since the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in.
The Laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships ( Five in Minneapolis, 11 in Los एंजिल्स ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships.
the NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' स्वरूप in 1949 Minneapolis लेकर्स defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis defeated the नई York Knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 Minneapolis defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 खेल to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3.
The NBA would return to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey League seven game series format until 1985.
ब्लैक pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, cultivated लिये its fruit, which is usually सूखी and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn जब dried, is approximately in diameter, dark रेड when fully mature, और, जैसे सब drupes, contains a सिंगल seed.
peppercorns, and the मैदान pepper derived from उन्हें, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( cooked और dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south इण्डिया, और is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the संसार 's largest producer and निर्यातक of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has been प्रयुक्त since antiquity for both its फ्लेवर and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's most traded spice.
It is one of the most आम spices added to European cuisine and its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, नहीं to be confused with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the modern world, often paired with नमक.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric भिन्न of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with प्रत्येक दिल beat or हृदय cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic वाल्व into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful गणितीय expression धमक EF.
Noninvasive cardiac इमेजिंग has become a worldwide utility enabling study of cardiac प्रदर्शन reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a mathematical product allowed by हृदय imaging.
as a mathematical term, Ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac आउटपुट.
Dedicated प्रौद्योगिकी such as Echocardiography, Computed टोमोग्राफी, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively allowed clinically relevant mathematics regarding ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of the prosecution in देशों साथ either the common विधि adversarial system, or the civil law inquisitorial system.
the prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting the case in a criminal trial against an individual अभियुक्त of breaking the law.
Strawberry shortcake most commonly means a dessert in the shortcake family of cakes.
Strawberry shortcake may also refer to:
Strawberry shortcake, a character and मताधिकार created by American Greetings
The shortened शीर्षक of स्ट्रॉबेरी on the Shortcake, a Japanese romance movie.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib इब्न Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), also transliterated as Muhammad ( ), was a religious, political, and military leader from मक्का who एकीकृत Arabia into a single धार्मिक polity under Islam.
he is believed by Muslims और Bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of परमेश्वर.
Muhammad is almost universally considered by Muslims as the last prophet sent by God for mankind.
non-muslims regard Muhammad as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider उसे to be the restorer of an unaltered असली monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian नगर of Mecca, he was अनाथ at an early age and brought up under the care of उसके ताऊ Abu Talib.
He later worked mostly as a merchant, as खूब as a shepherd, and was पहला married by age 25.
होने in the आदत of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported that it was वहीँ, at age 40, that he received उसके first revelation इससे God.
Three years after इस event Muhammad started उपदेश these खुलासे publicly, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that पूरा `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, और that he himself was a नबी and messenger of God, in the same रग as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and was met with hostility इससे some meccan tribes ; he और his followers यहूद treated harshly.
to एस्केप persecution, Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then ज्ञात as Yathrib ) in the साल 622.
This इवेंट, the Hijra, marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes, उसके अनुसरणकर्ता, जो by then had grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He नष्ट the pagan idols in the नगर and then sent his followers out to destroy सब of the बाकी pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
in 632, a few महीने बाद returning to Medina from The Farewell यात्राएं, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam, and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity.
the revelations ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving जबतक his death – रूप the verses of the Quran, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of God '' and around जिससे the religion is आधारित.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are भी upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad और other नबियों of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever their names हैं mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom और premodern times were largely negative, appraisals in आधुनिक history have been far less so.
The Great Books ( second edition )
ग्रेट Books of the Western World is a series of books originally published in the United States in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the Great Books in a single package of 54 आयतन.
the series is now in its दूसरी edition और contains 60 आयतन.
The original editors of the series chose तीन criteria for inclusion : a book must be प्रासंगिक to contemporary issues, and not only important in its historical context ; it must बदला rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors.
Books were not chosen on the basis of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness, historical influence, or the editors ' अनुबंध with the views expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a song written and recorded by JJ Cale in 1976, लकिन also known as a cover version अंकित by eric Clapton.
Allmusic काल्स the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] सबसे enduringly popular hits '' and notes that `` even for an artist like Clapton with a huge body of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best. ''
Glyn Johns, who had previously worked with the जो, led zeppelin and The Rolling Stones, produced the Clapton recording, which was released on Clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
The सजीव version of `` Cocaine '', from the Just One रात्रि album अंकित in टोकियो, charted on the Billboard Hot 100 as the B-side of `` Tulsa समय ``, which was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of Cale 's songs recorded by Clapton, including `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' लाइट ''.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial सामान्य Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of पर्ल Harbor ) was a आश्चर्य military स्ट्राइक conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at पर्ल Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from दखल with military क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia विरूद्ध overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The आधार was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters, bombers and torpedo planes in two waves, शुभारम्भ from six aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. नेवी battleships were damaged, with चार being sunk.
Two of these यहूद later raised, and with the remaining four repaired, six battleships returned to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. aircraft were नष्ट ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important आधार installations such as the power station, shipyard, मेंटेनेंस, and ईंधन and torpedo भंडार facilities, as well as the submarine piers और headquarters building ( भी home of the प्रज्ञा section ) were not attacked.
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft और five midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One Japanese sailor थी captured.
The attack आए as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters.
The following day ( December 8 ), the United States घोषित war on जापानी.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, which had been strong, disappeared.
clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance.
Subsequent operations by the u.S. prompted Germany and Italy to घोषित war on the U.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the u.S. the same day.
There were numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents लिये unannounced military action by जापानी.
However, the lack of any औपचारिक चेतावनी, particularly while negotiations were still जाहिर ongoing, led अध्यक्ष Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim दिसम्बर 7, 1941, `` a date which होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of Bravo 's successful Project Runway, a reality competition for fashion designers.
ऋतु 2 began airing on December 7, 2005.
Following a nationwide search earlier in the साल, sixteen designers were चुनी as semi-finalists and brought to नई York नगर in June, 2005.
After the first challenge, called `` Road To The Runway '', चौदह went on to compete as finalists.
The winning designer, Chloe Dao, received $ 100,000 in seed money to सहायता launch her own line, a 2007 शनि Sky roadster, a स्प्रेड in ELLE magazine, and a mentorship with the Banana Republic Design टोली.
Winning alongside Dao was her model, Grace kelsey, who received the elle Magazine स्प्रेड.
Michael kors and Nina Garcia returned as न्यायाधीशों for the second season.
the चौथी judging seat rotated each week, based on the challenge.
Tim Gunn, fashion कुर्सी at पार्सन्स The New School for Design, returned as a mentor for the designers.
Kara Janx later appeared in Project रनवे : All सितारों in 2012, where she finished 7th out of 13.
andrae Gonzalo, in the same year, competed in the दूसरी season of the All Stars edition placing 10th out of 13.
An example of a heraclius खच्चर
In numismatics, a mule is a सिक्का or पदक minted with obverse and reverse डिजाइन नहीं normally seen on the same piece.
These can be जानबूझकर or उत्पादित by error.
This प्रकार of गलती is highly sought after, और उदाहरण can लाने steep prices इससे collectors.
The earliest mules are found among ancient Greek and Roman coins.
Opinion is विभाजित between those who think that they are accidental, the result of an गलत combination of a new die with एक that had officially been withdrawn from use, or the work of coiners working with dies चुराया from an official mint, perhaps at a समय when one of them should have महरूम destroyed.
The name derives इससे the mule, the hybrid offspring of a horse and a donkey, due to such a सिक्का having two sides intended for different coins, much as a mule has parents of two different species.
इस page दस्तावेज़ the tornadoes and tornado outbreaks of 2010.
The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S., but they can occur almost anywhere अंतर्गत the right conditions.
A lesser number occur बाहर the U.S., most notably in भाग of neighboring southern Canada दौरान the उत्तरी Hemisphere 's summer season, but are also ज्ञात in South अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, Asia, और Australia.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United States in 2010 ( of जिससे at least 1,266 यहूद confirmed ), with 45 confirmed fatalities.
elsewhere in the world, 11 people were killed in tornadoes, six in Argentina, three in the Bahamas, one in बांग्लादेश, and one in जर्मनी.
The year was near औसत for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring period, however such changed बाद a huge upswing starting in late अप्रैल and a व्यस्त late वसन्त and summer काल.
the autumn months were थोड़ा above average.
a lymphocyte is a type of white रक्त cell in the vertebrate प्रतिरक्षा system.
अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes and छोटी lymphocytes.
विशाल granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells and b कोशिकाएं.
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's कार्य automation framework, consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting language built on.NET Framework.
PowerShell provides full access to COM and WMI, enabling administrators to perform प्रशासनिक कार्य on both local and remote Windows systems.
In PowerShell, administrative tasks हैं generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ), which हैं specialized.NET classes implementing a particular operation.
Sets of cmdlets may be combined साथ in scripts, executables ( which are standalone applications ), or by instantiating regular.NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ).
These work by accessing data in different data stores, like the filesystem or registry, which are made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers.
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting API with which the Windows powershell runtime can be embedded inside other applications.
These अनुप्रयोग can then use Windows PowerShell कार्यक्षमता to implement निश्चित operations, सहित those exposed via the आलेखीय interface.
This capability has been used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as PowerShell cmdlets and providers and implement the आलेखीय management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the जरुरी cmdlets.
Other Microsoft अनुप्रयोग including Microsoft SQL Server 2008 also expose उनके management interface via PowerShell cmdlets.
साथ PowerShell, graphical interface-based management अनुप्रयोग on Windows are layered on top of खिड़कियाँ PowerShell.
A PowerShell scripting interface for Windows products is mandated by the Common अभियान्त्रिकी Criteria.
Windows powershell includes its अपना extensive, console-based help, similar to man pages in Unix shells, via the get-help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie एंड्रयूज, Dick Van Dyke, David Tomlinson, और Glynis Johns, produced by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी, and based on the Mary Poppins किताबे series by P. L. Travers.
The film थी directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill Walsh and Don dagradi, with गीतों by the Sherman Brothers.
it was shot at Walt Disney Studios in Burbank, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
जूली Andrews won the अकादमी Award for Best Actress लिये उसके performance as Mary Poppins and the फिल्मी also won ऑस्कर for Best Film Editing, Original म्यूज़िक Score, Best Song for `` Chim Chim cher-ee '' और Best Visual प्रभाव, and प्राप्त a total of 13 nominations.
A स्टोरी arc is an विस्तारित or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media ऐसे as television, comic books, comic स्ट्रिप्स, boardgames, वीडियो games, and in कुछ cases, films.
On a television program, for example, the story would unfold over many एपीसोड.
In television, the use of the story चाप is much अधिक common in dramas than in comedies, विशेषकर in soap operas.
Webcomics हैं more likely to उपयोग स्टोरी arcs than newspaper comics, as most web comics have readable archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on.
हालांकि story arcs have existed for दशकों, the term `` स्टोरी arc '' was coined in 1988 in संबंध to the television series wiseguy, and was quickly adapted for अन्य उपयोग.
Many American comic book series are now written in four or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series.
Short story arcs हैं easier to पैकेज as trade paperbacks for resale, and more accessible to the casual रीडर than the never-ending निरंतरता that once characterised comics.
Black शुक्रवार is the day following थैंक्सगिविंग Day in the United States, often regarded as the शुरूआत of the Christmas shopping season.
In recent years, most प्रमुख retailers have opened अत्यधिक early and offered promotional sales to kick off the holiday shopping season, समान to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth राष्ट्र.
Black Friday is नहीं an official पब्लिक अवकाश as such, but many non-retail employees and schools have both Thanksgiving and the day after off, followed by a weekend, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It has routinely been the busiest खरीदारी day of the year since 2005, although news reports, जिससे at that समय were inaccurate, have described it as the busiest shopping दिन of the year for a much longer period of time.
The day 's name originated in Philadelphia, where it originally थी used to describe the भारी and disruptive pedestrian and गाडी traffic which होता occur on the day बाद Thanksgiving.
उपयोग of the term started before 1961 and began to see broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975.
Later an alternative explanation began to be offered : that `` Black Friday '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to फेरे a profit, or हैं `` ''.
For many सालो, it was common लिये retailers to open at 6:00 a.m., but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011, when several retailers ( including Target, kohl 's, Macy 's, बेहतरीन Buy, and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the पहला समय.
In 2012, Walmart and several अन्य रिटेलर announced that they would open most of their स्टोर्स at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states where opening on Thanksgiving is निषिद्ध due to ब्लू laws, such as Massachusetts where they स्टिल opened around midnight ), prompting काल्स for a walkout among some मजदूर.
Black Friday shopping is known for attracting aggressive crowds, with annual reports of assaults, shootings, and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out.
The परिवार That Preys is a 2008 अमरीकी movie drama लिखा, produced, and directed by Tyler पेरी.
the screenplay focuses on two families, one wealthy and the other working class, whose lives are intertwined in both love और business.
The movie is the second of चार in which Perry 's signature character, madea, does not make an appearance.
It is भी the दूसरी Perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside Daddy 's Little Girls ) that is not आधारित on any of the filmmaker 's स्टेज plays.
Net 10, Net 15, Net 30 और जाल 60 ( also Net 10 days, et al ) are forms of trade credit which specify that the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be paid in full and received by the seller within 10, 15, 30 or 60 days after the goods हैं dispatched or service is completed.
Net 30 or Net 60 शर्तें are often coupled with a क्रेडिट for early payment.
The word net in इस sense means `` total after all discounts. ''
It originally गर्भाशयी from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( सुरुचिपूर्ण, trim ), and more recently from the French जाल ( sharp, neat, clean ).
Roadtown, Tortola
The अंग्रेजों West Indies were the islands in and around the Caribbean that were part of the British Empire.
In 1912, the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : the Bahamas, बारबाडोस, British Guiana, British Honduras, जमैका ( with इसके dependencies the Turks और Caicos Islands और the Cayman Islands ), Trinidad और Tobago, the Windward आइलैंड्स and the Leeward आइलैंड्स.
Between 1958 and 1962, all of the द्वीप territories except the British Virgin आइलैंड्स, the Bahamas, British Honduras and British Guiana were organised into the West Indies Federation.
It was hoped that the Federation होता become स्वतंत्र as a सिंगल स्वदेश, लकिन it था limited powers, अनेक practical problems, and a lack of popular support.
नतीजतन, the West Indies Federation थी dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are now स्वतंत्र as पृथक देशों, with membership to many अंतरराष्ट्रीय forums such as the Organization of American States, the Association of Caribbean States, the World व्यापार संगठन, the United राष्ट्र, the caribbean Community, the Commonwealth of राष्ट्र और the caribbean Development Bank among अन्य.
The remainder are British overseas territories.
All the former राष्ट्र of the British West Indies, except the राष्ट्रमंडल of Dominica, गुयाना and Trinidad and Tobago, हैं Commonwealth Realms.
The term is still used for British Overseas Territories in the Caribbean, ऐसे as the Cayman Islands.
The remaining British West इंडीज
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` जार्ज Douglas '' ) and जार्ज दाउद Weiss.
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as a सिंगल in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy हॉल of कीर्ति in 1999.
the publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug Music, inc.
Inauguration Day 2009 on the west steps of the U.S. Capitol.
अध्यक्ष George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush सीसे the inaugural parade down पेन्सिलवेनिया एवेन्यू to the White House, 2005
The उद्घाटन of the president of the United States is a ceremonial event marking the commencement of a new four-year term of a president of the United States.
The दिन a presidential उद्घाटन occurs is known as `` Inauguration Day '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ).
( Prior to the बीसवीं Amendment, the date थी March 4, the day of the year on which the Constitution of the United States पहला took effect in 1789 ; the पिछला inauguration to लो place on the पुरानी date was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4, 1933. )
The most recent public presidential inauguration रस्म, the swearing in of अध्यक्ष बराक Obama to begin उसके second four-year term in office, took place on Monday, January 21, 2013.
The तभी inauguration element mandated by the United States संविधान is that the president make an शपथ or affirmation before that व्यक्ति can `` डालें on the Execution '' of the दफ्तर of the presidency.
However, over the years, various traditions have arisen कि have expanded the inauguration from a simple oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event, including parades, speeches, और balls.
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through that of Jimmy कार्टर, the प्राथमिक Inauguration Day ceremony took प्लेस on the Capitol 's ईस्ट Portico.
Since the 1981 inauguration of रोनाल्ड Reagan, the ceremony has been आयोजित at the Capitol 's वेस्ट Front.
The inaugurations of विलियम Howard taft in 1909 and Reagan in 1985 were स्थानांतरित indoors at the कैपिटल due to cold weather.
The War of 1812 and World War II caused two inaugurations to be held at other locations in Washington, D.C.
When George Washington was inaugurated, the oath was administered by Robert Livingston, चांसलर of New York State, in 1789, और by William Cushing, संबद्ध Justice of the Supreme Court, in 1793.
चूंकि Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John Adams, no chief justice has missed an उद्घाटन Day.
जब उद्घाटन Day has fallen on a Sunday, the chief justice has administered the शपथ to the president on the Sunday privately and then again the next day सरेआम.
जब a new अध्यक्ष takes over mid-term due to the death or resignation of a president, the oath of office is administered but औपचारिक, public inauguration events have not been held.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta ( ; born March 28, 1986 ), ज्ञात by her stage name Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, dancer, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, actress and philanthropist.
Born and उठाया in New York नगर, वो primarily studied at the कान्वेंट of the Sacred Heart and briefly attended New York University 's Tisch स्कूल of the Arts before withdrawing to फ़ोकस on her musical career.
She soon began performing in the rock music scene of Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
By the end of 2007, record कार्यपालिका और producer विंसेंट Herbert signed her to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records.
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records, her vocal abilities captured the attention of recording कलाकार Akon, who also signed her to Kon Live वितरण, उसके own label under Interscope.
Lady गागा came to prominence as a recording artist following the release of her debut album, The Fame ( 2008 ), which was a critical and commercial success that topped charts around the world and शामिल the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face ``.
After embarking on the The Fame Ball Tour, she followed the album साथ The Fame Monster ( 2009 ), which शाखित the worldwide hit singles `` ख़राब Romance ``, `` टेलीफोन ``, and `` Alejandro ``.
The Fame Monsters success allowed her to embark on the eighteen-month long Monster Ball Tour, जिससे later became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of all time.
Her सबसे recent एल्बम, Born This रास्ता ( 2011 ), topped the charts of most major markets and generated more international chart-topping singles, सहित `` Born This रास्ता ``, `` Judas ``, and `` The Edge of Glory ``.
Influenced by Britney Spears, David Bowie, Michael Jackson, Madonna, and Queen, Lady Gaga is recognized for उसके flamboyant, diverse and outré contributions to the म्यूज़िक industry through her fashion, performances and म्यूज़िक videos.
as of अक्तूबर 2011, she has sold an अनुमानित 23 लाख albums and 64 million singles विश्वव्यापी and her singles are some of the best-selling worldwide.
उसके उपलब्धियाँ include five Grammy Awards and 13 MTV वीडियो Music Awards.
Lady Gaga रै consecutively appeared on Billboard पत्रिका 's Artists of the Year ( स्कोरिंग the निर्णायक title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in VH1 's सूची of 100 Greatest Women in Music, is the sixth best selling digital singles artist in US according to RIAA, is regularly placed on lists composed by फोर्ब्स magazine and was named one of the most influential people in the world by Time पत्रिका.
besides her musical करियर, she involves herself with humanitarian causes and lgbt activism.
McKethan Stadium home of घड़ियाल baseball
a picture of the 1924 बेसबॉल team
the Florida Gators बेसबॉल team represents the University of Florida in the खेल of baseball.
The Florida Gators compete in Division i of the नेशनल Collegiate एथलेटिक्स Association ( NCAA ), and the Eastern Division of the southeastern सम्मेलन ( सेक ).
They play their home games in अल्फ्रेड A. McKethan स्टेडियम on the university 's Gainesville, Florida campus, और are currently led by head कोच Kevin O'Sullivan.
in the ninety-eight season इतिहास of the gators baseball program, the team has जीती बारह SEC championships and has appeared in eight College World Series tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects here.
लिये the Radiohead song, देखिए OK Computer.
Presidential campaign बटन for Abraham Lincoln, 1860.
the reverse side of the button shows a portrait of his running mate hannibal Hamlin.
A political अभियान is an organized effort which seeks to influence the decision making process within a specific group.
In democracies, political campaigns often refer to electoral campaigns, wherein representatives are chosen or referendums are decided.
In modern politics, the most high profile राजनैतिक अभियान are focused on उम्मीदवार for head of state or head of government, often a President or Prime मंत्री.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and उसके बेटी, Harriot
एलिज़ाबेथ Cady Stanton ( November 12, 1815 – अक्तूबर 26, 1902 ) was an American social activist, abolitionist, and अग्रणी figure of the early women 's rights movement.
उसके घोषणा of Sentiments, presented at the first women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca जलप्रपात, New York, is often credited with initiating the first organized women 's rights and women 's suffrage movements in the United States.
Before Stanton narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women 's अधिकारों, she was an active abolitionist together with उसके husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, gerrit Smith.
नापसंद many of those involved in the women 's rights movement, Stanton addressed various issues pertaining to women beyond मतदान अधिकारों.
Her चिंताएं शामिल महिलाओं 's parental and custody rights, property rights, employment and आय rights, divorce, the economic स्वास्थ्य of the family, और birth control.
She थी also an outspoken supporter of the 19th-century temperance movement.
After the American Civil War, stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the महिलाओं 's rights movement when वो, together with Susan B. Anthony, अस्वीकृत to support passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments to the United States संविधान.
She opposed giving added legal protection and voting rights to African American men while women, ब्लैक और white, were denied those same rights.
Her position on this issue, together with her thoughts on व्यवस्थित Christianity और महिलाओं 's issues परे voting rights, led to the formation of two separate women 's अधिकारों organizations that were finally rejoined, साथ Stanton as president of the joint organization, approximately twenty years बाद her break from the original women 's suffrage movement.
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both the स्त्री 's Bible और her autobiography, along साथ many आलेख and pamphlets concerning मादा suffrage and महिलाओं 's rights.
my Fair Lady is a musical based upon George बर्नार्ड Shaw 's Pygmalion and with किताब and lyrics by Alan jay Lerner और music by Frederick Loewe.
the story चिंताएं Eliza doolittle, a काकनी पुष्प girl who takes speech lessons from प्राध्यापक Henry Higgins, a phoneticist, so that she may pass as a well-born lady.
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production थी a hit, setting what was then the record for the longest run of any प्रमुख musical theatre production in history.
It थी followed by a hit लंदन production, a popular film version, and numerous revivals.
It has been called `` the perfect musical ''.
Deregulation is the act or process of removing or reducing राज्य regulations.
It is therefore opposite of regulation, which refers to the process of the सरकारी regulating certain activities.
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 A.M., 8 F.M. प्लस 2 F.M. अनुवादक ) CBS Radio network which carries live खेल प्रसारण of the Boston Bruins.
The network 's फ्लैगशिप station is WBZ-FM /98.5- Boston, Massachusetts.
Dave Goucher announces play-by-play.
Bob Beers provides रंग commentary.
इस article is about the short story.
For the कविता by Sara Teasdale, देखिए There Will आइये नरम Rains.
`` There Will आइये Soft Rains '' is a short story by science fiction author Ray Bradbury which was first published in the May 6, 1950 issue of Collier 's.
Later कि same साल the story was included in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 अरब people, Han Chinese is the largest जातीय group in the world.
Pashtun लोगों of the Pashtunistan region, which sits in an area between south of the हिन्दू Kush in Afghanistan and the सिंधु River in Pakistan.
वे number around 50 million.
The Korowai लोगों of Papua numbered just around 3,000 people, और were uncontacted until the 1970s.
Ethnicity or जातीय group is a socially defined श्रेणी based on common culture or राष्ट्रीयता.
Ethnicity can, लकिन does not have to, शामिल common ancestry, रूप, cuisine, dressing style, heritage, history, language or dialect, religion, symbols, traditions, or other cultural factor.
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through common characteristics जिससे set the group apart from अन्य groups.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar सौर plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
सौर energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, रै been harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar उर्जा technologies include सौर heating, सौर photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis, जिससे can make considerable योगदान to solving some of the most तात्कालिक उर्जा problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or active solar depending on the रास्ता वे capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal द्रव्यमान or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate एयर.
in 2011, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Energy Agency said that `` the विकास of affordable, inexhaustible और clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It होगा increase countries’ energy security through रिलायंस on an indigenous, inexhaustible and ज़्यादातर import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the लागत of mitigating जलवायु change, and keep fossil fuel कीमतें lower than otherwise.
These advantages are global.
Hence the additional costs of the प्रोत्साहन for जल्दी deployment should be considered learning investments ; वे जरूर be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
The classical लैटिन alphabet or Roman वर्णमाला evolved इससे a western variety of the Greek alphabet called the cumaean alphabet, which थी adopted and modified by the Etruscans जो ruled early Rome.
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and further modified by the ancient Romans to write the लैटिन language.
दौरान the Middle Ages, the Latin वर्णमाला was adapted to Romance languages, direct descendants of Latin, as well as to Celtic, Germanic, Baltic, and कुछ Slavic languages.
With the आयु of colonialism and Christian evangelism, the Latin script थी स्प्रेड overseas, and applied to indigenous American, Australian, ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई, Austroasiatic, and African languages.
अधिक recently, linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic वर्णमाला ( itself largely आधारित on लैटिन script ) when transcribing or creating written मानकों for non-European languages, such as the African reference वर्णमाला.
The term Latin वर्णमाला may refer to either the alphabet used to write Latin ( as described in this article ), or other alphabets based on the Latin script, which is the मौलिक set of letters आम to the various alphabets descended from the classical Latin one, such as the English वर्णमाला.
These Latin-derived alphabets may छोड़ें अक्षर, जैसे the rotokas वर्णमाला, or add new letters, like the Danish and Norwegian वर्णमाला.
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries, including the सृष्टि for मध्यकालीन Latin of lower case forms which did not exist in the Classical period.
The assassination of United States President Abraham Lincoln took प्लेस on शुभ Friday, अप्रैल 14, 1865, as the American Civil War was drawing to a close.
the assassination occurred five days after the commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia, General Robert E. ली, surrendered to Lieutenant General ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the first American अध्यक्ष to be assassinated, though an unsuccessful attempt had been made on एंड्रयू Jackson 30 years पहले in 1835.
The हत्या थी planned and carried out by the well-known stage कर्ता John wilkes बूथ, as part of a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause.
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis पावेल and David Herold, जो were assigned to kill सचिव of State William H. Seward, and George Atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew जॉनसन.
By simultaneously eliminating the top three people in the प्रशासन, Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government.
Lincoln was shot while watching the play Our American cousin with his wife Mary Todd Lincoln at Ford 's Theatre in Washington, D.C. on the night of April 14, 1865.
He died early the next morning.
The बाकी of the conspirators ' plot विफल ; Powell only managed to wound Seward, while atzerodt, जॉनसन 's would-be हत्यारे, lost his nerve और fled Washington.
Add-on might mean:
Plug-in ( computing ), a piece of software which enhances another software application और usually can not be run independently
Browser एक्सटेंशन, which modifies the interface and/or behavior of वेब browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ), a piece of software कि enhances and customizes Mozilla-based applications
Add-ons for फायरफॉक्स ( addons.mozilla.org ), the official Mozilla Foundation web site which serves as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
Peripheral, an optional computer hardware component that significantly supplements or enhances the functionality of the original ईकाई
Video खेल accessory, a piece of हार्डवेयर used in संयोजन with a वीडियो खेल console for playing video games
Club level seating is a special section of seating in modern sports stadiums.
The Club Level is usually स्तिथ towards the मध्य of the स्टेज of seating भाग, above the lower deck लकिन below the upper deck.
They are usually right next to the Luxury बाक्स, either right above, right below, or sandwiched between two स्तर of Luxury Boxes.
Club Level seating is considered as उच्चतर class than sitting anywhere else in the arena, लकिन lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes.
Unlike the लक्ज़री Boxes, most club levels do नहीं wrap entirely around the arena.
कुछ club स्तर रोकें at a certain point, giving रास्ता to an expansion of the Mezzanine, while अन्य give way to lower class Luxury Boxes ( ऐसे as `` Party Suites '' ).
A notable एक्सेप्शन to this is अमीरात स्टेडियम in London, which has a complete tier of club seating.
Club Levels allow fans multiple levels of entertainment.
Club Level seating is खोलें to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury बाक्स, which देता more of an outdoors छाप at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas.
क्लबों Level seating is normally bought on a contract basis to allow लिये maximum profit on the part of the stadium.
The Club Level provides fans with special access to an indoor part of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets.
ये areas are air conditioned and allow access to खास restaurants, merchandise stands, और लाउंज areas of the stadium कि are not otherwise available.
Concession स्टैंड and vendors on the Club Level also often offer different menus than in अन्य स्टैंड to give more of a खास feel to the क्लबों.
ये areas are closed बंद to the बाकी of the stadium, and they usually can only be accessed through the विशेष, private club entrances.
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia Villani Scicolone ; 20 September 1934 ) is an इतालवी actress.
लोरेन is widely recognized as Italy 's most renowned and honored actress.
She was the first अभिनेत्री of the talkie era to win an Academy पुरस्कार लिये a non-English-speaking प्रदर्शन, for her portrayal of Cesira in vittorio De सिका 's Two Women.
उसके other पुरस्कार include a Grammy Award, पाँच special Golden Globes, a bafta Award and a लॉरेल Award.
In 1995 वो received the सेसिल B. DeMille Award for आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ, one of many such awards.
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ), El Cid ( 1961 ), Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ), विवाह Italian-Style ( 1964 ), and a खास Day ( 1977 ).
in later years she has appeared in American blockbusters such as Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 ), and Nine ( 2009 ).
In 1994 वो starred in Robert altman 's prêt-à-porter, which earned her a Golden Globe नामांकन the same year.
She has also achieved critical और commercial success in TV फिल्मों such as Courage ( 1986 ).
Deaths for self-inflicted injuries per 100,000 inhabitants in 2004.
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both religious and सोशल pressures, and possibly completely unreported in कुछ areas.
Nevertheless, from reported cases, certain trends are apparent.
Since the आंकड़ा is skewed, comparing suicide rates between राष्ट्र is statistically unsound.
The trends themselves हैं not the cause, but may be indicative of a रूट cause.
The ओपरा Winfrey Leadership अकादमी for Girls - दक्षिण Africa is a female boarding स्कूल founded in January 2007 और located in Henley on Klip near meyerton, south of जोहान्सबर्ग, South Africa.
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing educational and leadership opportunities for academically gifted girls इससे impoverished backgrounds.
ओपरा Winfrey Leadership अकादमी for Girls
Digicel is a मोबाईल phone network प्रदाता operating in 31 बाज़ार across the Caribbean, Central अमेरिका, and Oceania regions.
The कम्पनी is स्वामित्व by Irishman Denis O'Brien, is incorporated in Bermuda, and based in जमैका.
It has परिचय 13 million wireless users.
as of 2012, Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, El Salvador, Fiji, French Guiana, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Martinique, Nauru, Panama, Papua नई Guinea, Samoa, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint विंसेंट और the Grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and Caicos, and Vanuatu.
This is a सूची of records of the FIFA World कप and इसके qualification matches.
Hospital Emergency Codes are used in hospitals worldwide to alert staff to various emergencies.
The use of codes is intended to convey अनिवार्य information जल्दी and with minimal misunderstanding to staff, while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital.
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the hospital, or printed on employee पहचान badges लिये तैयार सन्दर्भ.
Back of a hospital ID badge showing disaster codes.
हॉस्पिटल emergency codes may denote अलग events at different hospitals, सहित nearby ones.
Because अनेक physicians work at more than one facility, this may lead to confusion in emergencies, so uniform systems have been proposed.
The route of the eifel aqueduct, with its average slope.
The Eifel Aqueduct was one of the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire.
The aqueduct, constructed in AD 80, carried water कुछ इससे the hilly Eifel प्रदेश of what is now Germany to the ancient city of colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
If the auxiliary spurs to additional springs are शामिल, the length was.
The construction थी almost entirely below ground, and the flow of the water थी produced entirely by gravity.
A few bridges, including एक up to in length, यहूद needed to pass over घाटियों.
Unlike some of the other famous Roman aqueducts, the Eifel aqueduct was specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing.
In chemistry, a disulfide bond ( br.e. disulphide bond ) is a covalent bond, usually derived by the coupling of two thiol समूह.
The linkage is also called an SS-bond or disulfide सेतु.
the overall connectivity is therefore R-S-S-R.
The terminology is widely used in biochemistry.
In formal terms, the connection is a persulfide, in analogy to इसके congener, peroxide ( R-O-O-R ), लकिन this terminology is obscure and is no longer प्रयुक्त ( except in reference to r-s-s-h or H-S-S-H compounds ).
Formal depiction of disulfide bond formation as an oxidation.
Westminster Abbey is प्रयुक्त लिये the coronation of अंग्रेजों monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the देशों that preceded it, रै been dominated, लिये over 1,400 years, by various फ़ॉर्म of Christianity.
According to कुछ सर्वेक्षण, a बहुमत of citizens still identify with Christianity, हालांकि नियमित church उपस्थिति has गिरे dramatically since the मध्य of the 20th century, and आव्रजन and जनसांख्यिकी बदलें have contributed to the growth of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of uk citizens are recorded by regular surveys, the four प्रमुख ones being the UK जनसांख्यिकी, the Labour Force Survey, the British सोशल Attitudes survey and the European Social सर्वेक्षण.
According to the 2001 UK जनसांख्यिकी, Christianity is the major religion, followed by Islam, Hinduism, Sikhism, Judaism and Buddhism in terms of number of adherents.
This, and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no religious affiliations has led commentators to variously describe the United Kingdom as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-Christian समाज.
The United किंगडम was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707, and consequently सबसे of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures.
While कुछ groups have separate structures for the individual countries of the United Kingdom, others may have a सिंगल structure covering England and वेल्स or Great Britain.
Similarly, due to the relatively recent creation of Northern Ireland in 1921, most major धार्मिक groups in Northern Ireland हैं organised on an all-Ireland आधार.
The 1967 न्यूर्क riots were a प्रमुख civil disturbance that occurred in the city of न्यूर्क, नई Jersey between July 12 and July 17, 1967.
The six दिनों of rioting, लूटने, and destruction बाएँ 26 dead and hundreds घायल.
in United States college athletics, redshirt is a delay or suspension of an athlete 's participation in order to lengthen उसके or her period of eligibility.
Typically, a student 's एथलेटिक eligibility in a given sport is four seasons, a number derived from the four years of अकादमिक वर्ग that are normally required to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university.
However, a student athlete may be offered the opportunity to redshirt for up to two years, which allows the खिलाड़ी to spread those four सालो of eligibility over five, or sometimes छह years.
in a redshirt year, a student athlete may attend classes at the कॉलेज or विश्वविद्यालयों, practice साथ an एथलेटिक team, and dress लिये खेल but he or she may not compete during the खेल.
using this mechanism, a student athlete has up to five academic years to use the four years of eligibility, thus becoming a fifth-year senior.
the term is used as a verb, noun, and adjective.
For example, a coach may चुनें to redshirt a player जो is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
The opposite of इस is a `` true freshman. ''
World War I ( wwi ) was a वैश्विक war centred in यूरोपीय that began on 28 July 1914 और lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World युद्ध or the Great War इससे its occurrence जबतक the start of संसार War II in 1939, और the पहला World War or World War i thereafter.
It involved all the world 's ग्रेट शक्तियां, जिससे were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, फ़्रांस and Russia ) and the सेंट्रल Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had लिया the offensive विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, इटली did not enter into the युद्ध ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations डाला the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the उस्मानी Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
ultimately, more than 70 लाख military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 लाख combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding सुधार in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in संसार history, subsequently paving the रास्ता for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the राष्ट्र involved.
एक of the long-term causes of the युद्ध was the resurgence of imperialism in the विदेशी policies of the great शक्तियां of Europe.
More immediately, the हत्या of Archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis जब austria-hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict जल्द spread around the world.
On 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
जबकि the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition साथ a trench line that changed little जबतक 1917.
on the Eastern Front, the रूसी army थी successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of ईस्ट Prussia by the germans.
In November the उस्मानी Empire joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives और American forces began प्रवेश the trenches.
Germany, जिससे था its अपना trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the war ended in विजय for the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the समाप्त of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the पूर्व two lost a great राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe थी redrawn into अनेक smaller states.
The लीग of राष्ट्र was formed in the hope of preventing another such विरोध.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's शिकस्त and समस्याएं साथ the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist राज्य अंतर्गत the Marxist–Leninist or Maoist definition - that is to say, `` Communist राज्य '' - between 1979 and 1983.
इस period marked the greatest territorial extent of Communist राज्य.
a communist state is a state where the means of production are collectively स्वामित्व by the society.
It has a form of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party rule of a communist party ( referred as Dictatorship of the proletariat by इसके proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or marxist–leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
Technically, `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist society as defined by दोनो Marxists and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From this perspective, the term marxist-leninist state is more appropriate.
Historically, a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of उत्पादन by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working क्लास ; today, a कम्युनिस्ट राज्य can also, for instance, refer to contemporary चीन and Vietnam, where a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy.
according to Marxist–Leninists, the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling class, which in a socialist society is the working class, so a socialist state is, according to leninists, a state of the working class.
In practice, communist states do not actually refer to themselves as such.
They do this नहीं to disguise the फैक्ट that the ruling party is कम्युनिस्ट, लकिन rather क्युकी they do not consider themselves to be a communist society at present.
Instead, they constitutionally identify themselves as socialist states or workers ' states.
the primary goal of ये states, which also explains their आधिकारिक name, is to guide their संबंधित देशों in the process of building समाजवादी, ultimately leading to communism.
Communist states may have अनेक legal राजनैतिक parties, but the कम्युनिस्ट party is usually granted a खास or प्रबल role in government, often by statute or under the constitution.
Consequently, the institutions of the state और of the communist party become intimately entwined, such as in the development of समानांतर संस्थानों.
In the 20th century, most communist राज्य adopted planned economies.
However, there were अपवाद : The Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after World War II allowed limited markets and a degree of worker self-management, while चीन, Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms बाद the 1980s.
In the 21st सदी, China और Vietnam have allowed a mixed economy to develop.
the fundamental अवधारणाओं of communist states often diverge from the original socio-economic ideologies इससे which they develop.
As a परिणाम, many adherents of these ideologies प्रायः oppose the political systems commonly associated with these राज्य.
For उदाहरण, dissenting साम्यवादियों ऐसे as Trotskyists were often opposed to the communist states of the 20th century, claiming either that they था nothing to do साथ `` real '' communism or that the ideology of such states had reached a पाइंट of irrevocable भ्रष्टाचार.
Michael Fred Phelps II ( born June 30, 1985 ) is a रिटायर्ड American तैराक and the सबसे decorated ओलंपियन of all time, with a total of 22 medals.
Phelps also holds the all-time records लिये Olympic gold medals ( 18, double the second highest रिकार्ड holders ), Olympic gold medals in individual events ( 11 ), and Olympic medals in व्यक्तिगत events for a male ( 13 ).
In winning आठ सुनहरा medals at the 2008 Beijing Games, फेल्प्स took the record for the most first-place finishes at any सिंगल Olympic Games.
Five of those victories were in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम, tying the सिंगल Games record.
in the 2012 Summer ओलंपिक in London, फेल्प्स won four golds and two silver medals, making him the most successful athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row.
फेल्प्स is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as well as the former long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter व्यक्तिगत medley.
He has won a कुल of 71 medals in major international long-course competition, 57 gold, 11 चांदी, and तीन bronze spanning the Olympics, the World, and the Pan Pacific Championships.
फेल्प्स 's international titles and record-breaking performances have earned him the World Swimmer of the Year पुरस्कार सात times and American तैराक of the Year Award nine times as well as the फिना तैराक of the Year पुरस्कार in 2012.
His unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 earned Phelps Sports Illustrated पत्रिका 's Sportsman of the साल award.
After the 2008 गर्मियाँ Olympics, Phelps started the Michael Phelps Foundation, which focuses on growing the sport of swimming और promoting healthier lifestyles.
he expects to do further work साथ उसके foundation बाद the 2012 Olympics, which he रै said will be his last.
Lenovo समूह सीमित ( ) is a चाइनीज multinational कंप्यूटर hardware and electronics कम्पनी साथ its headquarters in बीजिंग, China and Morrisville, North कैरोलिना and its पंजीकृत office in Hong Kong, चीन.
Its products include personal कंप्यूटर, tablet computers, mobile phones, workstations, सर्वर, electronic भंडार devices, IT management software and smart televisions.
Lenovo is the world 's second-largest PC vendor by 2012 unit sales.
It markets the ThinkPad line of कोपी computers and the ThinkCentre line of desktops.
Lenovo has operations in more than 60 countries and बिकता इसके products in around 160 countries.
Lenovo थी founded in Beijing in 1984 and incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 अंतर्गत its previous name, Legend.
Lenovo is सूचीबद्ध on the Hong Kong भण्डार एक्सचेंज and is a constituent of the Hang Seng China-Affiliated Corporations अनुक्रमणिका.
Slug is a common name for an apparently shell-less terrestrial gastropod mollusk.
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the आम नाम of any gastropod mollusc that has no shell, has a very reduced shell, or has only a small internal shell.
( This is in कंट्रास्ट to the common नाम `` snail ``, which is applied to gastropods that have a coiled shell that is large enough कि the soft parts of the animal can retract fully into it. )
Slugs exist on land and in the sea, और there is even one genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to land slugs, whereas slugs from the sea or from freshwater are usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs ''.
जमीन gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial, but is too small to retract into ( like many in the family Urocyclidae ), हैं known as semislugs.
the विभिन्न taxonomic families of slugs form part of several quite अलग evolutionary lineages जिससे also शामिल snails.
Thus, for example, the various families of land slugs हैं not very closely related to one another, despite a सतही समानता in the overall body form.
The shell-less condition has arisen many times independently during the विकासवादी past, और thus the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, जैसे all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the internal अंगों ) during विकास.
Internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this रोटेशन, but externally the bodies of land slugs appear to be अधिक or less symmetrical, मगर लिये the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one side of the animal, normally the सही hand side.
The नरम, slimy bodies of slugs हैं prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and must retreat to damp hiding places when the weather is शुष्क.
The subsequent information in this article applies to जमीन slugs.
is a Latin word कि means `` यूँ '' or, in writing, `` it was thus in the सोर्स सामग्री ''.
Sic may also refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a commune in Romania
SIC, the क्षेत्रीय code for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], stage name of Jennifer Morris, a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band इससे Torshavn, the पूंजी of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by American band Slipknot on the एल्बम Slipknot
SIC, the initial of मार्को Simoncelli.
sic as an acronym may stand for:
sic, Silicon कार्बाइड, a semiconducting material, also used to मेक metalworking tools
sic ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
मानक Industrial Classification, a 20th-century U.S. प्रणाली for classifying उद्योग
International Standard Industrial Classification a UN system for economic activities
Shetland Islands Council
the Swiss Interbank clearing प्रणाली
San Isidro Club, an Argentine rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee, a committee समर्पित to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information मानदंड in the field of आंकडे
Second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema Interconectado सेंट्रल power grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( sic ), a टेलीविज़न channel in Portugal
समुद्र आइल नगर, New Jersey, a coastal town in the United States
Segmented Integer Counter mode, a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack कि hosts the Malaysian round of सूत्र 1
Shanghai International Circuit, a motor रेसिंग venue in Shanghai, China
सरलीकृत instructional computer, a hypothetical computer used in systems प्रोग्रामिंग
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois कॉलेज, a two year Junior कॉलेज in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly ज्ञात as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a Jesuit school in Sydney, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
इम्पीरियल Standard of Napoleon I
Napoleon Bonaparte (, ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military और political leader जो rose to prominence during the latter stages of the फ्रेंच Revolution and its संबद्ध wars in Europe.
As Napoleon I, he was Emperor of the French from 1804 to 1815.
His legal reform, the Napoleonic Code, has been a major influence on अनेक सिविल विधि jurisdictions worldwide, but he is बेहतरीन remembered for his role in the wars led against France by a series of coalitions, the so-called napoleonic Wars.
He established hegemony over most of continental Europe और sought to spread the ideals of the French क्रान्ति, while consolidating an imperial monarchy which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime.
Due to his success in ये युद्धों, often against numerically superior enemies, he is generally regarded as एक of the greatest military commanders of all time, और his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide.
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica in a family of noble Italian ancestry जिससे था settled Corsica in the 16th century.
He trained as an तोपखाने अधिकारी in mainland France.
He rose to prominence under the French First Republic and led successful campaigns against the First और Second Coalitions arrayed against France.
he led a successful invasion of the इतालवी peninsula.
In 1799, he staged a coup d'état and installed himself as First Consul ; five years बाद the French Senate proclaimed him emperor, following a plebiscite in his favour.
In the first decade of the 19th सदी, the फ्रेंच Empire अंतर्गत नेपोलियन सगाई in a श्रेणी of conflicts—the napoleonic युद्धों —that involved every प्रमुख European शक्ति.
After a streak of victories, France secured a dominant position in continental यूरोपीय, and Napoleon maintained the French sphere of influence through the formation of extensive alliances और the appointment of friends and परिवार सदस्यों to rule other European countries as French क्लाएंट states.
The प्रायद्वीपीय युद्ध और 1812 French invasion of रूस marked turning points in Napoleon 's सौभाग्य.
उसके Grande Armée was badly damaged in the campaign and never fully बरामद.
In 1813, the छठे Coalition defeated his शक्तियां at Leipzig ; the following year the गठबन्धन invaded France, forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled उसे to the island of एल्बा.
Less than a year later, he escaped Elba and returned to power, but थी defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815.
Napoleon spent the last six years of his life in confinement by the British on the island of Saint Helena.
an autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer, but there has been some debate about the cause of his मौत, as some विद्वानों have speculated that he was a शिकार of arsenic poisoning.
This is a chronological listing of the United States Senators from Pennsylvania.
United States Senators are popularly elected, for a six-year term, beginning January 3.
Elections are held the first Tuesday after November 1.
पहले 1914, they were चुनी by the पेन्सिलवेनिया General सभा, and before 1935, their terms began March 4.
the दक्षिण Africa national rugby union team ( known as the Springboks ) represents South अफ़्रीकी in rugby union.
They compete in the सालाना Rugby Championship, along साथ southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina, Australia and New Zealand.
वे have won इस championship on three occasions in sixteen years.
They are currently ranked second in the world by the International Rugby Board, and were named 2008 World Team of the Year at the Laureus संसार Sports Awards.
हालांकि South Africa was इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the creation of the रग्बी World Cup प्रतियोगिता, the Springboks did not compete in the first two World cups in 1987 और 1991 क्युकी of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa.
The team made its World कप debut in 1995, जब the newly democratic South Africa hosted the tournament.
The Springboks then पराजित the All Blacks 15–12 in the फाइनल, which is now remembered as one of the महानतम moments in South Africa 's sporting इतिहास, and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building प्रक्रम.
South Africa regained their शीर्षक as champions 12 years later, when they defeated England 15–6 in the 2007 final.
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the Springboks were promoted to first प्लेस in the IRB World Rankings, a position they held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot.
The Springboks play in green and सुनहरा jerseys, and their emblems are the springbok और the protea.
the side has been playing international rugby since 1891, when a British Isles side toured the nation, playing South Africa in उनके first Test on 30 जुलाई.
South Africa was coached by Jake White, who led the Boks to the 2007 World Cup title, announcing his resignation effectively from the end of 2007.
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011, following a 11–9 defeat to Australia in the Rugby संसार कप quarter-final, जो then stated he होता नहीं be signing a new deal.
The previous captain was John Smit, who पहले he रिटायर्ड in 2011 played hooker for most of his career, although he has also been a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
Due to Smit being अनुपलब्ध for the November 2010 Tests after surgery, lock Victor Matfield took Smit 's place as captain लिये that tour.
The current captain is Jean de Villiers.
The Battle of Gettysburg (, with an sound ), was fought July 1–3, 1863, in and around the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
It was the battle with the largest number of casualties in the अमरीकी Civil युद्ध और is often वर्णित as the war 's turning point.
Union Maj. Gen. George गॉर्डन Meade 's Army of the Potomac defeated attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. ली 's Army of उत्तरी Virginia, समाप्ति Lee 's invasion of the North.
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863, Lee led his फौज through the shenandoah घाटी to begin his second आक्रमण of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign.
साथ his army in high आत्माओं, ली intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign इससे war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their अभियोजन of the युद्ध by penetrating as far as Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, or even Philadelphia.
Prodded by President Abraham lincoln, Maj. Gen. Joseph वेश्या स्थानांतरित उसके army in pursuit, but was सुकून just three दिनों before the battle और replaced by Meade.
तत्व of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863, as Lee urgently concentrated his forces वहीँ, his objective होने to engage the Union army and destroy it.
कम ridges to the northwest of कस्बा were defended initially by a Union cavalry division under Brig. Gen. जॉन Buford, and soon reinforced with two corps of संघ infantry.
However, two large confederate corps assaulted them from the उत्तरपश्चिम and north, collapsing the hastily विकसित Union lines, sending the defenders retreating through the गलियों of town to the hills just to the south.
On the second day of battle, most of both armies had समवेत.
The Union line was laid out in a defensive formation resembling a fishhook.
In the लेट afternoon of July 2, ली शुभारम्भ a heavy assault on the Union left flank, and fierce fighting raged at Little Round Top, the Wheatfield, शैतान 's डेन, and the Peach Orchard.
On the Union सही, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on culp 's हिल और Cemetery Hill.
All across the battlefield, despite significant losses, the संघ defenders held their lines.
On the third day of बैटल, July 3, fighting resumed on Culp 's हिल, and cavalry लड़ाइयों raged to the east and south, but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates विरूद्ध the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge, known as पिकेट 's चार्ज.
The charge थी repulsed by Union rifle and artillery fire, at great losses to the Confederate फौज.
Lee led his फौज on a torturous retreat back to वर्जिनिया.
Between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers from both armies were casualties in the three-day battle.
That November, President Lincoln प्रयुक्त the dedication ceremony for the Gettysburg National Cemetery to सम्मान the fallen Union सैनिको and redefine the purpose of the युद्ध in his historic Gettysburg Address.
An academic अनुशासन, or फ़ील्ड of पढ़ाई, is a branch of knowledge कि is taught और researched at the college or university level.
Disciplines are defined ( in part ), and recognized by the academic जर्नल्स in which research is published, and the learned societies and academic विभाग or faculties to which उनके practitioners belong.
However, there exists no formal criteria for when educational programs and scholarly journals रूप an academic discipline.
A विशाल अंतर exists between, on the one हाथ, खूब established disciplines that exist in almost सब universities all over the world, have a long history, and have a खूब established set of जर्नल्स and सम्मेलनों, and, on the other hand, सुझाव for new फ़ील्ड समर्थित only by few विश्वविद्यालयों and publications.
Fields of पढ़ाई usually have several sub-disciplines or शाखाओं, and the distinguishing lines between these are often both मनमानी and अस्पष्ट.
PHP is a server-side scripting भाषा designed लिये वेब विकास but भी प्रयुक्त as a general-purpose programming language.
PHP is now installed on more than 244 million websites and 2.1 लाख वेब servers.
originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the reference implementation of PHP is now produced by The पीएचपी Group.
While पीएचपी originally stood for निजी घर Page, it now stands for पीएचपी : Hypertext preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP code is interpreted by a web सर्वर with a पीएचपी processor मोड्यूल which generates the resulting web page : पीएचपी commands can be embedded directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an external file to process आंकड़ा.
It has भी विकसित to include a command-line interface capability and can be used in standalone graphical applications.
पीएचपी is free तन्त्र released under the PHP License, जिससे is incompatible with the GNU General Public License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the उपयोग of the term PHP.
PHP can be deployed on most web servers and also as a standalone shell on almost every operating प्रणाली और मंच, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` जोकर '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by his initials JFK, was the 35th President of the United राज्य, serving from 1961 until his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the मोटर Torpedo Boats PT-109 और PT-59 during World War II in the South Pacific, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the u.S. House of प्रतिनिधि from 1947 to 1953 as a डेमोक्रेट.
Thereafter, he served in the u.S. सीनेट from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican प्रत्याशी Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. अध्यक्षीय election.
At 43 सालो of आयु, he is the youngest to have been elected to the office, the second-youngest President ( after Theodore रूज़वेल्ट ), and the first व्यक्ति born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the only non- Protestant अध्यक्ष, and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer पुरस्कार.
Events during उसके presidency included the Bay of Pigs आक्रमण, the क्यूबन मिसाइल Crisis, the building of the Berlin Wall, the स्पेस Race, the african-american Civil Rights गति, और early चरण of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the क्रमांक of military advisers, special आपरेशन forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the स्प्रेड of साम्यवादी in दक्षिण East एशिया.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic हैमलेट Program which थी implemented by the South वियतनामी government.
It involved निश्चित forced relocation, village internment, और segregation of rural South वियतनामी from the northern और southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963 in डलास, Texas.
Lee Harvey ओसवाल्ड was चार्ज with the crime, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby दो days later, पहले a trial could लो place.
The FBI और the Warren Commission officially concluded that ओसवाल्ड was the lone हत्यारे.
However, the United राज्य House चुनें कमेटी on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that कैनेडी was probably assassinated as the result of a षड्यंत्र.
However, ABC News in their investigation, The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond षड्यंत्र, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted अलोन.
कैनेडी 's controversial Department of रक्षा TFX fighter bomber program led to a Congressional investigation कि lasted इससे 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s information concerning Kennedy 's private जीवन has come to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health समस्याएं in which he struggled have become better ज्ञात, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret from the general public, रिपोर्ट्स of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks highly in public opinion दरजा of u.S. presidents.
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. King and written by King, Jerry leiber, and Mike Stoller, inspired by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me, '' प्लस दो लाइनों rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
वहीँ have been over 400 recorded versions of the song.
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D. Ehrhart, shows a फार्म woman labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering from a tornado of political बदलें.
a metaphor is a figure of speech that describes a subject by asserting that it is, on some point of comparison, the same as another otherwise unrelated ऑब्जेक्ट.
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely related to other rhetorical figures of वाक that achieve their प्रभाव via association, comparison or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, and simile.
In simpler terms, a metaphor compares two objects or things without using the words `` like '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor in अंग्रेज़ी literature is the All the संसार 's a stage monologue इससे As You Like It :
All the world 's a स्टैगe,
And all the men and women merely players ;
They have their exits and their entrances ; — William Shakespeare, As You Like It, 2/7
This quote is a metaphor because the world is not वस्तुतः a stage.
by figuratively asserting कि the संसार is a स्टेज, शेक्सपियर uses the points of तुलना between the world and a stage to convey an understanding about the यांत्रिकी of the world and the lives of the people within it.
माउंट Fuji, from the Thirty-six दृश्य of Mount फुजी, रंग woodcut by Katsushika hokusai
Rembrandt van rijn, self-portrait, etching, c.1630
Francisco Goya, There is No One To Help Them, आपदाओं of War श्रेणी, aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton, la raison probante ( The Cogent Reason ), woodcut from the series intimités, 1898
Printmaking is the process of बनाना artworks by printing, normally on paper.
Printmaking सामान्यतः covers only the process of creating prints with an element of originality, rather than just being a photographic reproduction of a painting.
Except in the मामला of monotyping, the process is capable of producing multiples of the वही piece, which is called a print.
Each print produced is not considered a `` copy '' but rather is माना an `` original ''.
This is क्युकी typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process, and also because the imagery of a print is typically not simply a reproduction of another work but rather is often a अद्वितीय image designed from the प्रारंभ to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique.
A print may be ज्ञात as an impression.
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not chosen only लिये its ability to produce multiple impressions, लकिन rather for the unique qualities कि each of the printmaking processes lends itself to.
Prints are निर्मित by transferring ink from a matrix or through a prepared screen to a sheet of पेपर or अन्य material.
आम types of matrices include : metal plates, usually copper or zinc, or polymer प्लेटों for engraving or etching ; stone, aluminum, or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts.
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics are used for the screenprinting process.
Other प्रकार of matrix substrates और related processes are discussed below.
Multiple impressions printed from the same matrix रूप an edition.
Since the late 19th century, artists have generally signed individual impressions from an edition और often क्रमांक the impressions to form a सीमित edition.
Prints may also be printed in book form, such as illustrated books or artist 's books.
Il Divo is an अंग्रेज़ी multinational operatic pop vocal group created by music manager, कार्यपालिका, और reality tv star Simon Cowell.
formed in the United Kingdom, they हैं भी हस्ताक्षरित to Cowell 's रिकार्ड label, Syco Music.
Il Divo is a group of चार पुरूष singers : French pop सिंगर Sébastien izambard, Spanish baritone Carlos marín, American tenor David Miller, and Swiss tenor उर्स Bühler.
to date, they have बेची more than 26 लाख albums worldwide.
Su-15, one of the principal Soviet Air Defence interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor वायुयान ( or बस interceptor ) is a type of सेनानी aircraft designed specifically to prevent missions of enemy aircraft, विशेषकर bombers and reconnaissance aircraft, and destroy them, relying usually on great speed और powerful armament.
Being used since the पहला World युद्ध, after the late 1960s, interceptors became less important due to shifting from बमवर्षक to intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) लिये nuclear warfare.
A Vietnamese American ( ) is an American of Vietnamese descent.
They make up परिचय हाफ of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người Việt Hải ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest एशियाई American group.
Mass Vietnamese आव्रजन to the United राज्य started after 1975, after the समाप्त of the Vietnam War.
Early आप्रवासियों were refugee boat people fleeing persecution or poverty.
मजबूर to flee from उनके homeland and प्रायः thrust into poor urban neighborhoods, these newcomers have nevertheless managed to establish strong समुदायों in a छोटी amount of time.
More than sixty percent of Vietnamese Americans reside in the राज्य of California, Texas, वॉशिंगटन, Florida, and Virginia.
सामने page of the u.S. Armed शक्तियां समाचारपत्र, सितारों and Stripes, 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler वचनबद्ध suicide by gunshot on 30 April 1945 in his Führerbunker in Berlin.
His wife Eva ( née braun ) committed suicide with him by ingesting cyanide.
That afternoon, in accordance with Hitler 's prior निर्देश, their remains were carried up the stairs through the bunker 's emergency exit, doused in petrol and set alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the बंकर.
The Soviet अभिलेख रिकार्ड that their burnt remains were recovered और interred in successive locations जबतक 1970 when वे were again exhumed, cremated and the ashes बिखरे.
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, जबकि biting bas on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary historians have अस्वीकृत these accounts as being either Soviet प्रचार or an attempted compromise in अनुक्रम to reconcile the different conclusions.
एक eye-witness recorded that the body showed signs of having been शॉट through the mouth, but this has महरूम सिद्ध unlikely.
There is भी controversy regarding the authenticity of skull and jaw fragments which यहूद बरामद.
in 2009, DNA परीक्षण were performed on a skull Soviet officials था long believed to be Hitler 's.
The tests revealed that the skull थी actually that of a woman कम than 40 सालो old.
Location of Missouri
The दारू laws of Missouri are among the least restrictive and most lax and permissive in the United States.
Missouri is known throughout the मिडवेस्ट for its largely laissez-faire दृष्टिकोण to दारू regulation, in sharp contrast to the very strict alcohol laws of कुछ of its पड़ोसी, like कान्सास and Oklahoma.
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF, commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome, is a rare infection of the deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous tissues, easily spreading आरपार the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue.
necrotizing fasciitis is जल्दी progressing, having greater risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to conditions like मधुमेह, कर्कट, etc.
it is a severe disease of अचानक onset and is प्रायः treated immediately with ऊँची doses of intravenous antibiotics.
Type I describes a polymicrobial infection, whereas Type II describes a monomicrobial infection.
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ), Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
Such infections हैं more संभावित to occur in people with compromised immune systems.
Historically, Group a streptococcus made up most cases of Type II infections.
However, since as early as 2001, another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has been observed with increasing frequency, caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( मरसा ).
Some प्रकाशित case रिपोर्ट्स have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and NF, though the evidence of the link was said to be weak because of a small क्रमांक of मामला मरीजों and it was unclear whether the drugs बस नकाबपोश the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se.
संसार War II ( WWII or WW2 ), also ज्ञात as the Second World युद्ध, was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945.
It involved the विशाल majority of the संसार 's राष्ट्र —including all of the great powers —eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies और the Axis.
It was the most widespread युद्ध in history, with more than 100 million people serving in military इकाई from over 30 अलग countries.
In a state of `` total युद्ध ``, the major भागीदार placed their entire economic, industrial, and scientific सामर्थ्य at the service of the युद्ध प्रयत्न, erasing the भेद between civilian and military resources.
Marked by द्रव्यमान deaths of civilians, including the Holocaust and the only use of nuclear weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities.
These मौतों make World War ii by far the deadliest conflict in human history.
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937, but the world war is generally said to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 with the invasion of Poland by जर्मनी and subsequent घोषणाओं of युद्ध on Germany by France and ब्रिटेन.
From late 1939 to early 1941, in a series of campaigns and treaties, जर्मनी formed the Axis alliance with Italy, conquering or subduing much of continental यूरोपीय.
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours, including Poland.
the United किंगडम and the other सदस्यों of the British Commonwealth were the only प्रमुख अलाइड forces continuing the fight against the Axis, with battles लेने प्लेस in North अफ़्रीकी as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
In June 1941, the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, giving a start to the largest land theatre of war in history, which tied down the प्रमुख part of the Axis ' military forces for the rest of the war.
In December 1941, Japan joined the Axis, attacked the संयुक्त राज्य and European territories in the Pacific समंदर, and जल्दी conquered much of the पश्चिमी प्रशांत.
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942, after Japan खोया a series of naval battles and European Axis troops were defeated in North Africa and, decisively, at Stalingrad.
In 1943, with a श्रेणी of German defeats in पूर्वी Europe, the Allied invasion of Italy, और American victories in the Pacific, the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts.
in 1944, the Western allies invaded France, while the सोवियत संघ regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies.
During 1944 और 1945 the United States defeated the जापानी नेवी and captured key पश्चिमी Pacific आइलैंड्स.
the war in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by Soviet and Polish सैनिकों and the subsequent जर्मनी unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945.
Following the Potsdam घोषणा by the Allies on 26 July 1945, the संयुक्त States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 अगस्त, and Nagasaki on 9 August.
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent, and the Soviet संघ having declared war on Japan by invading Manchuria, Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945, ending the युद्ध in एशिया और cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis.
संसार युद्ध II altered the political alignment and social ढांचा of the world.
The United राष्ट्र ( UN ) was established to फोस्टर international cooperation and prevent future conflicts.
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States, the Soviet Union, China, the संयुक्त Kingdom, और France—became the permanent सदस्यों of the संयुक्त Nations Security परिषद.
The Soviet Union और the United States emerged as प्रतिद्वंद्वी superpowers, setting the stage for the Cold War, which lasted for the next 46 years.
Meanwhile, the influence of European ग्रेट शक्तियां started to decline, while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began.
Most countries whose industries had been damaged स्थानांतरित towards economic recovery.
Political integration, especially in Europe, emerged as an effort to stabilise postwar संबंध and fight अधिक effectively in the Cold War.
a limited liability company ( LLC ) is a flexible रूप of enterprise that मिश्रणों तत्व of partnership and कॉरपोरेट structures.
Note than an llc is नहीं a corporation, and कॉलिंग an LLC a corporation is technically incorrect.
An llc is a legal form of company that provides सीमित liability to its owners in the vast majority of संयुक्त राज्य jurisdictions.
LLCs do not need to be organized for profit.
Five K-Cups
the inside of a used K-Cup, with the top foil और the used coffee grounds removed.
This shows the फिल्टर inside the K-Cup.
k-cup portion packs are used with Keurig or अन्य single cup brewing systems to brew a कप of coffee, tea, or hot chocolate.
Each K-Cup is a plastic container with a coffee filter inside.
Ground coffee beans are packed in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight with a संयोजन प्लास्टिक and foil lid.
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the k-cup and forces hot water under pressure through the k-cup and into a mug.
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as ग्रीन Mountain Coffee Roasters, Diedrich/ Gloria Jeans, Timothy 's World कॉफी, Van Houtte, हिरण Coffee, Celestial Seasonings, Bigelow Tea Company, twinings, Tully 's, Coffee लोगों and Newman 's Own.
Keurig 's patents on the original K-Cup डिज़ाइन expired in September 2012.
Keurig holds at least one additional, still-active us patent and another patent अनुप्रयोग, detailing सुधार कि have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup डिज़ाइन.
electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the Gallet Watch Company in la Chaux-de-Fonds, स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 hour recoding capabilities, automatic day, date, माह, and moon phase display
A modern Seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement 7T92 ).
नागरिक Atessa eco-drive ATV53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4 area Radio Controlled रिसेप्शन ( North America, Europe, चीन, Japan ).
a chronograph is a specific type of watch that is प्रयुक्त as a stopwatch संयुक्त with a display watch.
A basic chronograph has an independent स्वीप दूसरी hand ; it can be प्रारंभ, रोका, and returned to zero by successive दबाव on the stem.
Louis Moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from परिधीय Component Interconnect, भाग of the पीसीआई Local Bus standard और प्रायः shortened to just पीसीआई ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a कंप्यूटर.
The PCI bus supports the functions मिला on a प्रोसेसर bus, but in a standardized format that is independent of कोई particular processor.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट directly to the processor बस, और are आबंटित addresses in the processor 's address स्पेस.
Attached devices can take either the form of an एकीकृत circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, called a planar device in the PCI specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus थी first implemented in IBM pc compatibles, जहाँ it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently been adopted for other computer types.
PCI and pci-x are होने replaced by पीसीआई Express, but, most motherboards हैं still made साथ one or अधिक PCI स्लॉट, which are sufficient लिये many uses.
the PCI specification covers the physical आकार of the बस ( including the आकार और अंतरण of the सर्किट board किनारे electrical सम्पर्क ), विद्युत characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
the specification can be purchased from the PCI Special ब्याज Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : संजाल cards, sound cards, modems, अतिरिक्त ports such as USB or serial, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA ताश, until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the सामर्थ्य of PCI ; the पसन्दीदा interface for video cards became AGP, and then पीसीआई Express.
PCI video ताश remain available for use with बूढ़ा PCs बगैर AGP or PCI Express slots.
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion ताश are now commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक सीरियल bus and पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण.
Michael Whitaker स्मिथ ( born अक्तूबर 7, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी contemporary Christian musician, who रै charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts.
His biggest success in mainstream music was in 1991 when `` Place in this World '' hit No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time Grammy Award winner, and has earned 40 dove Awards.
Over the course of his career, he sold more than 13 million albums और recorded 29 no. 1 Hit songs, fourteen gold albums, and five platinum एल्बम.
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he was also named एक of People magazine 's `` Most खूबसूरत People ''.
An American poster from the संसार युद्ध ii -era that was used to inform लोगों about what they चाहिए do if they suspect sabotage.
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another entity through subversion, obstruction, disruption, or विनाश.
In a workplace setting, sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of efficiency generally directed at causing some बदलें in workplace शर्तें.
One who engages in तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur.
As a rule, saboteurs try to conceal their पहचान because of the consequences of their actions.
For example, whereas an environmental pressure group might be happy to be identified with an act of sabotage, it would not want the individual identities of the perpetrators ज्ञात.
पैट्रिक Henry कॉलेज ( PHC ) is a private, independent college with an Evangelical Christian basis कि focuses on teaching classical liberal कला and government, located in Purcellville, Virginia, संयुक्त राज्य.
Patrick Henry is known for its conservative evangelical Christian focus.
As of अप्रैल 17, 2007, the college थी accredited by the transnational Association of Christian कॉलेजों and Schools, a नेशनल faith-related accrediting organization recognized by the Department of Education और the Council लिये Higher Education Accreditation.
The school was founded with the सहायता of the Home School Legal Defense Association, and now serves as the headquarters for the organization, with which it is still closely connected.
the history of television comprises the work of numerous engineers and inventors in several देशों over many decades.
The earliest प्रस्ताव was in 1908, in a paper by A. A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the उपयोग of कैथोड rays.
The first practical demonstrations of television, however, were developed using electromechanical methods to scan, transmit, and reproduce an image.
As electronic camera and display tubes were perfected, electromechanical television gave रास्ता to all-electronic systems in nearly all अनुप्रयोग.
l'idéal Cinéma - ज़ाक Tati at Aniche opened November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active फिल्म theater in the world
A सिनेमा in Australia
A typical multiplex ( एएमसी Promenade 16 in वुडलैंड Hills, लॉस Angeles, u.S. )
A फिल्म theater ( also called a cinema, फिल्म house, फिल्मी house, film theater or चित्र house ) is a venue, usually a building, for viewing films.
Most but नहीं सब फिल्म theaters are commercial operations catering to the general public, जो attend by purchasing a ticket.
The movie is projected with a movie projector onto a विशाल projection screen at the front of the auditorium.
Most movie थिएटर are now equipped for डिजिटल cinema projection, removing the need to create और हस्तांतरण a physical film print.
Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया Norton मालिक 's Club on California State Route 41, near creston.
a motorcycle club is a group of individuals whose primary interest and activities involve motorcycles.
Lyme disease, Lyme borreliosis is an infectious disease caused by at least three species of bacteria belonging to the genus Borrelia.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in North America, whereas borrelia afzelii और Borrelia garinii cause most यूरोपीय cases.
The बीमारी is named after the towns of Lyme and Old Lyme, Connecticut, USA, जहाँ a number of cases were identified in 1975.
Although Allen steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978, the cause of the disease remained a mystery जबतक 1981, when B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy Burgdorfer.
Lyme disease is the most common tick-borne disease in the Northern Hemisphere.
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the bite of संक्रमित ticks belonging to a few प्रजाति of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
जल्दी symptoms may include fever, headache, fatigue, depression, and a characteristic गोलाकार स्किन खाज called erythema migrans ( EM ).
बाएँ untreated, later लक्षण may involve the joints, heart, and central बेचैन प्रणाली.
in most cases, the infection और its लक्षण are eliminated by antibiotics, विशेषकर if the बीमारी is treated जल्दी.
विलम्बित or अपर्याप्त treatment can lead to more गंभीर लक्षण, जिससे can be disabling and difficult to दावत.
Penises of minke whales on display at the Icelandic Phallological Museum
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a general term लिये the organs with जिससे male and hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive females दौरान copulation.
Such organs occur in many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, but males do नहीं भालू a शिश्न in every animal species, and in those species in जिससे the male करता bear a so-called penis, the penes in the various species हैं not necessarily समजात.
For उदाहरण, the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to the penis of a male insect or barnacle.
The term penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs, but not to all ; for example the intromittent organ of most cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised भुजा, and male spiders use their pedipalps.
In most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis, it रै no major function अन्य than intromission, or at तनिक conveying the sperm to the female, but in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal part of the urethra, which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the अवसर requires.
Artists and repertoire ( A & R ) is the division of a record label or म्यूज़िक प्रकाशन company that is जिम्मेदार for talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and/or songwriters.
It also अधिनियमों as a liaison between artists and the record लेबल or publishing company ; every कार्यकलाप involving artists to the point of album release is generally considered अंतर्गत the purview of, और responsibility of, A & R.
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and U.S. customary units बराबर to one-eighth of a mile, equivalent to 220 yards, 660 feet, 40 rods, or 10 chains.
The सटीक value of the furlong varies थोड़ा among English-speaking countries.
Five furlongs are लगभग 1 किलोमीटर ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ).
Since the original definition of the मीटर थी one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the परिधि of the धरती ( along the great circle coincident with the meridian of longitude passing through पेरिस ), the circumference of the Earth is परिचय 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
cr2032 lithium button cell battery
लिथियम 9 volt, AA, & AAA sizes
Lithium batteries are डिस्पोजेबल ( primary ) batteries that have lithium metal or lithium यौगिकों as an धनाग्र.
They stand apart from अन्य batteries in their high charge density ( long life ) और ऊँची cost per unit.
Depending on the design और रासायनिक यौगिकों used, lithium cells can produce voltages इससे 1.5 V ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely used in products such as portable उपभोक्ता electronic devices.
Raymond `` Ray '' चार्ल्स Jack LaMontagne ( ; born June 18, 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne रै released चार studio albums, Trouble, Till the Sun turns Black, Gossip in the Grain and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise.
He was born in नई Hampshire and थी प्रेरित to create music बाद hearing an album by Stephen stills.
Critics have compared LaMontagne 's music to that of the Band, Van Morrison, Nick Drake, and Tim Buckley.
he जीवनदान in Massachusetts with his wife and दो children.
When the Wind Blows is a अनोखा by James Patterson.
It is the precursor to The Lake House and inspired the अधिकतम Ride series.
The novel is currently set to be adapted into a movie.
The Pittsburgh Steelers यहूद founded in 1933.
Over the course of the team 's history, the team has had several लोगो जबकि wearing virtually the same uniforms over the years, with subtle changes made to give the वर्दी an updated look.
The team colors, uniforms, and logo are प्रायः ranked as being among the बेहतरीन in the NFL.
Facebook on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social नेटवर्किंग service, whose name stems from the colloquial नाम लिये the book given to students at the start of the अकादमिक year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each अन्य.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow हार्वर्ड University students Eduardo Saverin, एंड्रयू McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership थी initially limited by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड students, लकिन was विस्तारित to other कॉलेजों in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford विश्वविद्यालयों.
it धीरे added support for students at various other universities before खोलने to high school students, और आखिरकार to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत users of the साईट.
Users must register पहले using the site, after which they may create a personal profile, add other उपयोक्ता as friends, and एक्सचेंज messages, including automatic notifications जब वे update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by कार्यस्थल, स्कूल or college, or other विशेषताएँ, and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From कार्य '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, Facebook रै over one billion क्रियाशील users.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, वहीँ are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In may 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 लाख in Facebook, and जिम Breyer added $ 1 million of उसके अपना money to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com पढ़ाई ranked Facebook as the most used social networking service by विश्वव्यापी monthly क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on earth did we stalk our exes, remember हमारी co-workers ' जन्मदिन, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, ऐसे as Facebook Detox, राज्य that Facebook रै turned into a national obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of समय lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly अद्वितीय u.S. visitors in May 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population had a फेसबुक account.
Nevertheless, फेसबुक 's market growth started to स्टाल in some regions, with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States और Canada in May 2011.
फेसबुक eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook inc. began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक और trading on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15 November 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly known as The Desert फॉक्स ( Wüstenfuchs, ), was a German Field Marshal of संसार War II.
He earned the आदर of दोनो his own troops और the enemies he fought.
Rommel was a highly decorated अधिकारी in World War i and थी awarded the Pour le Mérite for his exploits on the Italian front.
In World War II, he further distinguished खुद as the commander of the 7th Panzer Division during the 1940 invasion of France.
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North African campaign established him as एक of the most able कमांडरों of the war, and earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox.
He is regarded as one of the सबसे skilled commanders of मरुस्थल warfare in the conflict.
He later commanded the जर्मनी forces opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy.
His कार्यभार never took him to the Eastern Front.
Rommel is regarded as having been a humane and professional अधिकारी.
His afrika Korps थी never accused of war crimes, and soldiers captured during his Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
Orders to kill यहूदी सैनिको, नागरिकों and captured commandos यहूद उपेक्षित.
Late in the war, Rommel was linked to the conspiracy to assassinate एडोल्फ Hitler.
Since Rommel थी a नेशनल hero, Hitler desired to eliminate him quietly.
He forced Rommel to commit आत्महत्या साथ a cyanide pill, in return लिये assurances that Rommel 's family होता नहीं be persecuted following his death.
stained glass representation of the Holy Spirit as a dove, c. 1660.
the seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors, later elaborated by five intellectual virtues और four other groups of ethical characteristics.
They are : अक्ल, understanding, wonder and awe ( fear of the Lord ), counsel, knowledge, fortitude, and piety ( reverence ).
the Earth Day ध्वज, the latest प्रस्ताव of John McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event, मनाये on April 22, on which events हैं held विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate support for पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा.
It was first celebrated in 1970, और is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network, and मनाये in more than 192 countries each year.
In 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in सैन Francisco, the तिथि proposed was March 21, 1970, the first day of वसन्त in the उत्तरी hemisphere.
इस day of nature 's equipoise थी later मंजूर in a Proclamation signed by Secretary General U thant at the United Nations.
A month later a separate Earth दिन was संस्थापित by United States सीनेटर Gaylord नेल्सन as an पर्यावरणीय teach-in first आयोजित on April 22, 1970.
Nelson थी बाद awarded the Presidential Medal of स्वतंत्रता पुरस्कार in recognition of his work.
While this April 22 Earth दिन was focused on the United States, an organization launched by Denis Hayes, who was the original नेशनल coordinator in 1970, took it international in 1990 और organized events in 141 nations.
Numerous communities celebrate Earth Week, an संपूर्ण week of क्रियाएँ focused on environmental मुद्दे.
Iodine is a chemical element with symbol I and परमाणु number 53.
The name is from Greek ioeidēs, meaning violet or purple, due to the रंग of elemental iodine vapor.
Iodine और इसके यौगिकों are primarily used in nutrition, and industrially in the उत्पादन of acetic acid and निश्चित polymers.
Iodine 's अपेक्षाकृत high atomic number, low toxicity, and आसानी of attachment to सशुल्क compounds have made it a part of many X-ray contrast सामग्री in modern medicine.
Iodine has only एक stable समस्थानिक.
A number of iodine radioisotopes हैं also used in medical अनुप्रयोग.
Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the highly water-soluble iodide आयन, I−, जिससे concentrates it in oceans और brine pools.
Like the अन्य halogens, free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic molecule I2, and then तभी momentarily after being oxidized from आयोडाइड by an oxidant like free ऑक्सीजन.
in the universe और on Earth, iodine 's high atomic number makes it a relatively rare element.
However, its presence in ocean water has दिए it a role in biology.
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by जीवन in biological functions ( only tungsten, employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria, is heavier ).
Iodine 's rarity in many soils, due to initial कम abundance as a crust-element, and also leaching of घुलनशील iodide by rainwater, रै led to अनेक deficiency problems in जमीन animals and inland human populations.
आयोडीन deficiency affects about two billion people and is the अग्रणी preventable cause of intellectual disabilities.
Iodine is required by उच्चतर animals, which use it to synthesize thyroid हार्मोन, जिससे contain the तत्व.
Because of this function, radioisotopes of iodine are concentrated in the thyroid gland along साथ nonradioactive iodine.
If inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, which has a ऊँची fission product yield, concentrates in the thyroid, लकिन is easily remedied साथ potassium iodide treatment.
Lobbying ( also लॉबी ) is the act of attempting to influence निर्णय made by officials in the government, most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies.
Lobbying is done by many different types of people और organized groups, including individuals in the private sector, corporations, fellow विधायक or government officials, or advocacy groups ( interest groups ).
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies, meaning a voter or bloc of मतदाता भीतर his or उसके electoral district, or not ; वे may engage in lobbying as a business, or not.
Professional lobbyists हैं लोगों whose business is trying to influence legislation on behalf of a group or individual who hires them.
individuals and nonprofit संगठन can भी lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small part of their normal जॉब ( for instance, a CEO meeting with a representative about a project important to his/her company, or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid क्षमता ).
Governments often define and regulate व्यवस्थित group lobbying that has become influential.
The आचार and morality of lobbying are.
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt, when the implication is कि people with inordinate socioeconomic power are corrupting the law ( twisting it away इससे fairness ) in order to serve their own विरोध of interest.
लकिन another side of lobbying is making यकीनन कि others ' रूचि are duly defended विरूद्ध others ' भ्रष्टाचार, or even simply making sure that minority interests are fairly defended विरूद्ध mere tyranny of the majority.
For example, a medical association, or a trade association of health insurance companies, may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the influence of tobacco companies, in which case the lobbying would be viewed by most people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ).
The परेशानी in आरेखण objective लाइनों between which lobbyists are `` शुभ lobbyists '' और which ones are `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with which lobbyists or उनके clients can argue that their अपना lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At दिल, the effort to influence legislation is a power struggle.
as in other forms of शक्ति संघर्ष, such as war or law enforcement, motives दायरा from to self-defense to लड़ for justice, and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization.
Sunshine of your love guitar riff
Cream were a 1960s British rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce, guitarist/vocalist eric क्लैप्टन, and drummer Ginger Baker.
Their ध्वनि थी characterised by a hybrid of blues rock, मुश्किल rock and साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, combining the psychedelia-themed गीत, Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing and vocals, Jack ब्रूस 's voice और prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming.
the group 's तीसरा album, Wheels of आग, was the world 's पहला platinum-selling दोगुना album.
Cream are widely regarded as being the world 's first successful supergroup.
In their career, they sold over 15 million albums worldwide.
Cream 's म्यूज़िक included songs based on परंपरागत blues such as `` Crossroads `` and `` Spoonful ``, and आधुनिक blues such as `` Born Under a Bad Sign ``, as well as more eccentric गीतों ऐसे as `` Strange काढ़ा ``, `` Tales of वीर Ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I महसूस Free `` ( UK, number 11 ), `` Sunshine of Your Love `` ( US, क्रमांक 5 ), `` श्वेत रूम `` ( US, number 6 ), `` Crossroads '' ( US, number 28 ), and `` बैज `` ( UK, number 18 ).
Cream made a significant impact on the लोकप्रिय music of the time, and, along साथ Jimi हेंड्रिक्स, and Terry Kath of Chicago, popularised the use of the wah-wah pedal.
They provided a heavy yet technically निपुण musical theme कि foreshadowed और influenced the emergence of British bands such as The Jeff Beck समूह in the late 1960s.
The बैंड 's live performances influenced progressive चट्टान acts such as Rush.
Cream were inducted into the Rock और फेंकें Hall of Fame in 1993.
They were included in both Rolling स्टोन and vh1 's सूचियाँ of the `` 100 महानतम Artists of All Time ''.
They were also ranked number 16 on VH1 's `` 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy फिल्मी written and निर्देशित by John waters, and starring Ricki Lake, सन्नी बोनो, डिब्बी Harry, Michael st. Gerard, Shawn Thompson, Colleen Fitzpatrick, जेरी Stiller, और in his last फिल्मी role, Divine.
Hairspray was a dramatic प्रस्थान इससे Waters ' earlier works, with a much broader intended audience.
In fact, Hairsprays pg is the mildest rating a Waters film रै प्राप्त ; सबसे of his पिछला films were rated X by the MPAA.
Set in 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, the film revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' teenager Tracy Turnblad as she pursues stardom as a dancer on a local tv show and rallies विरूद्ध जातिगत segregation.
hairspray was तभी a moderate success upon its initial theatrical release, earning a modest gross of $ 8 million.
however, it managed to attract a larger audience on home video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic.
सबसे critics praised the film, हालांकि some यहूद displeased साथ the overall campiness.
In 2002, the film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the same name, which won eight Tony Awards, including Best Musical in 2003.
A second film version of Hairspray, an adaptation of the स्टेज musical, was also released by New लकीर Cinema in 2007, which included अनेक changes of scripted items from the original.
The film also ranks # 444 on साम्राज्य magazine 's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a common नाम, structure, and doctrine within Christianity.
Some समूह included do नहीं consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the Catholic गिरिजाघर considers itself the one true गिरिजाघर and the अपोस्टोलिक See, and as pre-denominational ).
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being पुकारा a denomination and do not have any formal denominational structure, authority, or record-keeping beyond the local सभा ; several groups within Restoration Movement पतन into this category.
Some groups हैं large ( e.g. Catholics, lutherans, Anglicans or baptists ), while others are just a few small churches, और in most cases the relative आकार is नहीं evident in this list.
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity, Pietism, Evangelicalism, pentecostalism and the पवित्रता movement sometimes cross denominational लाइनों, or in some cases create नई denominations आउट of two or more continuing groups, ( as is the case लिये many United and uniting churches, for example ).
Such subtleties and complexities are not clearly चित्रित here.
Major विभाजन within Christianity.
Note : This is not a complete सूची, but aims to provide a comprehensible overview of the diversity among denominations of christianity.
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations, अनेक of which can not be verified to be significant, only those denominations साथ Wikipedia articles होगा be सूचीबद्ध in order to ensure that all entries on this list are notable और verifiable.
between denominations, theologians, and तुलनात्मक religionists there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly called ईसाई, disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups.
For the purpose of simplicity, this सूची is intended to reflect the self-understanding of each denomination.
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as Christian denominations can be found at their respective articles.
There is no आधिकारिक recognition in सबसे parts of the world for religious लाशें, और there is no official clearinghouse which could determine the औकात or respectability of religious bodies.
Often there is considerable disagreement between विभिन्न चर्च about whether other churches should be labeled with pejorative terms ऐसे as `` cult '', or परिचय whether this or कि group enjoys some measure of respectability.
Such considerations often vary इससे प्लेस to place, जहाँ one religious group may enjoy majority status in one region, लकिन be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the संसार.
Inclusion on this सूची does नहीं indicate any निर्णय about the size, importance, or character of a group or इसके members.
1804 map of `` Louisiana ``, edged on the west by the Rocky kyu.
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` बिक्री of Louisiana '' ) थी the acquisition by the United States of America in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana.
the U.S. सशुल्क 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), for a total sum of 15 लाख dollars ( less than 3 cents per acre ) for the louisiana territory ( $ million in डॉलर, less than 42 cents per acre ).
The Louisiana territory encompassed all or भाग of 15 present U.S. states और two कनाडाई provinces.
The land purchased contained सब of present-day Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa, ओक्लाहोमा, Kansas, और Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South डकोटा ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern टेक्सास ; the portions of Montana, Wyoming, और कोलोराडो ईस्ट of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; Louisiana west of the Mississippi River, including the city of New Orleans ; और छोटी portions of जमीन that would eventually become part of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
France controlled this विशाल area from 1699 जबतक 1762, the year it gave the territory to इसके ally Spain.
Under नेपोलियन Bonaparte, France took back the territory in 1800 in the hope of building an empire in North America.
A स्लेव विद्रोह in Haiti and an impending war with Britain, however, led फ़्रांस to abandon these plans and sell the संपूर्ण territory to the संयुक्त States, जो था originally intended only to seek the खरीदें of New Orleans and its adjacent lands.
The खरीदें of the territory of Louisiana took place दौरान the presidency of Thomas जेफरसन.
At the time, the purchase faced domestic opposition because it थी thought to be असंवैधानिक.
Although he सहमत that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions लिये acquiring territory, Jefferson decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in order to हटाएँ France 's presence in the region and to protect दोनो U.S. trade अभिगम to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River.
Ceremony at Place d'Armes, New Orleans अंकन transfer of Louisiana to the संयुक्त States, 10 March 1804, as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup.
`` Cool झटका '' is a लोकप्रिय song written by Donald Storball and originally performed by The Capitols.
Released in 1966, it reached no. 2 on the American R & B chart and No. 7 on the पॉप chart.
The backing track लिये इस song was actually recorded ( secretly ) by the motown house बैंड The Funk Brothers.
Per one of the Funk Brothers, the song was originally to be called `` Pimp झटका. ''
This was taken from watching पड़ोस pimps, who होता dance in the क्लब, but यहूद too `` cool '' to do the झटका like नियमित folks.
Their version was subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk. ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word pimp in the title would be बैन or not receive much positive attention, and had the title changed to its current form.
The Go-Go 's, Todd Rundgren, Big Trouble, Human Sexual Response, The la De Da 's, The Creation, and The Coasters have covered the song.
टॉड Rundgren did his version in an odd time signature ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky महसूस to the सोंग.
The Go-Go 's covered the song for their 1982 album Vacation and later re-recorded it for उनके 1990 album Greatest.
In the feature film घर Alone 2 : Lost in New York, Uncle फ़्रैंक ( Gerry Bamman ) sings `` Cool Jerk '' in the shower.
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` do the Cool Whip '' ) is used in Cool Whip commercials.
a recording of `` Cool Jerk '' by Ricardo Ray is featured in the feature फिल्मी Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
The song features in the film Standing in the Shadows of Motown, performed by the दुर्गंध भाइयो साथ सीसे vocals by Bootsy Collins.
The song is heard briefly in the animated विशेषता, Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most चाही.
Despite इस reason, it is listed in some variations of the film 's soundtrack.
A league is a unit of length ( or, rarely, area ).
It was long common in Europe and Latin America, but it is no longer an official ईकाई in any nation.
The league originally referred to the अलहदा a person could walk in an hour.
Since the मध्य Ages, many values have been specified in several देशों.
In the context of nautical दूरियाँ, the 3 मील ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of average height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level.
Thus, a ship traveling one `` लीग '' रै reached कया was previously the farthest दृश्य distance on the क्षितिज.
The lack of a ऐतिहासिक and global standard for the exact measure of a `` लीग '' can be accounted for by the variable elevation of the निरीक्षक ( i.e., sightings इससे a ship 's डेक vs. masthead ).
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State, a dominion of the British Commonwealth, having seceded from the United Kingdom under the anglo-irish Treaty.
It comprises 26 of आयरलैंड 's 32 counties.
चूंकि 1949 it has existed as the गणतंत्र of Ireland.
From its foundation, the Irish Free State थी embroiled in a civil war between nationalists supporting the Treaty and opponents who supported a गणतंत्र.
the pro-Treaty side, organised as cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious from the विरोध and won subsequent elections.
They formed the government of the state until 1932, when they peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty faction in fianna Fáil, who defeated them in an election.
The Irish state, despite its हिंसक beginnings, रै remained a liberal democracy throughout its existence.
a new constitution in 1937 removed many of the links with Britain established under the Treaty and Ireland 's neutrality in the Second World युद्ध demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain.
In 1948 Ireland formally left the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth and adopted the title of `` Republic ''.
in the economic sphere, the आयरिश state has had a मिश्रित performance.
On independence, it was one of the wealthier countries in यूरोपीय per head of population.
however it also inherited इससे British rule the समस्याएं of unemployment, करणों, uneven geographical development और lack of a native industrial आधार.
For much of its इतिहास, the state struggled to rectify ये problems.
Particular peaks of emigration were recorded दौरान the लेट 1930s, 1950s और 1980s, जब the Irish economy recorded little growth.
In the 1930s, Fianna Fáil सरकारें attempted to create आयरिश domestic industries using subsidies and protective tarifs.
in the late 1950s, ये policies were dropped in favour of free trade with selected countries and encouraging of foreign investment with low taxes.
This was expanded when Ireland entered the European Economic Community in 1972.
in the 1990s and 2000s, Ireland experienced an आर्थिक boom known as the Celtic Tiger, in which the देश 's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours.
Immigration भी surpassed emigration, bringing the state 's population up to over 4 million.
However, चूंकि 2008, Ireland has experienced a कठोर crisis in the banking सेक्टर and with sovereign debt.
the resultant economic slump रै deepened the effect of the world recession on Ireland.
From 1937 to 1998, the Irish संविधान included a अर्जी on Northern Ireland as a part of the नेशनल territory.
However, the राज्य also opposed and used its सुरक्षा forces against those armed groups - principally the Provisional आयरिश Republican Army, जो आजमाया to unite Ireland by force.
This occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s और 1980s and has जारी on a reduced scale.
Irish सरकारें meanwhile tried to broker an agreement to the conflict known as The Troubles within उत्तरी आयरलैंड from 1968 to the लेट 1990s.
The British government officially recognised the right of the Irish government to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985.
In 1998, as part of the Good Friday Agreement, the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to Northern Ireland and instead extend the सही of Irish citizenship to सब the people of the island चाहिए they wish to have it.
John Quincy Adams ( July 11, 1767February 23, 1848 ) was the sixth अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1825–1829 ).
he परोसा as अमरीकी diplomat, Senator, and Congressional representative.
He थी a member of the Federalist, Democratic-Republican, नेशनल रिपब्लिकन, and later anti-masonic और Whig parties.
Adams was the बेटे of former President John Adams और Abigail Adams.
As a diplomat, Adams played an important role in negotiating अनेक international treaties, most notably the Treaty of ghent, जिससे ended the War of 1812.
as सचिव of State, he negotiated with the संयुक्त Kingdom over America 's northern किनारा साथ Canada, negotiated with Spain the annexation of Florida, and authored the Monroe Doctrine.
इतिहासकारों agree he थी एक of the greatest diplomats और secretaries of state in American history.
As president, he sought to modernize the American economy and promoted शिक्षा.
Adams enacted a part of his कार्यसूची and paid off much of the national debt.
He was stymied by a कॉंग्रेस controlled by उसके enemies, and उसके lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut उसे.
He lost his 1828 bid for re-election to Andrew जैक्सन.
in doing so, he became the पहला president since his पिता to serve a single term.
Adams is बेहतरीन known as a diplomat who तराशा America 's foreign policy in line with his ardently nationalist commitment to America 's republican values.
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed Adams as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization.
During एडम्स ' आजीवन, technological innovations and new अर्थात् of communication spread messages of religious पुनरुद्धार, social reform, और पार्टी politics.
Goods, money, and people traveled more rapidly और efficiently than ever before.
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative इससे Massachusetts after leaving office, serving for the last 17 years of his life with far greater acclamation than he had achieved as president.
He is, so far, the only अध्यक्ष later elected to the United States हाउस of Representatives ( हालांकि जॉन Tyler was elected to the House of Representatives of the Confederate राज्य just before his death in 1862 ).
एनिमेटेड by उसके growing revulsion against slavery, एडम्स became a leading प्रतिद्वन्दी of the Slave Power.
he पूर्वानुमानित that if a civil war यहूद to break out, the president could abolish slavery by using his युद्ध powers.
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery issue, but said that if the South became independent वहीँ would be a series of bloody slave revolts.
खिड़कियाँ Internet एक्सप्लोरर 9 ( ie9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web browser from Microsoft.
It was released to the public on March 14, 2011.
Microsoft रै released Internet Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band version that is not tied to the release schedule of any particular version of Windows, unlike previous संस्करण.
It is the first संस्करण चूंकि अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 2 to not be bundled with a Windows operating प्रणाली, although some OEMs have installed it with Windows 7 on their PCs, as खूब as new Windows 7 laptops.
The system आवश्यकताएँ for अंतरजाल Explorer 9 are खिड़कियाँ 7, Windows Server 2008 r2, Windows Vista Service Pack 2 or Windows Server 2008 SP2 with the Platform Update.
Windows xp और earlier हैं not समर्थित.
Internet Explorer 9 is the पिछला संस्करण of अंतरजाल Explorer to be समर्थित on Windows Vista.
Both IA-32 and x64 builds are available.
Internet Explorer 9 supports several CSS 3 गुण, embedded आईसीसी v2 or v4 color profiles support via खिड़कियाँ रंग प्रणाली, and has improved JavaScript performance.
It is the पिछला of the five major web browsers to implement support for Scalable Vector Graphics ( svg ).
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D, hardware-accelerated text रेंडरिंग using DirectWrite, hardware-accelerated video rendering using Media Foundation, imaging support provided by Windows Imaging Component, and ऊँची fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline.
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the HTML5 video and audio tags and the Web Open Font स्वरूप.
alka-seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company.
It was developed by मौरिस Treener, head केमिस्ट at Miles, in Elkhart, इंडियाना.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of नाबालिग aches, pains, inflammation, fever, headache, heartburn, खट्टा पेट, indigestion, and hangovers, while neutralizing excess stomach acid.
It थी शुभारम्भ in 1931.
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and flu, Alka-Seltzer Plus, was बाद introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant, Alka-Mints, was introduced in 1994 and discontinued in 1997.
Alka-Seltzer is currently owned by बायर Schering फार्मा AG, Germany.
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' रै been विस्तारित to incorporate an entire line of medications sold over the counter and taken by means of rapidly dissolving tablets that रूप a carbonated solution in water.
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus Tablet dissolving in water
चित्र प्रर्दशित the six most आम speleothems साथ labels.
Enlarge to view labels.
A stalactite (, ; from the यूनानी stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', और meaning `` कि which drips '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem ( secondary खनिज ) that hangs इससे the ceiling of limestone गुफाएं.
It is a type of dripstone.
the corresponding formation on the floor of the cave is ज्ञात as a stalagmite.
Degree abbreviations हैं used as an alternative way to बताएँ an academic उपाधि instead of spelling आउट the title in full, such as in reference books like Who 's Who and on business cards.
Many degrees have more than one abbreviation.
In the UK, it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for degrees with full stops ( e.g. `` BSc '' rather than `` b.sc. ``.
Race is a वर्गीकरण system used to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical, cultural, ethnic, genetic, geographical, ऐतिहासिक, linguistic, religious, or social affiliation.
First used to denote national affiliations, the term began to be used to सुनाना to physical traits in the 17th century.
in the early 20th century the term थी often used, in a taxonomic sense, to denote genetically differentiated इंसान populations defined by phenotype.
While biologists sometimes उपयोग the concept of रेस to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits, others in the scientific community suggest that the विचार of race often is used in a भोली or simplistic way, i.e. that among humans, race रै no taxonomic significance : सब living इंसानो belong to the same species, Homo sapiens and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary over time, involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals based on perceived traits.
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete, और generally discourage जातिगत explanations लिये collective differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the ideologies और theories that grew out of the कार्य of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists has led to the use of the word रेस itself becoming समस्यापूर्ण.
Although still used in general contexts, it is now often replaced by अन्य words which are कम ambiguous और emotionally चार्ज, such as populations, people ( s ), ethnic समूह or communities depending on context.
Lucy Stone ( August 13, 1818 – October 19, 1893 ) was a prominent American abolitionist and suffragist, and a vocal advocate and आयोजक promoting rights for महिलाओं.
In 1847, स्टोन became the first woman from Massachusetts to earn a college degree.
She spoke out for women 's rights and against slavery at a time जब women were हतोत्साहित and prevented from public speaking.
Stone was the first recorded अमरीकी woman to retain her own last नाम बाद marriage.
Stone 's organizational क्रियाएँ लिये the cause of महिलाओं 's rights yielded tangible gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century.
Stone helped initiate the first National महिलाओं 's Rights सम्मेलन and वो समर्थित और sustained it annually along with a number of अन्य local, state and regional activist conventions.
Stone spoke in front of a क्रमांक of विधान bodies to promote कानून giving more rights to women.
वो assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery, बाद which वो helped form the largest group of like-minded women 's rights reformers, the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association, which worked लिये decades at the state level in favor of women 's सही to vote.
Stone wrote extensively about a wide दायरा of women 's rights, publishing and distributing speeches by herself and others, and convention कार्यवाही.
In the long-running और influential स्त्री 's जर्नल, a weekly periodical कि she established and प्रचारित, Stone aired both her own and differing views about women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the स्त्री 's rights movement '', Stone delivered a speech which sparked Susan B. एंथोनी to take up the cause of women 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady stanton लिखा that `` Lucy Stone was the first person by whom the heart of the American public थी deeply stirred on the स्त्री question. ''
Together, Anthony, Stanton, and Stone have been called the 19th सदी `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
In finance, a bond is an यंत्र of indebtedness of the bond issuer to the holders.
It is a कर्ज़ security, under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and, depending on the शर्तें of the bond, is obliged to pay them ब्याज ( the कूपन ) or to repay the principal at a later date, termed the maturity.
Interest is usually payable at fixed intervals ( semiannual, annual, sometimes monthly ).
Very often the bond is परक्राम्य, i.e. the ownership of the instrument can be transferred in the secondary market.
Thus a bond is a form of ऋण or IOU : the होल्डर of the bond is the lender ( creditor ), the issuer of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ), and the coupon is the interest.
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance long-term investments, or, in the case of government bonds, to finance current expenditure.
प्रमाणपत्र of deposit ( cds ) or short term वाणिज्यिक paper are माना to be money market instruments and not bonds : the main difference is in the लंबाई of the term of the यंत्र.
Bonds and stocks are both प्रतिभूति, but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e. they are owners ), whereas bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e. they are lenders ).
Another difference is कि bonds usually have a defined term, or maturity, after which the bond is redeemed, whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely.
An exception is an irredeemable बंध, such as Consols, जिससे is a perpetuity, i.e. a bond with no maturity.
a scale model of the मीनार of London.
इस model can be found inside the tower.
स्केल model of water powered turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at नीचे : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet tahoe, 1:43 Ford F-100, 1:25 revell Monogram 1999 घाट mustang Cobra, 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
Model जहाजों and castle
A scale model is a physical model, a representation or copy of an object कि is larger or छोटी than the वास्तविक size of the object, which seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical आकार of the original object.
Very often the scale मॉडल is प्रयुक्त as a मार्गदर्शिका to बनाना the ऑब्जेक्ट in पूरा size.
Scale models are built or collected for many reasons.
The zune HD थी a पोर्टेबल media खिलाड़ी in the Zune उत्पाद परिवार released on September 15, 2009 by microsoft.
It was a direct competitor with the Apple iPod and iPhone series of mobile devices.
It was initially released in 16 and 32 GB capacities.
a 64 GB version was released on April 9, 2010.
It utilized a touchscreen interface for नेविगेशन and शामिल Wi-Fi लिये तुल्यकालन, access to the zune मार्केटप्लेस and Web browsing.
the Zune HD utilized the Nvidia Tegra apx 2600 chip, allowing it to खेल 720p video through the वैकल्पिक HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, सामग्री होता be scaled down to 480x272 pixels on the player 's OLED टचस्क्रीन.
Old sparky, the electric chair used at Sing Sing prison
Execution by electrocution, usually performed using an electric chair, is an execution method originating in the United States in which the condemned person is strapped to a विशेषकर built wooden chair और electrocuted through electrodes placed on the देह.
This execution method was created by employees of Thomas Edison during the युद्ध of currents, और has been used only in the United States and, for a period of several decades, in the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation, last in 1976 ).
historically, once the condemned व्यक्ति was attached to the chair, various cycles ( differing in voltage and duration ) of alternating वर्तमान would be passed through the individual 's देह, in order to कारण fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ).
The first jolt of electric current was designed to कारण तात्कालिक unconsciousness और brain death ; the दूसरी one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital अंगों.
Death was frequently caused by विद्युत overstimulation of the heart.
हालांकि in the United States the electric chair has become a प्रतीक of the death penalty, इसके use is in मनाही due to the rise of lethal injection, जिससे is widely believed to be a अधिक humane method of execution.
Although some states स्टिल maintain electrocution as a विधि of execution, today it is only maintained as a द्वितीयक method that may be chosen over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner.
as of 2010, electrocution is an optional form of execution in Alabama, Florida, South Carolina and Virginia.
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal इंजेक्शन as an alternative method.
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee, the electric chair has महरूम रिटायर्ड except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( केंटकी : March 31, 1998 ; टेनेसी : December 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
In दोनो states, inmates who do not choose electrocution or inmates who committed their अपराधों बाद the designated date are killed by lethal इंजेक्शन.
the electric chair is an alternate form of निष्पादन स्वीकृत for potential उपयोग in Arkansas और Oklahoma if other forms of execution are found असंवैधानिक in the state at the समय of execution.
It is the sole method of निष्पादन in वर्मांट, where treason is the only capital crime.
On February 8, 2008, the Nebraska Supreme Court determined कि execution by electric chair थी a `` बेदर्द and unusual दंड '' under the state 's constitution.
This brought executions of this type to an end in Nebraska, the only remaining state to retain electrocution as its एकमात्र method of execution लिये murder.
The Maryland House of delegates is the lower हाउस of the General Assembly, the state legislature of the American State of Maryland, और is composed of 141 Delegates निर्वाचित from 47 districts.
The हाउस of Delegates कक्ष is located in the Maryland State House ( state capitol ) on State Circle in Annapolis, जिससे is the state capital.
The राज्य House also घरों the Maryland State Senate Chamber and the offices of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of Maryland.
प्रत्येक Delegate has कार्यालयों in Annapolis, in the nearby Casper R. टेलर, Jr. House Office Building.
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle लिये Paris ) took place during World War II from 19 August 1944 until the आत्मसमर्पण of the occupying जर्मनी garrison on 25 August.
The मुक्ति of Paris प्रारंभ with an uprising by the French Resistance against the German गैरीसन.
On 24 अगस्त, the French Forces of the Interior ( Forces françaises de l'intérieur, FFI ) received reinforcements from the Free फ्रेंच Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third फौज under सामान्य Patton.
The पूंजी प्रदेश of France had been governed by नाजी Germany चूंकि the हस्ताक्षर of the Second Compiègne Armistice in जून 1940, when the German Army occupied northern and westernmost फ़्रांस, and when the कठपुतली regime of Vichy फ़्रांस was established in the town of vichy in central फ़्रांस.
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the निर्वासन of the Vichy government to Sigmaringen in Germany.
However, there was स्टिल much heavy fighting to be done पहले France थी liberated, including the अभियान in दक्षिणी फ़्रांस during August-September ( in provence and extending into the southwestern region of the Vosges Mountains ), along the German-held seaports of western फ़्रांस ( such as at brest and Dunkirk ), in alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, and in northeastern फ़्रांस, such as along the राइन and moder Rivers.
The German Army and ss fought doggedly in these areas for the remainder of 1944 and into 1945.
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling Alright '' is a सोंग written by Dave Mason of the अंग्रेज़ी rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 एल्बम, Traffic.
The सोंग थी also a hit single for several performers : Joe cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, US # 33 ), Mongo santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) और Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971, us # 54 ).
It रै also महरूम recorded by तीन Dog Night ( 1969 ), The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ), Lou राल्स, Freddie किंग, Paul weller, Lulu, chairmen of the फलक ( 1970 ), Rare Earth, The इलेक्ट्रिक Concept Orchestra, Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ), The Ohio Players ( 1971 ), डायना Ross with the जैक्सन 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo Parker, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Widespread दहशत and The ब्लैक crowes.
A स्टील Drum version by Trinidad Oil कम्पनी was reissued on the dancefloor jazz compilation Blue Juice 2.
It was also featured in the 2000 film Duets, sung by Huey लुईस.
दोनो the original and the Joe Cocker cover यहूद featured in the फिल्म Flight, starring डेंज़ल Washington.
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor, voice कर्ता, singer, songwriter and musician, best known लिये his अभिनीत role as Ned Bigby on the Nickelodeon sitcom Ned 's Declassified School अस्तित्व मार्गदर्शिका and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie shredderman Rules, as the lead character नोलन Byrd.
werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the fourth and final season of the ABC परिवार show Greek.
Sample view of an electronic health रिकार्ड based on images
Sample view of an electronic health रिकार्ड
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving अवधारणा defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information परिचय individual मरीजों or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically capable of being shared across different स्वास्थ्य परवाह जमावट.
In कुछ cases इस sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना systems और other सूचना networks or exchanges.
ehrs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical इतिहास, medication and allergies, immunization status, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital signs, निजी stats जैसे age and weight, and बिलिंग information.
ऋण origination is the process by which a borrower applies लिये a नई ऋण, and a lender processes that application.
Origination generally includes all the steps from लेने a loan application up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ).
Loan सर्विसिंग covers सबकुछ after disbursing the funds जबतक the loan is fully सशुल्क off.
Loan origination is a specialized version of नई account opening for वित्तीय services संगठन.
Certain people and organizations specialize in ऋण origination.
Mortgage brokers and अन्य mortgage originator companies serve as a prominent example.
There हैं many different types of loans.
लिये more information on loan types, see the loan and consumer lending articles.
Steps involved in originating a loan vary by loan type, various kinds of loan risk, नियामक, lender policy, and other factors.
Top left : The Tennessee Valley प्राधिकार, भाग of the New Deal, होने signed into law in 1933.
Top right : Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who was responsible लिये पहलों and programs collectively known as the नई Deal.
Bottom : a public mural इससे one of the artists employed by the New Deal.
The नई Deal was a series of economic programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936.
They involved अध्यक्षीय कार्यपालिका orders or laws passed by कॉंग्रेस दौरान the first term of President फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt.
The कार्यक्रम were in response to the ग्रेट Depression, and केन्द्रित on what historians कॉल the `` 3 rs '' : Relief, Recovery, and Reform.
That is Relief लिये the unemployed and poor ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels ; and Reform of the financial system to prevent a repeat depression.
the New Deal उत्पादित a राजनैतिक realignment, बनाना the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the पार्टी that held the White House for seven out of nine Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ), with its base in liberal ideas, the white South, traditional Democrats, big city machines, and the newly empowered labor संघ और ethnic minorities.
The republicans were split, साथ conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as an enemy of business and growth, and उदारवादियों accepting some of it and promising to make it more कुशल.
The realignment crystallized into the नई Deal Coalition that dominated most presidential elections into the 1960s, while the विपक्ष रूढ़िवादी Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was used for supporters of the New Deal, and `` रूढ़िवादी `` for its opponents.
From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt was assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” majority in Congress ( drawn from two-party, competitive, non-machine, प्रगतिशील, और Left party districts ).
As विख्यात by Alexander Hicks, “Roosevelt, backed by rare, non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-Southern Democrat प्रतिनिधि and 71 non-Southern Democrat सीनेटरों — spelled Second New Deal reform.”
Many इतिहासकारों distinguish between a `` First नई सौदे '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New Deal '' ( 1935–38 ), साथ the second one more liberal and more controversial.
the `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt साथ diverse groups, from banking and railroads to industry और farming, all of which demanded सहायता लिये economic survival.
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration, for उदाहरण, provided $ 500 million for relief operations by राज्य और cities, while the short-lived CWA ( Civil Works Administration ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34.
the `` Second New सौदे `` in 1935–38 included the वेगनर Act to promote labor unions, the Works Progress प्रशासन ( wpa ) relief program ( जिससे made the संघीय government by far the largest single employer in the nation ), the Social Security अधिनियम, and नई programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers.
The final प्रमुख वस्तुएं of New Deal legislation were the creation of the संयुक्त राज्य Housing Authority and Farm Security Administration, both in 1937, and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, which set maximum hours and minimum wages for most categories of मजदूर.
The economic downturn of 1937–38, and the bitter विभाजित between the AFL and cio labor unions led to प्रमुख Republican gains in Congress in 1938.
Conservative Republicans and डेमोक्रेट in Congress joined in the informal Conservative Coalition.
By 1942–43 they shut down relief programs such as the WPA and CCC और blocked major liberal proposals.
Roosevelt खुद turned his ध्यान to the war effort, और won reelection in 1940 and 1944.
the Supreme अदालत declared the National रिकवरी Administration ( NRA ) and the पहला version of the agricultural Adjustment Act ( AAA ) unconstitutional, however the AAA थी rewritten and then upheld.
as the first रिपब्लिकन president elected बाद FDR, Dwight D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) left the नई Deal largely intact, even expanding it in कुछ areas.
in the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the नई Deal as inspiration for a dramatic expansion of liberal programs, which Republican रिचर्ड M. Nixon generally retained.
बाद 1974, however, the call for deregulation of the economy gained bipartisan support.
the नई Deal विनियमन of बैंकिंग ( Glass–Steagall Act ) was suspended in the 1990s.
Many New सौदे programs remain क्रियाशील, with some स्टिल operating under the original names, सहित the संघीय Deposit Insurance Corporation ( fdic ), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ), the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ), और the Tennessee Valley प्राधिकार ( TVA ).
the largest programs स्टिल in existence today are the Social Security System and the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).
A woman ( ), pl : women ( ) is a female human.
The term स्त्री is usually reserved for an adult, with the term girl being the usual term for a मादा child or adolescent.
however, the term woman is also sometimes used to identify a female human, regardless of age, as in phrases such as `` Women 's rights ``.
Women हैं typically capable of giving birth, though older women who have gone through menopause and some intersex महिलाओं can not.
`` I Do n't Want to मिस a Thing '' is a song performed by American चट्टान बैंड Aerosmith for the 1998 film Armageddon.
Written by Diane Warren, the song debuted at number one on the Billboard hot 100 ( the first # 1 for the band after 28 सालो साथ ).
the song stayed at number एक for चार सप्ताह from September 5 to September 26, 1998.
The सोंग भी stayed at number 1 for several weeks in several other countries.
In the UK, the song peaked at number चार, becoming Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the UK, जहाँ it was the 17th best-selling सिंगल of 1998, and रै sold over a million copies.
हालांकि not used by the majority of the world 's countries, daylight छायांकन time is आम in the पश्चिमी संसार.
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time in British English — is the practice of advancing clocks during the lighter months so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less.
Typically clocks are adjusted forward एक घंटा near the start of spring and are adjusted पिछड़ा in autumn.
The modern idea of daylight saving was first proposed in 1895 by George Vernon Hudson and it was first implemented during the First World War.
Many countries have used it at various times since then.
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s और 1960s, and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy crisis and has been widely प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका and Europe since तब.
the अभ्यास has महरूम दोनो praised and criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings लाभ retailing, sports, and other activities कि exploit sunlight after working hours, but can cause problems for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun.
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce संध्या usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a primary use of electricity ), modern heating और कूलिंग usage patterns differ greatly, and शोध परिचय कैसा DST फिलहाल affects energy use is limited or contradictory.
DST क्लॉक shifts present अन्य चुनौतियां.
They complicate timekeeping, and can disrupt बैठक, travel, billing, record keeping, medical devices, heavy equipment, और sleep patterns.
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically, but this can be limited और error-prone, particularly when dst dates are changed.
Floorplan of the Château de Montargis
Montargis is a commune in the Loiret department in north-central फ़्रांस on the Loing river.
The town is located about दक्षिण of Paris and east of Orléans in the Gâtinais.
Montargis is the second largest नगर in the loiret, after Orléans.
It is near a large forest, and contains लाइट industry and farming, including saffron.
Due to इसके numerous canals और bridges, Montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of the gâtinais. ''
Though quite modern, it retains a medieval आकर्षण in its downtown area.
In कंप्यूटर storage, a logical unit number, or LUN, is a number used to identify a logical unit, जिससे is a device addressed by the SCSI protocol or protocols which encapsulate SCSI, ऐसे as fibre Channel or iSCSI.
A LUN may be प्रयुक्त with कोई device which supports read/write operations, such as a tape drive, but is most often used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN.
हालांकि not technically correct, the term `` LUN '' is प्रायः also प्रयुक्त to refer to the logical disk itself.
The Gospel According to Mark (,, to euangelion kata Markon ), commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark or बस Mark, is the second किताब of the New Testament.
This canonical account of the life of Jesus of Nazareth is one of the three synoptic gospels.
it was thought to be an epitome, which accounts for its प्लेस as the second gospel in the Bible.
however, most contemporary scholars now regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That Mark was प्रयुक्त as a source for the other synoptic gospels Gospel of Matthew and Gospel of Luke is widely held by many, although not all, New Testament scholars.
the Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus इससे his baptism by John the Baptist to his मौत and resurrection.
It focuses particularly on the last week of his life ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem.
Its swift narrative portrays Jesus as a heroic man of action, an exorcist, healer and miracle कार्यकर्ता.
An महत्वपूर्ण theme of Mark is the Messianic Secret.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, tries unsuccessfully to keep his मुक्तिदाता identity रहस्य, and conceals his message with parables.
Meanwhile, the disciples fail to understand दोनो the implication of the miracles of Jesus and the अर्थ of the things he predicts about his गिरफ़्तार, death and resurrection.
Most विद्वानों believe that the original टेक्स्ट of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 with the discovery of Jesus ' empty tomb and कि the following खाता of his resurrection दिखावे is a बाद जोड.
According to tradition and some early church लेखक, the author is Mark the Evangelist, the companion of the apostle पीटर.
The gospel, however, appears to rely on several underlying sources, varying in form and in theology, जिससे tells against the tradition कि the gospel थी आधारित on पीटर 's preaching.
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness खाते as खूब as known apostolic preachings, and pre-existing written records that do not exist today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century टीकाकारों.
Some of the कहानियां in the gospel may have been transmitted orally before being written down.
विभिन्न elements within the gospel सुझाएँ that the author wrote in Syria or Palestine लिये a non-jewish Christian community.
The Lord of the Rings is an epic high काल्पनिक novel written by English philologist and University of Oxford professor J. R. R. tolkien.
The स्टोरी began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937 children 's fantasy novel The Hobbit, but eventually developed into a much larger work.
It was written in stages between 1937 and 1949, much of it during World War II.
It is the second best-selling novel ever लिखा, साथ over 150 million नक़ल बेची.
The title of the novel refers to the स्टोरी 's main विपक्षी, the Dark Lord Sauron, who had in an earlier age created the One रिंग to rule the other Rings of Power as the ultimate हथियार in his अभियान to conquer and नियम all of Middle-earth.
इससे quiet beginnings in the Shire, a Hobbit land not unlike the English countryside, the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth, following the कोर्स of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, notably the hobbits Frodo Baggins, Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee, Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck और Peregrin `` pippin '' Took, but also the hobbits ' chief allies and यात्राएं companions : Aragorn, a Human Ranger ; boromir, a man from Gondor ; Gimli, a Dwarf warrior ; legolas, an Elven prince ; and Gandalf, a Wizard.
the work was initially intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume नियत, with the अन्य होने The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
It was decided for economic reasons to प्रकाशित The Lord of the Rings as three volumes over the course of a year from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955, thus creating the now familiar Lord of the बजती त्रयी.
The three volumes यहूद entitled the फेलोशिप of the Ring, the Two Towers, and The Return of the किंग.
Structurally, the novel is विभाजित internally into six books, two प्रति volume, with several appendices of background material included at the end of the third volume.
The Lord of the Rings has since been reprinted numerous times and translated into many भाषाएं.
Tolkien 's work रै been the विषय of extensive analysis of its themes and origins.
Although a major work in itself, the story was तभी the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien था worked on चूंकि 1917, in a process he described as mythopoeia.
Influences on this पहले कार्य, and on the story of The Lord of the Rings, include philology, mythology, religion and the author 's distaste for the effects of industrialization, as well as earlier काल्पनिक works और tolkien 's experiences in World युद्ध I.
The Lord of the बजती in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on modern काल्पनिक ; the प्रभाव of Tolkien 's works is ऐसे that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
The enduring popularity of The रब of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture, the founding of many समाजों by fans of tolkien 's works, and the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works.
The Lord of the Rings has inspired, and continues to inspire, artwork, music, films और television, video खेल, and subsequent literature.
award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been made लिये radio, theatre, and फिल्मी.
the following is an episode list for the Nickelodeon sitcom Drake & Josh.
The श्रेणी debuted on January 11, 2004.
a tv फिल्मी Merry Christmas, Drake & Josh was बना apart from the regular series on दिसम्बर 5, 2008.
There हैं a total of 60 episodes were produced spanning four seasons.
Drake Bell, जोश Peck, and Miranda cosgrove were the तभी actors to appear in all 60 एपीसोड.
The San फ्रांसिस्को 49ers conduct training camp at the टोली 's headquarters और अभ्यास facility in सांता Clara, California in August 2010.
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the exception of quarterback Alex Smith, who is in a black jersey ; the रक्षा in white.
in the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग, training camp refers to the time before the season commences.
दौरान this time, teams होगा sometimes congregate at an outside location, usually a विश्वविद्यालयों, to conduct training camp for at least the first few सप्ताह.
This is similar to baseball 's spring training.
Training camp is used in several different तरीके.
New players and coaches use it to acclimate themselves to नई teammates और systems.
For younger players, it serves as a period of evaluation ; for veterans, it is time to round back into form.
Training शिविर is divided into several different components.
The first is scrimmages.
These are pseudo-games where teams run nearly full games ' worth of plays.
Sometimes, two practice sessions are held on the वही day.
This concept is referred to as two-a-days.
अन्य parts of प्रशिक्षण शिविर include drills, meetings साथ कोच और other players at एक 's स्थिति, weight training, and pre-season games.
the latter half of प्रशिक्षण camp leads directly into the exhibition ऋतु.
With NFL training camps starting in late-July, the biggest concern has been dehydration.
in 2001, Minnesota Vikings player Korey Stringer died of a चिकित्सा condition based from dehydration and heatstroke.
The मौत of stringer prompted the एनएफएल to change their training policies.
At each practice, every टोली must have the team doctor और trainers on the फ़ील्ड ; additionally, an ambulance must be present during practices.
With एनएफएल training camps beginning in late July, severe weather can affect अभ्यास and exhibition खेल.
In 2002, a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to बिजली निकट Cleveland भूरा Stadium, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to catch an जल्दी dekh at the players ; admission to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game ticket, making प्रशिक्षण camp यात्राएँ a popular विकल्प लिये fans who can not attend अनेक खेल due to financial or other कारण.
एनएफएल teams often sell कलाकृतियां and concessions at camp sites along with offering क्रियाएँ and events to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience.
In computing, a file system ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store which can be used to store, retrieve और update a set of files.
the term could refer to the abstract आंकड़ा structures प्रयुक्त to define files, or to the actual software or firmware components that implement the abstract ideas.
Some file systems are used on local data storage devices ; others provide file अभिगम via a network protocol ( e.g. nfs, SMB, or 9p clients ).
कुछ file systems are `` आभासी '', in that the `` files '' supplied are computed on निवेदन ( e.g. procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a बैकिंग स्टोर.
The file system manages अभिगम to both the content of files and the मेटाडेटा about those files.
It is responsible for arranging storage space ; reliability, efficiency, और tuning with लिहाज़ to the physical storage medium are महत्वपूर्ण डिज़ाइन considerations.
William Howard Taft ( September 15, 1857 – कूच 8, 1930 ) was the 27th President of the United States ( 1909–1913 ) and बाद the दसवाँ Chief Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the तभी person to have परोसा in दोनो of these offices.
Before becoming President, Taft, a Republican, थी selected to serve on the श्रेष्ठ Court of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the United States and in 1891 a judge on the United States अदालत of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
in 1900, President William mckinley appointed Taft governor-general of the Philippines.
In 1904, President Theodore रूज़वेल्ट appointed Taft सचिव of War in an effort to groom Taft, then his close political ally, into his handpicked अध्यक्षीय successor.
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on some occasions the role of acting Secretary of State, while declining repeated offers from Roosevelt to serve on the Supreme Court.
सवारी a wave of popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt, taft जीती an easy विजय in उसके 1908 bid for the presidency.
In his only term, taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting, civil service reform, strengthening the Interstate Commerce Commission, improving the प्रदर्शन of the postal service, and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Abroad, Taft sought to further the आर्थिक development of राष्ट्र in लैटिन America and Asia through `` Dollar Diplomacy ``, और showed decisiveness and restraint in जवाब to revolution in Mexico.
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political ramifications of उसके decisions, often alienated his अपना कुंजी constituencies, और was overwhelmingly पराजित in his बोली लिये a दूसरी term in the presidential election of 1912.
in surveys of presidential scholars, Taft is usually ranked near the मध्य of सूचियाँ of all American Presidents.
After leaving दफ्तर, Taft spent his time in academia, arbitration, and the search लिये संसार peace through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace.
in 1921, after the First World War, President वारेन G. Harding नियुक्त Taft Chief Justice of the United States.
taft परोसा in this capacity until shortly before his death in 1930.
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced और directed by सेसिल B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical स्टोरी of the Exodus, in which the hebrew-born Moses, an अपनाया Egyptian prince, becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves.
It starred Charlton हेस्टन in the सीसे role, Yul Brynner as his adoptive bhai, Pharaoh rameses ii, ऐनी Baxter as Nefretiri, Edward G. Robinson as Dathan, Yvonne de Carlo as sephora, Debra Paget as Lilia, and जॉन Derek as Joshua.
the supporting डाल includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh सेती I, Nina foch as Bithiah, Martha Scott as Yoshebel, Judith एंडरसन as Memnet, Vincent Price as baka, and John Carradine as आरोन.
the film was released by Paramount Pictures in vistavision on अक्तूबर 5, 1956.
The Ten Commandments, which demille narrated, was the last film that he directed.
He was set to direct the 1958 remake of his 1938 film The Buccaneer, but his फाइनल बीमारी forced him to बाज़ the directing chores to his son-in-law, कर्ता एंथोनी Quinn.
DeMille had also planned to film the जीवन of Lord Baden पावेल, the founder of the Scout गति, with David Niven ; this project was never realized.
The Ten Commandments is a partial रीमेक of DeMille 's 1923 silent film.
Some of the cast and crew of the 1956 संस्करण worked on the original.
It रै since been remade as a television miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
The Ten Commandments is one of the सबसे financially successful films ever made, grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. box office.
Adjusting for inflation, this makes it the छठे highest-grossing film domestically, with an adjusted total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
The बक्सा दफ्तर website `` the Numbers '' सूचियाँ the domestic gross at $ 80 million.
In 1999, the Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States National Film रजिस्ट्री by the Library of Congress as होने `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
in June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed its `` Ten Top Ten `` —the बेहतरीन ten films in ten अमरीकी film genres—after polling over 1,500 people इससे the रचनात्मक community.
The Ten Commandments was listed as the tenth बेहतरीन film in the एपिक genre.
The फिल्मी received seven Academy Award nominations including Best Picture, और won the अकादमी पुरस्कार for Best विज़ुअल Effects.
Charlton Heston was nominated for a Golden Globe पुरस्कार for Best Motion Picture Actor in the drama category.
Yul Brynner जीती the National Board of Review पुरस्कार for Best Actor for उसके role as rameses, along with his other roles in The King and I and Anastasia.
Louisville (, or ) is a major city और the largest city in the U.S. state of केंटकी and the county seat of Jefferson County.
Since 2003, the city 's borders have been with those of the county because of a city-county merger.
The नगर 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census थी 741,096 ( Louisville 's balance total, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous towns and is the जनसांख्यिकी listed in most sources and national rankings ).
As of 2010, the Louisville metropolitan area ( MSA ) had a population of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally.
The मैट्रो area includes louisville-jefferson County and 12 surrounding counties, eight in Kentucky और four in Southern Indiana ( देखिए Geography below ).
The louisville Combined Statistical Area, having a population of 1,451,564, शामिल the MSA, hardin County and larue County in Kentucky, and Scott County, Indiana.
an important internal shipping port in the 19th century, Louisville आज is best ज्ञात as the location of the Kentucky Derby, the first of three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the ट्रिपल Crown.
a typical प्रायोगिक सेटअप for an aldol reaction.
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone कूलिंग bath ( −78 °C ) the temperature of which is होने monitored by a thermocouple ( the तार on the left ).
a cooling bath, in laboratory chemistry ( प्रायः but not always organic chemistry ) practice, is a liquid मिश्रण जिससे is प्रयुक्त to maintain low temperatures, typically between 13 °C and −196 °C.
These low temperatures are used to collect liquids after distillation, to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator, or to perform a रासायनिक reaction नीचे room तापमान ( देखिए : गतिज कंट्रोल ).
Cooling baths are generally एक of two types : ( a ) a ठंडा fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen, water, or even एयर ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a कूलिंग agent ( ऐसे as dry ice or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'कैरीr ' ( such as liquid water, ethylene glycol, acetone, etc. ), which transfers ऊष्मा between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( A परिचित example of इस is the उपयोग of an ice/rock-salt मिश्रण to freeze ice cream.
The phase-change of ice into liquid water requires energy, 'pulling ' heat इससे the system.
adding salt lowers the temp at which this happens, meaning more energy has to be absorbed इससे the environment in order to melt the ice.
इस effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it जरूर 'pull ' अधिक heat from its environment to become liquid. )
खाने disorders are conditions defined by असामान्य eating आदतें that may involve either insufficient or excessive खाना intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health.
Bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa are the most common विशिष्ट forms in the United Kingdom.
Other types of eating disorders शामिल binge खाने विकार and eating disorder not otherwise निर्दिष्ट.
bulimia nervosa is a disorder characterized by binge eating and purging.
Purging can include self-induce उल्टी, over-exercising, and the usage of diuretics, enemas, and laxatives.
एनोरेक्सिया nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to the point of self-starvation and excessive वज़न loss.
Though primarily विचार of as affecting महिलाओं ( an अनुमानित 5–10 लाख being affected in the U.K. ), eating disorders affect males as खूब.
An estimated 10 – 15 % of लोगों with eating disorders are males ( Gorgan, 1999 ).
( an estimated 1 million U.K. males होने affected ).
Although eating विकार are increasing सब over the world among both men and women, there is प्रमाण to suggest that it is women in the Western world who are at the उच्चतम risk of विकासशील them and the degree of westernization increases the risk.
Nearly half of सब Americans personally जान someone साथ an eating disorder.
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously चूंकि leptin was discovered, and the कौशल to observe the कृत्यों of the brain as well.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic और self-regulatory कंट्रोल processes are involved in eating आचरण, which is a key component in खाने disorders.
The precise cause of eating disorders is नहीं entirely understood, but there is प्रमाण that it may be linked to other medical conditions and situations.
Cultural idealization of thinness और youthfulness have contributed to eating disorders affecting diverse populations.
One study showed that girls साथ ADHD have a greater chance of getting an eating disorder than those not affected by ADHD.
Another study suggested that women with PTSD, especially due to sexually related trauma, हैं अधिक likely to develop anorexia nervosa.
One study showed कि foster girls are more likely to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some think that पीर pressure and idealized body-types देखी in the media are also a significant फ़ैक्टर.
Some research show that for certain people वहीँ are जेनेटिक reasons why they may be prone to developing an eating disorder.
Recent studies have found evidence a correlation between patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders.
In addition, anxiety disorders and personality disorders हैं आम occurrences with क्लाइंट of खाने disorders.
जबकि proper treatment can be अत्यधिक effective for अनेक suffering from specific types of eating disorders, the consequences of खाने विकार can be severe, including death ( whether from direct चिकित्सा effects of disturbed eating habits or इससे comorbid conditions ऐसे as suicidal सोच ).
Slavery in the United States existed from the early years of the colonial period ; it was firmly स्थापित by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776.
However, by 1804, all states north of the मेसन और Dixon Line had either abolished slavery outright or passed laws for the gradual abolition of slavery.
in 1787 Congress prohibited गुलामी in the उत्तरपश्चिम Territory.
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton industry after 1800, and expanded into the Southwest.
the nation थी polarized into स्लेव and free states along the Mason-Dixon Line, which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The United States and Great Britain both निषिद्ध the international slave trade in 1808, but the domestic trade, साथ sales to the Deep South, expanded dramatically, and many captives यहूद shipped by the coastwise स्लेव trade.
पहले the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending slavery and its expansion into the territories.
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as sinful, and numerous anti-slavery forces rejected it as detrimental to the अधिकारों of free men.
After failed compromises and Abraham Lincoln 's चुनाव, in 1861 eleven slave states broke away to form the Confederate States of America, leading to the American Civil War.
The federal government in 1862 made abolition of slavery a युद्ध goal.
In January 1863 President lincoln freed स्लेव in the Confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation.
After the war, the Thirteenth amendment, effective December 1865, abolished slavery throughout the entire United States, सहित the किनारा states and the भारतीय territories.
From the 16th to the 19th centuries, an estimated 12 million Africans यहूद shipped as slaves to the Americas.
See Slavery in the Americas.
The great majority went to the शुगर plantations of the West Indies or Brazil, जहाँ मृत्यु was high.
About 645,000 were brought to what is now the संयुक्त States.
By the 1860 United राज्य जनसांख्यिकी, the slave population in the American South had grown to four million.
of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 स्लेव states, nearly 400,000 held slaves ( roughly one in four ), amounting to 8 % of सब American families.
जबकि some slaves worked as house servants and urban artisans, the great बहुमत worked on plantations or large farms, cultivating lucrative cash फसलों, such as rice, tobacco, sugar and, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
By 1860 most slaves were held in the Deep दक्षिण, जहाँ they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton.
In small operations, they worked with their owners.
In large plantations they were directed by white paid overseers.
Under the प्रणाली that became chattel गुलामी ( ownership of a human होने, and of his/her descendants ), a racial element थी आधारभूत : slaves were blacks of African descent and owned, almost universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, Virginia, followed by other southern colonies, enacted law that children of slave mothers were born into slavery.
Slaves could gain freedom तभी by कार्यशील away ( which was difficult and illegal to do ), or by manumission by owners, जिससे was regulated by राज्य, and became increasingly difficult or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel गुलामी, the colonies also organized work by a प्रणाली of bonded labor known as indentured servitude.
This typically lasted लिये several years लिये both ग़रीब Europeans and Africans alike, to pay off the लागत of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for such arrangements क्युकी of poor economies in their home countries.
Between 1680 and 1700, as कम Europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to import अधिक Africans as स्लेव.
Recognizing the importance of slavery, the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave कोड in 1705 ; it combined a किस्में of विधान and added new provisions enforcing श्वेत supremacy in the law.
Schematic क्रॉस खण्ड of part of पत्ता, xylem shown as red वृत्त at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two प्रकार of transport tissue in vascular पौधे ( phloem is the other ).
the word जाइलम is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is wood, though it is found throughout the plant.
इसके basic function is to transport water, लकिन it also transports कुछ nutrients through the plant.
This clock representation shows कुछ of the major units of geological time और definitive events of Earth history.
The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil रिकार्ड of life on Earth ; इसके अपर boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years पहले ).
Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life ; the archean and Proterozoic are both eons, the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon.
The two million year Quaternary period, the time of recognizable humans, is too small to be visible at this स्केल.
The geologic time स्केल is a system of कालानुक्रमिक मापन that relates stratigraphy to time, and is used by geologists, paleontologists, and other earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships between events that have occurred throughout Earth 's history.
The तालिका of geologic time spans presented here agrees साथ the dates and nomenclature set forth by the International आयोग on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Commission on Stratigraphy.
प्रमाण from radiometric dating indicates that the Earth is about 4.54 billion years old.
The भूविज्ञान or deep time of Earth 's past has been organized into various units according to events which took प्लेस in each period.
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by changes in the संयोजन of strata which correspond to them, indicating major geological or paleontological कार्यक्रम, such as द्रव्यमान extinctions.
For example, the boundary between the Cretaceous काल and the Paleogene period is defined by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of जीवन.
Older time spans which predate the reliable चट्टान record ( before the Proterozoic Eon ) are पारिभाषित by absolute age.
The TI-82 is a graphing calculator made by Texas Instruments.
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more user friendly version of the ti-85, and as a बदलना लिये the TI-81.
It was the सीधा predecessor of the TI-83.
It shares with the TI-85 a 6 MHz zilog z80 microprocessor.
Like the TI-81, the TI-82 features a 96x64 पिक्सेल प्रदर्शक, and the core feature set of the TI-81 with many नई features.
The cast of characters of the King of सेनानी XI.
The King of Fighters fighting game series, produced by SNK Playmore, includes a wide cast of वर्ण, some of which are taken from other SNK games.
The स्टोरी takes place in a fictional universe in which an सालाना series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held.
The पहला game in the series introduces the initial main character of the series, kyo Kusanagi, a young जापानी fighter who is the heir to a powerful समूह of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
Kyo झगड़े against the kusanagi clan 's दुश्मनों, his rival Iori Yagami, and the god Orochi and its human अनुसरणकर्ता, among others.
The पहला four खेल in the series revolve about these झगड़े, while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a नई story arc, revolving around K ', a young man who seeks to नष्ट the रहस्यमय NESTS organization because वे kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him of उसके past यादें, so कि they could force him to be a सेनानी under their control.
In The King of सेनानी 2003, a new अक्षर named Ash Crimson enters the टूर्नामेंट, to steal the powers of the clans who sealed the Orochi in the पास्ट for an अनजान reason.
A new group of antagonists, known as Those From the Past, also appears in the series ; they want to obtain orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to their unknown master.
The plot and the characters came इससे the Yamata no Orochi legend.
वहीँ हैं also several वर्ण in the खेल that are parodies or homages to several popular anime, manga, and films.
merchandise based on the characters has also महरूम released, including action figures and keychains.
The characters have garnered praise इससे several वीडियो game publications for the quality of उनके designs and movesets.
टिप्पणी focused on the कमी of improvements in some of the characters, लकिन added that the roster is greatly diverse.
Whale युद्धों is a weekly अमरीकी documentary-style reality television श्रेणी that premiered on नवम्बर 7, 2008 on the Animal Planet cable channel.
the program follows Paul वाटसन, founder of the समुद्र Shepherd Conservation Society, as he और the crew aboard their various बरतन harass Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica.
On January 5, 2013, Animal Planet renewed the series for a sixth season.
The Harpy Eagle ( harpia harpyja ) is a Neotropical प्रजाति of eagle.
It is sometimes known as the American harpy त्रिभुज to distinguish it इससे the Papuan Eagle जिससे is sometimes known as the New गिनी Harpy त्रिभुज or Papuan harpy त्रिभुज.
It is the largest and सबसे powerful raptor मिला in the Americas, and among the largest extant प्रजाति of eagles in the world.
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the upper ( emergent ) canopy layer.
Destruction of इसके प्राकृतिक habitat रै seen it vanish इससे अनेक parts of its former range, and it is nearly extirpated in सेंट्रल America.
Biological classification, or scientific classification in biology, is a method of scientific taxonomy प्रयुक्त to group and categorize जीवों into groups such as genus or species.
ये groups हैं known as taxa ( एकवचन : टैक्सोन ).
Modern biological classification has its रूट in the work of Carolus Linnaeus, who grouped species according to साझा शारीरिक characteristics.
These groupings have since been revised to improve संगति with the Darwinian principle of common descent.
साथ the परिचय of the cladistic method in the late 20th century, phylogenetic taxonomy in which organisms are grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological similarity, रै become common in some areas of biology.
Molecular phylogenetics, जिससे उपयोग DNA sequences as data, रै also driven many हाल revisions and is संभावित to continue doing so.
Biological वर्गीकरण belongs to the विज्ञान of biological systematics.
Lennon 's signature
John Winston Ono Lennon, ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 अक्तूबर 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार, singer and songwriter जो rose to worldwide fame as a founder member of the Beatles, one of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the इतिहास of popular म्यूज़िक.
With पॉल McCartney, he formed one of the most celebrated songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born और raised in Liverpool, as a किशोरावस्था Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; his first band, the quarrymen, विकसित into the Beatles in 1960.
as the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade, Lennon embarked on a solo career that produced the critically acclaimed एल्बम जॉन Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine, and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a मौका `` and `` Imagine ``.
After उसके marriage to योको Ono in 1969, he changed his name to John ओनो लेनन.
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to devote समय to उठाने his infant son Sean, but re-emerged with ओनो in 1980 with the new एल्बम Double Fantasy.
he was murdered three weeks after इसके रिलीज.
Lennon revealed a rebellious nature and acerbic wit in उसके music, writing, drawings, on film और in साक्षात्कार.
Controversial through his राजनैतिक और peace activism, he moved to नई यॉर्क City in 1971, जहाँ उसके criticism of the Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's administration to deport him, while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, Lennon 's सोलो एल्बम sales in the United States exceed 14 million units, और as writer, co-writer or performer, he is responsible for 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a BBC पोल on the 100 Greatest Britons voted him eighth, और in 2008, Rolling स्टोन क्रमित him the fifth-greatest singer of सब समय.
he was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 and into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994.
Statue of Rip van winkle in Irvington, नई York, not far इससे `` Sunnyside ``, the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip वैन Winkle '' is a छोटी story by American author Washington Irving published in 1819, as well as the name of the story 's fictional protagonist.
Written while Irving was living in बर्मिंघम, England, it was part of a collection entitled The Sketch किताब of Geoffrey Crayon.
Although the story is नियत in नई York 's Catskill Mountains, Irving later admitted, `` When I wrote the story, I था never been on the Catskills. ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards, many significant records have been set.
This page only includes the competitive awards जीती by various artists.
इस करता not include the various खास awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and sciences such as आजीवन Achievement Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( ज्ञात as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the कलाकार ( s ).
pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional character created and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens.
He is बेहतरीन ज्ञात for उसके two television series and film series during the 1980s.
The childlike Pee-wee Herman character विकसित as a stage अधिनियम that जल्दी led to an HBO special in 1981.
As the स्टेज performance gained further popularity, reubens took the character to motion picture with Pee-wee 's बिग Adventure in 1985, toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children.
This paved the रास्ता for Pee-wee 's playhouse, an एमी Award जीतना children 's श्रेणी that भागा on सीबीएस from 1986-1991.
Another film, Big Top pee-wee, थी released in 1988.
Due to negative media attention following a scandal in 1991, reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s, and then धीरे resurrected it during the following decade.
It was at that time that Reubens addressed plans to write a नई pee-wee film, pee-wee 's playhouse : The Movie.
In June 2007, Reubens appeared as Pee-wee herman लिये the first time चूंकि 1991 at Spike TV 's Guys ' Choice पुरस्कार.
That '70s दिखाएँ is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a group of teenage friends जीना in the fictional suburban town of Point Place, विस्कॉन्सिन, from may 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
It debuted on the Fox television संजाल, first airing on August 23, 1998, running for eight consecutive seasons, and concluding with the 200th एपीसोड on May 18, 2006.
The main teenage डाल members were Topher अनुग्रह, Mila Kunis, Ashton Kutcher, Danny masterson, Laura Prepon, and Wilmer valderrama.
The main adult डाल members were Debra Jo Rupp, Kurtwood Smith, Don Stark and, during the first तीन seasons, तान्या Roberts.
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. राज्य located in the Midwestern United States.
it is नामित after the Kansas नदी जिससे flows through it, which in turn was named after the Kansa Native American जनजाति, which inhabited the area.
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often कहा to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` people of the south wind, '' although this was संभवतः not the पद 's original अर्थ.
Residents of Kansas are called `` Kansans. ''
For thousands of years what is now Kansas थी घर to numerous and diverse देशी American जनजातियों.
Tribes in the Eastern part of the राज्य generally lived in गांवों along the river valleys.
Tribes in the Western part of the state were semi- nomadic and hunted large herds of bison.
कान्सास was first settled by European अमेरिकी in the 1830s, but the pace of settlement त्वरित in the 1850s, in the midst of political wars over the गुलामी issue.
जब officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854, abolitionist Free-Staters from New इंग्लैण्ड और pro-slavery settlers from neighboring मिसौरी rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave राज्य.
यूँ, the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in its early days as these forces collided, and was known as Bleeding Kansas.
the abolitionists आखिरकार prevailed and on January 29, 1861, कान्सास entered the Union as a free state.
After the Civil War, the जनसांख्यिकी of Kansas grew rapidly, जब waves of immigrants turned the प्रेयरी into farmland.
Today, Kansas is one of the most productive agricultural states, producing high yields of wheat, sorghum and sunflowers.
कान्सास is the 15th most extensive और the 33rd most populous of the 50 United States.
Psychology is an academic and applied discipline कि involves the वैज्ञानिक study of mental कृत्यों and behaviors.
Psychology रै the तात्कालिक लक्ष्य of understanding individuals and groups by both establishing सामान्य सिद्धान्त and researching specific cases, और by अनेक accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society.
in this field, a professional or researcher is called a psychologist and can be वर्गीकृत as a social, behavioral, or cognitive scientist.
psychologists attempt to understand the role of दिमागी functions in individual and social बर्ताव, while also exploring the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors.
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception, cognition, ध्यान, emotion, phenomenology, प्रेरणा, brain functioning, personality, behavior, and interpersonal relationships.
Psychologists of विविध stripes also consider the unconscious mind.
Psychologists employ अनुभवजन्य methods to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
in addition, or in opposition, to employing empirical और deductive methods, some—especially नैदानिक and counseling psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon सांकेतिक interpretation and other inductive तकनीकों.
Psychology has महरूम described as a `` hub science '', साथ psychological findings linking to research and perspectives इससे the सोशल sciences, natural sciences, medicine, and the humanities, such as दर्शनशास्त्र.
While मनोवैज्ञानिक knowledge is प्रायः applied to the assessment and treatment of mental health समस्याएं, it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in अनेक different spheres of इंसान कार्यकलाप.
the majority of psychologists are involved in some kind of therapeutic role, practicing in clinical, counseling, or school जमावट.
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to दिमागी processes and behavior, और typically work in university psychology विभाग or teach in अन्य academic settings ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings, or in other areas ऐसे as human development and aging, sports, health, and the media, as खूब as in forensic investigation and other aspects of विधि.
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13, 1743 ( April 2, 1743 O.S. ) – July 4, 1826 ) was an American Founding Father, the प्रिंसिपल author of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) और the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ).
At the शुरूआत of the American Revolution, he परोसा in the Continental Congress, representing वर्जिनिया और तब served as a wartime Governor of वर्जिनिया ( 1779–1781 ).
Just बाद the war ended, इससे mid-1784 Jefferson served as a diplomat, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the United States Minister to France.
Jefferson was the first United राज्य Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) serving under अध्यक्ष जार्ज Washington.
With his close friend James Madison he organized the Democratic-Republican पार्टी, and subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet.
Elected वाइस President in 1796, जब he आए in दूसरी to जॉन Adams of the Federalists, Jefferson opposed एडम्स and with मैडिसन secretly wrote the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions, which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts.
Elected president in what Jefferson पुकारा the क्रान्ति of 1800, he oversaw the purchase of the vast Louisiana Territory from France ( 1803 ), and sent the Lewis and Clark expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the नई west.
उसके दूसरी term was beset साथ troubles at home, such as the failed देशद्रोह trial of his पूर्व Vice President आरोन Burr.
With escalating trouble with ब्रिटेन जो was challenging American neutrality and threatening शिपिंग at समुद्र, he tried economic warfare साथ his embargo laws which only क्षतिग्रस्त अमरीकी trade.
In 1803, President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the Louisiana Territory west of the Mississippi River, in order to open lands for eventual American settlers.
A leader in the Enlightenment, Jefferson was a polymath who spoke five languages fluently and was deeply interested in science, invention, वास्तुकला, धर्म and philosophy, रूचि that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia बाद his प्रेसिडेंसी.
He designed उसके own large mansion on a 5,000 acre वृक्षारोपण near Charlottesville, Virginia, जिससे he named Monticello.
जबकि not a notable orator, Jefferson थी a skilled writer और corresponded with many influential people in America and Europe throughout उसके adult life.
Though Jefferson owned many स्लेव, he opposed the institution all his life और consequently treated and took care of उन्हें very खूब और अपेक्षित उन्हें to work no more than free किसानो.
Since 1802 historians and others have been विभाजित over the विवाद of whether Jefferson was the father of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings, a स्लेव at Monticello. ''
इतिहासकारों हैं also in disagreement साथ कैसा much जेफरसन थी committed to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, President जेफरसन signed into विधि a bill that banned the importation of slaves into the संयुक्त राज्य.
बाद Martha Jefferson, his wife of eleven years, died in 1782, Jefferson remained a widower for the बाकी of his life ; their marriage produced six children, of whom दो survived to adulthood.
Though Jefferson has been criticized by many आधुनिक day विद्वानों over the issue of गुलामी, he remains रेटेड as one of the greatest u.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song लिखा by Steven Van Zandt, produced by वैन Zandt and Arthur Baker और अंकित by Artists United Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South अफ़्रीकी policy of apartheid.
The primary means of that विपक्ष is to declare that all the artists शामिल would refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun City, a resort which was located in Bantustan of Bophuthatswana, one of a number of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the दक्षिण African government to forcibly relocate इसके black population.
इस page is a list of वर्ण in the Police अकादमी फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न series.
Bill Russell won 11 championships with the बोस्टन Celtics.
This is a list of NBA players साथ most championships won as a player.
The National Basketball Association ( NBA ) is a major पेशेवर basketball league in North अमेरिका.
It थी founded in 1946 as the बास्केट Association of अमेरिका ( BAA ).
The league adopted its वर्तमान name at the start of the when it merged with the National Basketball लीग ( NBL ).
The NBA फाइनल is the championship series for the NBA and the conclusion of the sport 's postseason.
The winning टोली of the series receives the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy.
खिलाड़ी from the winning team usually प्राप्त championship बजती इससे the टोली honoring their contribution.
However, in some विरल अवसर, the टीमों opted to gave other commemorative items, ऐसे as wrist watches, instead of बजती.
The number of championships won by एनबीए सुपरस्टार is प्रायः used as a measurement of their विशालता.
Boston Celtics बीच Bill Russell holds the record for the सबसे NBA championships won with 11 titles during his 13-year playing career.
He won his first championship साथ the Boston Celtics in his rookie year.
afterwards, he went on to win 10 championships in the next 12 years, including eight लगातार championships इससे 1959 to 1966.
He जीती the last two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
रसेल 's teammate, Sam Jones, won 10 championships from 1959 to 1969, the second सबसे in NBA इतिहास.
Four Celtics players, Tom Heinsohn, K. C. Jones, Satch Sanders और John Havlicek, won eight championships each.
Two other सेल्टिक्स, जिम Loscutoff and Frank रैमसे, won सात championships each.
Four players, Bob Cousy, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen, जीती six championships प्रत्येक.
जॉर्डन and pippen are सदस्यों of the Chicago Bulls team who won three consecutive championships twice in the 1990s.
Robert Horry और जॉन Salley are the only players to have जीती the championships with three different teams.
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets, the Los Angeles Lakers and the सैन Antonio स्पर्स, while Salley won four championships with the Detroit पिस्टन्स, the Bulls and the Lakers.
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only खिलाड़ी to win two championships with two different teams in consecutive सीज़न.
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, while केर won consecutive championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement परिणाम to the true value, precision to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science, engineering, industry, and statistics, the accuracy of a measurement प्रणाली is the उपाधि of closeness of measurements of a quantity to that quantity 's actual ( true ) value.
The precision of a measurement प्रणाली, also called reproducibility or repeatability, is the degree to which repeated measurements under unchanged शर्तें show the same results.
हालांकि the दो शब्द reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial use, वे are deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific विधि.
A measurement system can be accurate but not precise, precise but not accurate, neither, or both.
For example, if an experiment contains a व्यवस्थित error, then increasing the sample size generally increases precision but करता not improve accuracy.
The result would be a सतत yet inaccurate स्ट्रिंग of परिणाम from the flawed experiment.
Eliminating the systematic error improves accuracy but करता not change precision.
A measurement system is designated valid if it is both सटीक and precise.
Related terms शामिल bias ( non- random or directed effects caused by a फ़ैक्टर or कारकों unrelated to the independent variable ) and error ( random variability ).
the terminology is भी applied to indirect measurements—that is, values प्राप्त by a computational procedure from observed data.
In जोड to accuracy and precision, measurements may also have a measurement resolution, जिससे is the smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement.
In the मामला of पूरा reproducibility, such as when rounding a number to a representable floating point number, the word परिशुद्धता has a meaning नहीं related to reproducibility.
For example, in the IEEE 754-2008 standard it means the number of bits in the significand, so it is used as a measure लिये the relative सटीकता साथ which an arbitrary number can be represented.
बकवास in its literal meaning refers to the अधिनियम of sexual intercourse.
it is an English word कि is प्रायः used as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
the origin of the word is obscure.
It is usually considered to be first attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
in modern उपयोग, बकवास and its derivatives ( ऐसे as fucker और fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
वहीँ are many common phrases which make use of the शब्द, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Animated, color-coded map प्रर्दशित the various continents and regions.
Depending on the convention and मॉडल, some continents may be consolidated or subdivided : for example, Eurasia is most often subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red शेड्स ), while North and South America are sometimes पहचाना as one American continent ( green shades ).
a continent is एक of several बहुत large landmasses on Earth.
वे are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they are ( इससे largest in आकार to smallest ) : Asia, Africa, उत्तर America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
In geology, continents are described by means of tectonic प्लेटों.
Plate tectonics is the process and study of the movement, collision and division of continents, earlier ज्ञात as continental बहाव.
Biker Boyz is a 2003 film about a समूह of underground motorcycle drag racers.
It stars Laurence Fishburne, Djimon Hounsou, Derek Luke, Meagan Good, और Larenz Tate और is लिखा and directed by reggie चट्टान Bythewood.
it also सुविधाएँ Lisa Bonet, ऑरलैंडो Jones, Kid Rock and Vanessa घंटी calloway.
For the Steel पैंथर song, see Feel the Steel.
Community property is a marital property regime कि originated in civil law jurisdictions और is now also found in some common law jurisdictions.
The राज्य of the संयुक्त States that recognize जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी are primarily in the वेस्ट ; it was inherited इससे Mexico 's ganancial community system, जिससे itself थी inherited from Spanish law ( a रोमन -derived civil law प्रणाली ) and ultimately from the Visigoths.
While under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial community system of acquests and gains, which replaced the traditional फ्रेंच जातियाँ of movables and acquests in its civil law system.
मैप of the United States with community property states highlighted in red.
In addition to the highlighted states, अलास्का is a पृथक property state कि permits couples to ऑप्ट into a community property arrangement.
In a community property jurisdiction, most property acquired during the विवाह ( except for gifts or inheritances ) —the community, or communio bonorum—is स्वामित्व jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce, annulment or मौत.
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by विधि in the absence of specific evidence कि would point to a contrary निष्कर्ष for a particular piece of property.
Division of community property may take place by item, by splitting सब items or by value.
In some jurisdictions, such as California, a 50/50 division of जातियाँ property is strictly mandated by statute, meaning कि the focus then शिफ्ट to whether particular वस्तुएं are to be classified as community or separate property.
In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a divorce court may decree an `` निष्पक्ष distribution `` of community property, जिससे may result in an unequal division of such.
In non-community property states property may be divided by equitable distribution.
Generally speaking, the property that each संगी brings into the marriage or receives by gift, bequest or मक्कारी during marriage is called पृथक प्रॉपर्टी ( i.e., not community property ).
See division of प्रॉपर्टी.
Division of community debts may not be the same as division of community property.
For example, in California, community property is required to be divided `` equally '' while community debt is required to be विभाजित `` equitably ''.
Property that is owned by one जीवनसाथी before the marriage is the separate प्रॉपर्टी of that spouse, जबतक the property is `` transmuted '' into community property.
The नियम for इस vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
The ड्यूक and Duchess of Cambridge waving to the भीड at The Mall shortly after the wedding.
the wedding of Prince William, Duke of कैम्ब्रिज, और Catherine मिडलटन took place on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London.
the groom, Prince William, Duke of कैम्ब्रिज, is the eldest son of Charles, प्रिंस of Wales, and is second in the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों Throne and the तख्तों of fifteen other Commonwealth realms.
the बहू, Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest of three children of Michael and carole Middleton of Bucklebury, Berkshire.
The डीन of वेस्टमिंस्टर, John Hall, presided at the सेवा ; the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, conducted the marriage ; Richard Chartres, the Bishop of London, preached the sermon ; and a reading थी given by the bride 's brother, James.
William 's best man was his brother, प्रिंस Harry, while the bride 's sister, Pippa, was maid of honour.
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and groom 's families, as well as many foreign रॉयल्स, diplomats, and the couple 's चुनी personal guests.
After the ceremony, the couple made the परंपरागत appearance on the balcony of Buckingham Palace.
As Prince William was not the heir apparent to the सिंहासन, the wedding थी not a full state occasion and अनेक details were left to the couple to decide, ऐसे as much of the guest list of about 1,900.
प्रिंस विलियम and Kate Middleton met in 2001.
Their engagement on 20 October 2010 थी announced on 16 November 2010.
the build-up to the wedding और the occasion itself attracted much मीडिया attention, being compared in many ways with the 1981 marriage of William 's parents.
the occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and featured many ceremonial aspects, including use of the state carriages and roles for the Foot Guards and Household Cavalry.
Events were held around the राष्ट्रमंडल to mark the विवाह ; संगठनों and hotels held events across Canada, over 5,000 street पार्टियों were held throughout the United Kingdom, and one million people lined the route between वेस्टमिंस्टर Abbey और Buckingham Palace.
The ceremony was viewed live by tens of millions more around the world, including 72 million on the YouTube royal चैनल.
in the United किंगडम, television audiences peaked at 26.3 million viewers, with a total of 36.7 लाख watching भाग of the coverage.
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी television personality, television host, fashion model, and अभिनेत्री.
Minnillo थी also named Miss Teen USA in 1998.
She has been a New यॉर्क -based correspondent for Entertainment Tonight and hosted Total Request Live on MTV.
A hand ( मेड. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity located at the समाप्त of an भुजा or forelimb of primates and इंसानो, chimpanzees, monkeys, और lemurs.
A few other vertebrates such as the koala ( which has two opposable thumbs on प्रत्येक `` hand '' and fingerprints remarkably similar to human fingerprints ) हैं often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs.
हैंड्स are the main structures for physically manipulating the पर्यावरण, used लिये both gross मोटर कौशल ( such as grasping a large ऑब्जेक्ट ) and fine motor skills ( such as picking up a small pebble ).
the fingertips contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the body, are the richest source of tactile feedback, and have the महानतम positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated साथ हैंड्स.
Like other paired organs ( eyes, फीट, legs ), प्रत्येक hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain गोलार्ध, so that handedness, or the preferred हाथ चुनाव for single-handed activities such as लिखने with a पेंसिल, reflects individual brain functioning.
कुछ evolutionary anatomists उपयोग the term हाथ to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example, in the context of whether the three अंक of the bird hand शामिल the same समजात loss of दो अंक as in the dinosaur hand.
the human hand has 27 bones, not including the sesamoid हड्डियों which number varies between people.
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal, intermediate and distal ) of the fingers.
the metacarpals हैं the bones that connects the fingers and the कलाई.
Each इंसान hand रै 5 metacarpals और 8 carpal bones.
too Cool was a professional कुश्ती tag team और former faction most notably active in World Wrestling federation/entertainment between 1998 और 2001 and for a short time in 2004.
Basic digital alarm clock without a radio.
The चिह्नित in the top-left of the display indicates that the time is 4:00pm, not 4:00am.
A 1969 रेडियो alarm क्लॉक ( Sony digimatic 8FC-59W ) साथ an early mechanical-digital display.
A डिजिटल क्लॉक is a type of क्लॉक कि displays the time digitally, i.e. in numerals or other symbols, as opposed to an analog clock, where the time is indicated by the positions of rotating हैंड्स.
Digital clocks are often associated with electronic ड्राइव, but the `` digital '' वर्णन refers only to the प्रदर्शक, नहीं to the drive mechanism.
( Both एनालॉग and digital clocks can be driven either mechanically or electronically, but `` clockwork '' mechanisms with डिजिटल displays हैं rare. )
the biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light समय स्तर '' ) on the टेलीविज़न tower rheinturm Düsseldorf, जर्मनी.
परिवार Guy creator Seth macfarlane भी provides the voices of Peter Griffin, Stewie griffin, Brian Griffin, और Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that सुविधाएँ five main voice actors, और numerous नियमित cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of show निर्माता Seth MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mila kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert बाद the पहला ऋतु ) and Mike Henry और now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice अभिनेताओं include पैट्रिक warburton, Adam West, John G. ब्रेनन, निकोल Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly, और repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and फिल LaMarr.
Many cast members provide voices for अनेक वर्ण.
The voice actors, in portraying the various अक्षर personalities on the show, draw प्रेरणा from celebrities and pop culture.
परिवार Guy characters have been played by more than एक actor, after members of the show left the श्रेणी or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis थी nominated for an Annie पुरस्कार for voicing Meg griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` और MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award लिये Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television उत्पादन, though no other cast सदस्य has won an पुरस्कार लिये their work on the series.
The five sets of the फलक खेल Monopoly चित्रित here दिखाएँ the evolution of the game 's artwork and designs in the संयुक्त States from 1935–2005.
The history of the board game एकाधिकार can be traced वापस to the early 20th सदी.
The earliest known design थी by the American, Elizabeth Magie, patented in 1904 but existing as early as 1902.
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to illustrate an economic principle, namely the Georgist concept of a single land value tax.
A series of board games were developed इससे 1906 through the 1930s that involved the खरीदे और selling of land और the development of that land.
by 1934, a board game had been created much like the version of Monopoly sold by Parker Brothers और its related companies through the rest of the 20th century, and into the 21st.
Several people, mostly in the Midwestern United States and near the East Coast, contributed to the game 's design and evolution.
By the 1970s, the विचार that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it was printed in the game 's instructions for many years, in a 1974 book devoted to Monopoly, and was cited in a सामान्य book परिचय toys even as recently as 2007.
Even a मार्गदर्शिका to family खेल प्रकाशित for Reader 's Digest in 2003 only gave credit to Darrow और Elizabeth Magie, erroneously stating that Magie 's original game was created in the 1800s, and not acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game, और the eventual publication by Parker भाइयो.
Also in the 1970s, प्राध्यापक Ralph Anspach, who had खुद published a board game intended to illustrate the principles of both monopolies and trust busting, लड़ा Parker Brothers and इसके then जनक company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game.
Through the research of Anspach and others, much of the early history of the खेल was `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted maxine ब्रैडी, author of the 1974 किताब the Monopoly Book : रणनीति and Tactics of the World 's Most Popular Game over the actual history of the game on Barry farber 's नई York City talk दिखाएँ in 1975.
Because of the lengthy court प्रक्रम, including appeals, the legal status of पार्कर Brothers ' trademarks on the game was not settled जबतक 1985.
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of Parker भाइयो, as do its specific design तत्व.
At the conclusion of the court case, the खेल 's logo and ग्राफिक design elements became भाग of a larger Monopoly brand, licensed by Parker Brothers ' parent कंपनियाँ onto a variety of items through the present day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's जल्दी history in the 1970s and 1980s, और several books and journal articles on the subject, हास्ब्रो ( Parker Brothers ' current जनक company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012.
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in materials published or sponsored by उन्हें, at least as recently as 2006.
International tournaments, first held in the early 1970s, continue to the present, with the next world championship likely scheduled for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a new generation of spin-off board games and कार्ड games appeared on both पहलू of the अटलांटिक Ocean.
In 1989, the first of many video game and computer खेल संस्करण was published.
Since 1994, many official variants of the खेल, based on स्थितियाँ other than Atlantic City, नई Jersey ( the official U.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth सेटिंग, excepting Canada ), have been published by Hasbro or its licensees.
In 2008, Hasbro permanently changed the रंग scheme and some of the gameplay of the मानक u.s. Edition of the खेल to मैच the UK Edition, although the U.S. standard संस्करण maintains the Atlantic City प्रॉपर्टी names.
हास्ब्रो also परिवर्धित the official logo to दे the `` Mr. Monopoly '' character a 3-d computer-generated look, which has चूंकि महरूम अपनाया by licensees USAopoly, Winning Moves और Winning Solutions.
And Hasbro has also been सहित the Speed Die, introduced in 2006 's Monopoly : The Mega Edition by Winning Moves Games, in versions produced directly by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 चैंपियनशिप Edition ).
In baseball, a sacrifice मक्खी is a batted ball कि satisfies four criteria:
There are fewer than दो outs when the ball is hit.
The ball is hit to the outfield ( fair or foul ), or to infield foul territory.
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly ( alternatively if the batter would have been आउट if not for an error or if the outfielder drops the ball and another runner is put out ).
A runner जो is already on base scores on the खेल.
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to cause a teammate to score a run, जबकि sacrificing his own ability to do so.
Minnesota ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Midwestern United राज्य.
Minnesota was carved out of the eastern half of the Minnesota Territory and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858.
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '', the state 's name comes from a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water ''.
those waters, together with forests, parks, and wilderness areas, प्रस्ताव निवासियों and tourists a variety of बाहरी recreational opportunities.
Minnesota is the 12th सबसे extensive and the 21st most populous of the U.S. राज्य.
Nearly 60 % of इसके residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan क्षेत्रफल ( known as the `` Twin Cities '' ), the बीच of transportation, कारोबार, उद्योग, education, government और home to an internationally known arts जातियाँ.
The शेष of the state consists of पश्चिमी prairies now given over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast, now cleared, farmed and settled ; and the कम populated North वुड्स, used लिये खनन, forestry, and मनोरंजन.
Minnesota is known for its relatively मिश्रित social and political orientations, and रै a high rate of civic participation and voter turnout.
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest राज्य, and has a highly literate population.
The large majority of residents हैं of Scandinavian and जर्मनी descent.
The state is known as a center of Scandinavian American संस्कृति.
जातीय diversity has increased in recent decades.
Substantial influxes of एशियाई, African, and Latin American immigrants have joined the descendants of European settlers and the असली देशी अमरीकी inhabitants.
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers ), often a government department, corporation, foundation or trust, to a, often ( लकिन नहीं सदा ) a nonprofit entity, educational institution, business or an individual.
In order to receive a grant, some form of `` Grant Writing '' often referred to as either a proposal or an application is usually required.
Most grants are made to fund a specific project and require some level of compliance and reporting.
The grant writing process involves an आवेदक submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder, either on the applicant 's अपना initiative or in response to a निवेदन for Proposal from the funder.
Other grants can be given to individuals, such as victims of natural disasters or individuals who seek to open a small business.
sometimes grant makers require grant seekers to have some form of tax-exempt status, be a registered nonprofit organization or a local government.
लिये उदाहरण, tiered funding for a freeway are बहुत large grants negotiated at government policy level.
however छोटी अनुदान may be provided by a government एजेंसी ( e.g. municipal government ).
Project-related funding involving governments, business, communities, and individuals is प्रायः arranged by application either in writing or online.
Naturally occurring cobalt ( co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have महरूम characterized with the most stable being 60Co with a half-life of 5.2714 years, 57Co साथ a half-life of 271.79 days, 56Co with a half-life of 77.27 days, and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 दिनों.
All of the remaining रेडियोसक्रिय isotopes have half-lives that are less than 18 घंटों and the बहुमत of ये have half-lives that are less than 1 second.
इस element also has 11 meta states, all of which have half-lives less than 15 minutes.
The isotopes of कोबाल्ट range in परमाणु weight from 47Co to 75Co.
the प्राथमिक क्षय mode for isotopes with atomic द्रव्यमान unit values less than that of the सबसे abundant stable isotope, 59Co, is electron capture and the primary mode of क्षय for those of वृहद than 59 atomic द्रव्यमान units is beta decay.
The primary decay products before 59co हैं आयरन isotopes और the primary products after are nickel isotopes.
Standard atomic द्रव्यमान : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who Moved My Cheese ?
An अद्भुत Way to Deal with बदलें in Your Work and in Your Life, published in 1998, is a motivational किताब by Spencer Johnson written in the स्टाइल of a parable or business fable.
It describes change in one 's work and life, and four typical reactions to said change by two mice और two `` littlepeople '', दौरान their हंट for cheese.
a New York टाइम्स business bestseller चूंकि release, Who Moved my चीज ?
remained on the list for लगभग five years and खर्च over 200 weeks on Publishers Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list.
It has बेची more than 26 million copies विश्वव्यापी in 37 languages and remains to be one of the best-selling कारोबार books.
Nikita sergeyevich khrushchev ( – September 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War.
He served as First Secretary of the Communist पार्टी of the Soviet Union इससे 1953 to 1964, and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers, or Premier, इससे 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-stalinization of the सोवियत संघ, for backing the progress of the जल्दी सोवियत स्पेस program, and for several relatively उदार reforms in areas of घरेलू नीति.
Khrushchev 's पार्टी colleagues removed him from शक्ति in 1964, replacing him साथ लियोनिद Brezhnev as पहला Secretary and एलेक्सी Kosygin as Premier.
Khrushchev was born in the रूसी village of Kalinovka in 1894, close to the present-day border between Russia and Ukraine.
He was employed as a metalworker in उसके youth, और दौरान the Russian Civil युद्ध was a राजनैतिक commissar.
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich, he worked his way up the Soviet पदानुक्रम.
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges, और approved thousands of arrests.
In 1939, Stalin sent him to govern युक्त, और he जारी the purges there.
दौरान what was ज्ञात in the Soviet Union as the ग्रेट Patriotic War ( Eastern Front of World War II ), Khrushchev was again a commissar, serving as an intermediary between स्टालिन and his generals.
Khrushchev थी उपस्थित at the bloody defense of stalingrad, a फैक्ट he took great pride in throughout his जीवन.
After the war, he returned to Ukraine पहले being recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers.
In the power struggle triggered by Stalin 's death in 1953, Khrushchev, after several years, emerged victorious.
On फ़रवरी 25, 1956, at the 20th Party Congress, he delivered the `` Secret Speech, '' denouncing Stalin 's purges and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union.
His domestic policies, aimed at bettering the जीवनदान of ordinary नागरिकों, यहूद प्रायः ineffective, especially in the area of agriculture.
Hoping eventually to rely on missiles लिये national defense, Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces.
Despite the cuts, Khrushchev 's rule देखी the tensest सालो of the ठंडा War, culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Some of khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic, विशेषकर by his उभरते rivals, who quietly rose in strength और अपदस्थ him in October 1964.
He did not suffer the deadly fate of कुछ previous losers of Soviet power struggles, but was pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
His lengthy memoirs were smuggled to the West and प्रकाशित in part in 1970.
Khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease.
Upper gastrointestinal ( gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the अपर gastrointestinal tract.
the anatomic cut-off for अपर gi bleeding is the ligament of Treitz, which connects the fourth portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies, और require प्रवेश to hospital for तात्कालिक diagnosis and management.
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy, upper GI hemorrhage is now usually treated बगैर surgery.
World population estimates इससे 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and US Census Bureau ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
वास्तविक अंकित population figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the total number of living humans on धरती.
As of today, it is estimated to क्रमांक अरब by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund, it reached इस milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous विकास since the end of the Great अकाल and the ब्लैक Death in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 million.
The highest दरों of विकास – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly दौरान the 1950s, and लिये a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total सालाना births यहूद highest in the लेट 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million, जबकि deaths number 56 million per साल, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections दिखाएँ a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 अरब by 2050.
विभिन्न longer-term estimates predict further विकास, stagnation, or even overall मनाही in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world जनसांख्यिकी विकास, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and उर्जा संसाधन.
Philips lumileds Lighting Company is the manufacturer of a चौड़ी range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( leds ).
It is a now a fully स्वामित्व division of Philips lighting.
Knuckle mnemonic for the number of days in प्रत्येक माह of the Gregorian Calendar.
प्रत्येक projecting knuckle represents a 31-day माह.
A mnemonic (, with a silent `` m '' ), or mnemonic device, is any learning technique कि aids सूचना retention.
Mnemonics aim to translate information into a form that the human brain can retain बेहतर than इसके original रूप.
Even the process of applying इस conversion might already aid the transfer of information to long-term memory.
commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory form, ऐसे as short poems, acronyms, or memorable वाक्यांश, but mnemonics can also be लिये other types of information and in visual or kinesthetic फ़ॉर्म.
Their use is based on the अवलोकन that the human दिमाग more easily remembers स्थानिक, personal, surprising, physical, sexual, humorous, or otherwise 'relatable ' information, बल्कि than अधिक अमूर्त or impersonal forms of information.
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), meaning `` of memory '' and is related to Mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ), the name of the देवी of memory in Greek mythology.
Both of these words are derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` remembrance, memory ''.
Mnemonics in antiquity were most often considered in the context of what is today known as the Art of memory.
Ancient Greeks and Romans विशिष्ट between two types of memory : the 'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory.
the former is inborn, और is the one that everyone uses automatically and without thinking.
The artificial memory in contrast रै to be trained and developed through the learning और practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques.
mnemonic systems are special तकनीकों or strategies consciously used to improve memory, it helps employ information already stored in long-term memory to make memorization an easier कार्य.
President Bush signing the No Child Left Behind Act at Hamilton h.s. in Hamilton, Ohio.
The no Child बाएँ Behind Act of 2001 ( NCLB ) is a United States Act of कॉंग्रेस that is a reauthorization of the Elementary और Secondary Education अधिनियम, which included Title I, the government 's फ्लैगशिप aid program for सुविधाहीन students.
NCLB supports standards-based education reform based on the premise that setting high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education.
The अधिनियम requires राज्य to develop assessments in मौलिक skills.
States must give these assessments to all students at select grade levels in order to प्राप्त federal school funding.
The Act does नहीं assert a national achievement standard ; standards are set by each व्यक्तिगत state.
NCLB expanded the federal role in public शिक्षा through annual testing, annual academic progress, report cards, टीचर qualifications, and funding changes.
The bill passed in the u.S. Congress with bipartisan support.
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950, driven by Albert Namatjira
A पिकअप truck or pick-up, often simply referred to as a pickup, is a light motor गाडी with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used लिये light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built, integrated bed, as well as for coupé utility vehicles, often based on a personal car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
कुछ countries have their own terms similar to pickup, ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया and New Zealand, or bakkie in South अफ़्रीकी.
Large pickup ट्रक are somewhat rare in Europe, where वैन and लाइट lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse with मेहराबदार neck, refined head and elegant gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size, build and नस्ल from the modern horse, and were, on average, smaller.
They were also more central to society than their modern counterparts, being essential for war, agriculture, and transport.
Consequently, specific types of घोड़ा विकसित, many of which have no modern equivalent.
While an understanding of आधुनिक horse breeds and equestrianism is vital for any analysis of the medieval horse, शोधकर्ताओं also need to consider documentary ( both written और pictorial ) and archaeological evidence.
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by breed, but rather by use.
This led उन्हें to be described, for example, as `` chargers `` ( युद्ध horses ), `` palfreys `` ( riding घोड़े ), कार्ट horses or packhorses.
Reference is also दिए to their place of origin, ऐसे as `` Spanish horses, '' but whether इस referred to one breed or several is unknown.
another difficulty arising during any study of medieval documents or literature is the flexibility of the medieval languages, where several words can be used for एक thing ( or, conversely, several objects are referred to by एक शब्द ).
शब्द such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even within एक दस्तावेज़ ), and where एक epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological अग्रिम in equestrian equipment, often introduced from other cultures, allowed for significant changes in both warfare and agriculture.
in particular, improved designs for the solid-treed saddle as well as the arrival of the stirrup, नाल and horse कॉलर यहूद significant advances in medieval society.
Consequently, the assumptions और theories developed by इतिहासकारों are not definitive, और debate still rages on many issues, ऐसे as the breeding or size of the horse, and a number of sources must be consulted in अनुक्रम to समझे the breadth of the subject.
The म्यूज़िक Man is a musical with book, music, and lyrics by मेरेडिथ willson, based on a story by willson and फ्रैंकलिन Lacey.
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill, who poses as a boys ' band organizer and नेता and बिकता band instruments and वर्दी to naive townsfolk before skipping town with the cash.
In River City, Iowa, prim librarian and पियानो teacher marian paroo sees through him, लकिन when हिल helps उसके younger bhai overcome his भय of social interactions due to his lisp, Marian begins to fall in love साथ Harold.
Harold, in turn गिरना for Marian, risks being caught to win her.
In 1957, the show became a hit on Broadway, winning पाँच Tony Awards, सहित Best Musical, and running for 1,375 प्रदर्शन.
The cast album won the पहला Grammy Award for `` बेहतरीन Original Cast Album '' and was number one on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks.
The show 's success led to revivals and a popular 1962 film adaptation and a 2003 television रीमेक.
it अक्सर is उत्पादित by both professional and amateur theater companies.
Surveyor 's wheel
a निरीक्षक 's wheel, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle व्हील, measuring wheel, or perambulator is a device for measuring distance.
largest non-polar deserts
बालू dunes in the Rub ' al Khali ( `` Empty quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia.
Makhtesh रेमन, Negev desert, Israel
a desert is a landscape or region of land that is बहुत शुष्क क्युकी of low rainfall amounts ( precipitation ), often has little coverage by plants, और in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from बाहर areas.
Deserts can also be described as क्षेत्रों where अधिक water is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as वर्षण.
Desert plants must have special adaptations to survive साथ इस little water.
Deserts generally receive less than 25 cm of rain ( precipitation ) प्रत्येक year.
semideserts or steppes are regions which receive between and.
In the Köppen जलवायु classification system, रेगिस्तान हैं classed as BWh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert ).
In the thornthwaite climate classification system, deserts would be वर्गीकृत as arid megathermal climates.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global युद्ध centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great युद्ध from इसके occurrence until the प्रारंभ of World युद्ध ii in 1939, और the पहला World युद्ध or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the संसार 's great powers, जिससे were assembled in दो opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the संयुक्त Kingdom, France और Russia ) and the Central शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of जर्मनी, Austria-Hungary और Italy ; but, as austria–hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
ये alliances यहूद both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the युद्ध : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central शक्तियां.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 लाख combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations शामिल.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the पुनरुत्थान of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More तत्काल, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the वारिस to the throne of austria-hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a राजनयिक crisis when austria-hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war और, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
on 28 जुलाई, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as तैयारी for the invasion of सर्बिया.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition साथ a trench लकीर कि changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the उस्मानी Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western सामने, the Allies drove back the germans in a series of successful offensives and American शक्तियां began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble साथ revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory लिये the allies.
Events on the घर fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their जनशक्ति और economic resources to fight a total war.
By the समाप्त of the war, four प्रमुख imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a ग्रेट amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several छोटी states.
the League of Nations थी formed in the आशा of preventing another such विरोध.
The यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to संसार War II.
`` Girls Just want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 सोंग originally written by Robert Hazard and बना famous by सिंगर Cyndi Lauper.
It थी the first major single released by lauper as a solo artist और the lead-off single from her debut एल्बम She 's So Unusual.
lauper’s संस्करण gained recognition as a feminist anthem और promoted by an award-winning video.
It has महरूम covered on either an album or in live कॉन्सर्ट by over 30 other artists.
the single was lauper 's भेदन hit, reaching # 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984.
It remains one of Lauper 's signature songs and was a widely लोकप्रिय song during the era of its release, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '', `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 शीर्ष Music वीडियो '' '' and the `` VH1 : 100 Greatest Videos '' सूचियाँ ranked the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, क्रमशः.
The song received a ग्रैमी Award nomination for Record of the Year and बेहतरीन Female पॉप गायन Performance.
View of defibrillator electrode position and placement.
Defibrillation is a आम treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device used or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some मामले no training at all.
The केटो Institute is an American libertarian think टैंक headquartered in Washington, D.C.
it was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by मरे rothbard, Ed Crane and Charles Koch, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries, inc..
In July 1976, the name was changed to the केटो Institute.
according to the 2011 Global Go To Think टैंक Index, Cato is the 6th most influential US based think tank, रैंकिंग 3rd in Economic नीति and 2nd in Social Policy.
The संस्थान 's stated mission is `` to बढ़ाएँ the understanding of public policies based on the सिद्धान्त of limited government, free markets, individual liberty, and peace.
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate, एडवोकेट, promote, and disseminate applicable नीति प्रस्ताव that create फ़्री, open, and civil societies in the United States and throughout the संसार. ''
Cato scholars were नाजुक of George W. Bush 's Republican administration ( 2001–2009 ) on several issues, including the Iraq War, civil liberties, education, agriculture, उर्जा policy, and excessive सरकारी spending.
On other issues, they समर्थित Bush administration initiatives, most notably health care, Social Security, global warming, tax policy, and immigration.
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election, Cato विद्वानों criticized both major-party candidates, जॉन McCain and बराक ओबामा.
Cato has criticized President ओबामा 's stances on नीति issues चूंकि his inauguration, such as fiscal stimulus, healthcare reform, foreign policy, और the War on Drugs, while supporting उसके stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, do n't बताना and liberal immigration policy.
Dracula is an 1897 Gothic horror अनोखा by Irish author Bram Stoker.
Famous लिये introducing the character of the पिशाच गिनती Dracula, the novel tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to relocate इससे transylvania to England, और the battle between Dracula और a छोटी समूह of men and women led by Professor अब्राहम Van Helsing.
Dracula रै been assigned to many साहित्यिक genres including vampire literature, horror fiction, the गोथिक novel and invasion literature.
the novel touches on themes such as the role of महिलाओं in Victorian culture, sexual conventions, आव्रजन, colonialism, और post-colonialism.
Although Stoker did नहीं invent the पिशाच, he पारिभाषित its modern form, and the अनोखा रै spawned numerous नाट्य, film और television interpretations.
Quidditch is a competitive खेल in the wizarding world of the Harry Potter ब्रह्मांड, and is from the series of children 's novels and फिल्मों.
It is an extremely rough but very popular semi-contact sport, played by wizards and witches.
Matches हैं played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks, using four balls और six elevated ring-shaped लक्ष्य, three on each side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ).
in the हैरी Potter ब्रह्मांड, quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the स्थिति that association football holds as a globally popular sport.
The sport is स्मारकीय throughout the wizarding world.
Harry plays an important position for उसके house team at Hogwarts : he is the seeker and becomes the कप्तान in his sixth year there.
Regional and international competitions are mentioned throughout the series.
In Goblet of Fire, Quidditch at Hogwarts is cancelled for the tri-wizard Tournament, but Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup.
In addition, Harry uses his Quidditch skills to कैप्चर a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard Tournament ), to capture a flying key in Philosopher 's Stone, and on two key occasions in deathly Hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw 's Diadem, and during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring कौशल of the Seeker '' is useful to उसे in snatching the Elder wand out of the air.
Harry कुम्हार has owned two broomsticks, the Nimbus 2000 and the Firebolt, both of which are नष्ट by the series ' end.
the game has been adopted in the रियल world in the रूप of मगलू quidditch.
The United States Congress is the bicameral विधानमंडल of the federal government of the United States consisting of two घरों : the निम्नतर house known as the House of Representatives and the upper house known as the Senate.
Congress meets in the कैपिटल in Washington, D.C.
Both representatives and सीनेटरों are चुनी through direct चुनाव.
Congress has a total of 535 voting members : 435 members in the House of Representatives and 100 members in the सीनेट.
Members of the House of Representatives serve two-year शर्तें representing the people of a district.
congressional districts are apportioned to राज्य by population using the United States जनसांख्यिकी results, each state in the संघ having at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि in the हाउस of Representatives.
Regardless of population, each of the 50 states रै two senators ; the 100 senators each serve a six-year term.
The terms are staggered so every two years लगभग one-third of the सीनेट is up for चुनाव.
प्रत्येक staggered group of one-third of the senators हैं called 'classes '.
No state of the United States रै two senators from the same क्लास.
Most incumbents seek re-election, और their ऐतिहासिक likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 प्रतिशत.
In August 2012, a gallup poll reported that congress’s स्वीकृति rating amongst Americans was at 10 %, matching a 38-year low reached in November 2011.
`` a Little अधिक Country than That '' is the title of a song written by जॉय + Rory 's Rory ली Feek, Wynn Varble, and डॉन Poythress, and recorded by American देश artist Easton Corbin.
It was released in August 2009 as Corbin 's debut single और is included on his self-titled debut एल्बम.
In अप्रैल 2010, the song reached क्रमांक One on the country music charts, making Corbin the पहला male सोलो कलाकार in सात years to भेजें a debut single to Number One.
It रै been certified Gold by the riaa.
The BlackBerry is a line of बेतार handheld devices and सेवाएं designed and marketed by Research In गति Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry.
The first BlackBerry device, an email pager, was released in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices, the z10 and Q10, were announced on January 30, 2013.
The user interface varies by model ; सबसे feature a शारीरिक QWERTY keyboard, जबकि newer पीढियां have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard.
A BlackBerry can shoot वीडियो, take photos, खेल music, and perform online functions such as web-browsing and emailing.
They can also भेजें and receive push email and तत्काल संदेश जबकि maintaining a high level of security through on-device message एन्क्रिप्शन, and are designed to फलन as personal digital assistants.
BlackBerry डिवाइस support a large किस्में of instant messaging features, with the most popular being the मालिकाना ब्लैकबेरी मेसेंजर service.
The BlackBerry PlayBook is a tablet कंप्यूटर offered by the company.
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in June quarter of 2010 and the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped in सितंबर quarter of 2012.
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011, making its manufacturer the sixth most popular यंत्र maker ( 25 % of मोबाईल यंत्र sales are स्मार्टफ़ोन ).
the consumer BlackBerry Internet सेवा is available in 91 देशों विश्वव्यापी on over 500 mobile सेवा operators using विभिन्न मोबाईल technologies.
As of September 2012, वहीँ were eighty million subscribers worldwide to ब्लैकबेरी.
in 2011 the Caribbean and Latin अमेरिका had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones worldwide, साथ up to about 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device.
BlackBerry, iPhone, Android, और Windows Phone are considered the चार प्रमुख smartphone brands.
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United States, जिससे alludes to its excessive use by its owners and is a सन्दर्भ to the addictiveness of crack cocaine.
Use of the term CrackBerry became so फैली कि in नवम्बर 2006 Webster 's New World कॉलेज Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` नई Word of the Year. ''
An example of a demand curve shifting.
The शिफ़्ट इससे D1 To d2 अर्थात् an increase in माँग with consequences लिये the other variables
in अर्थशास्त्र, the demand curve is the आलेख depicting the relationship between the price of a निश्चित commodity and the amount of it that उपभोक्ता हैं willing और able to खरीदें at that given price.
It is a graphic प्रतिनिधित्व of a demand schedule.
the demand curve for सब consumers together follows from the माँग curve of every व्यक्तिगत consumer : the व्यक्तिगत demands at each price are added together.
Demand वक्र are used to estimate behaviors in competitive बाज़ार, and are often combined with supply curves to अनुमान the संतुलन price ( the price at जिससे sellers together are willing to sell the same amount as buyers साथ are willing to buy, also known as market clearing price ) and the equilibrium मात्रा ( the amount of कि good or service that will be उत्पादित and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market.
In a monopolistic market, the माँग curve facing the monopolist is simply the market demand curve.
Historia
by nikolaos Gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from यूनानी - historia, meaning `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term कि relates to पास्ट events as खूब as the डिस्कवरी, collection, संगठन, and presentation of information about ये events.
the term includes लौकिक, geologic, and organic history, but is often generically implied to mean human इतिहास.
Scholars who write about इतिहास are called इतिहासकारों.
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative to examine and analyse a अनुक्रम of past events, और objectively determine the patterns of cause and प्रभाव कि determine them.
इतिहासकारों sometimes debate the nature of history and its उपयोगिता by discussing the पढ़ाई of the अनुशासन as an end in itself and as a रास्ता of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present.
Stories common to a particular culture, but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding King Arthur ) are प्रायः classified as cultural heritage or legends, because they do not support the `` disinterested छानबीन '' जरूरी of the discipline of history.
कार्यक्रम occurring prior to written रिकार्ड are considered prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th century B.C. Greek historian is माना within the Western tradition to be the `` father of history '', और, along साथ his समकालीन Thucydides, helped form the मूलाधार for the modern study of human history.
Their कार्य continues to be पढ़ा today and the divide between the culture-focused हिरोडोटस and the military-focused Thucydides remains a पाइंट of contention or approach in modern ऐतिहासिक लिखने.
In the पूर्वी tradition, a state chronicle the वसन्त and Autumn annals was ज्ञात to be compiled इससे as early as 722 BCE although only 2nd century bce texts survived.
Ancient influences have helped spawn रूपांतर interpretations of the nature of इतिहास which have evolved over the centuries और continue to बदलें today.
The modern study of history is wide-ranging, and शामिल the study of specific regions and the पढ़ाई of certain topical or thematical तत्व of historical investigation.
Often history is taught as part of primary and secondary education, and the academic study of history is a major अनुशासन in University studies.
Malcolm X ( ; may 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm छोटी and also known as el-hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an African-American मुस्लिम minister और इंसान rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the अधिकारों of blacks, a man who indicted श्वेत America in the harshest terms for its crimes विरूद्ध black Americans.
Detractors accused him of उपदेश racism, black supremacy, and हिंसा.
he has been called one of the greatest and most influential अफ़्रीकी Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he was young, and at तनिक one of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, his mother थी placed in a mental hospital, and he was placed in a series of foster homes.
in 1946, at age 20, he गई to prison for breaking and entering.
In prison, Malcolm X became a member of the स्वदेश of islam ; after his parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, Malcolm x was the public face of the controversial group, but disillusionment साथ Nation of Islam सिर Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the स्वदेश in कूच 1964.
After a period of सफर in Africa and the Middle East, he returned to the संयुक्त States, where he संस्थापित Muslim मस्जिदे, Inc. and the संगठन of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a साल after leaving the Nation of Islam, he was assassinated by three members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time.
As a spokesman लिये the Nation of Islam he taught black सर्वोच्चता and advocated separation of black and श्वेत Americans —in contrast to the civil rights गति 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking साथ the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association साथ it, `` I किया many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain दिशा and told to कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी Muslim, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to कार्य with civil rights leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, और self-defense.
Henry merritt `` Hank '' Paulson, jr. ( born कूच 28, 1946 ) is an American banker who served as the 74th United States Secretary of the Treasury.
He had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive अधिकारी of Goldman Sachs, and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute, which he संस्थापित in 2011 to promote चिरस्थायी economic growth and a क्लीनर environment around the संसार, with an initial focus on the संयुक्त States and चीन.
a virtual machine ( vm ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying हार्डवेयर, which is presented to the application layer of the प्रणाली.
आभासी machines may be based on विशेषताएँ of a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर or emulate the computer architecture and functions of a real world कंप्यूटर.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that इंजेक्ट venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total प्रजाति diversity among all अन्य groups of organisms.
मकड़ियों are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica, और have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at तनिक 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have महरूम recorded by taxonomists ; however, वहीँ has been भ्रम within the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been प्रस्तावित since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in कि the usual body segments हैं fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, बेलनाकार pedicel.
Unlike insects, spiders do नहीं have antennae.
in all मगर the most primitive group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the सबसे centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as all उनके ganglia are fused into एक mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, मकड़ियों have no extensor मांसपेशियां in उनके limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens भालू appendages कि have महरूम modified into spinnerets कि extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands भीतर their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in size, आकार and the amount of sticky thread प्रयुक्त.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be एक of the earliest forms, and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant और diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from, and are बहुत similar to the सबसे आदिम surviving order, the Mesothelae.
the main groups of modern spiders, Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic period, पहले.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was वर्णित in 2008, लकिन all other ज्ञात species हैं predators, mostly preying on insects और on other spiders, although a few large species also लो पक्षियों and lizards.
Spiders use a चौड़ी range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it साथ sticky bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have acute vision, और hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their चुनाव of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, और they liquidize their food by flooding it साथ digestive enzymes and पीस it साथ the bases of their pedipalps, as they do नहीं have true jaws.
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid being खाया by the females.
males of most species survive a few matings, limited mainly by their short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of अंडे.
महिलाओं of अनेक species परवाह for their यंग, for उदाहरण by carrying them around or by sharing food with उन्हें.
A minority of species हैं social, building communal webs that may हाउस anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior सीमाएँ from precarious toleration, as in the widow मकड़ियों, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most दो years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity.
जबकि the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, scientists are now researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a संयोजन of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of सिंथेटिक materials, and spider रेशा जीनों have been inserted into स्तनधारियों and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional character and one of the two female लीड in the फॉक्स sitcom That '70s Show, appearing in all eight seasons.
Portrayed by Laura Prepon, Donna is the love interest to Eric forman.
US county household median income 2009.
Median US household आय, 2001-2011
household आय is a measure commonly used by the United States सरकारी and निजी institutions.
Each household is measured by the income of every resident over the age of 15.
Income शामिल मजदूरी and salaries, unemployment बीमे, विकलांगता payments, child support payments received, regular rental receipts, as well as कोई personal business, investment, or other kinds of income received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household आय had been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been चपटा and even decreased recently.
U.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
चरम गरीबी in the United राज्य, meaning households living on less than $ 2 प्रति दिन before government लाभ, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
the residents of the household do नहीं have to be related to the head of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a similar economic कॉन्टेक्स्ट, the use of household income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
कि the size of a household is not commonly लिया into account in such measures may distort कोई analysis of fluctuations within or among the household आय categories, and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
A पंजीकृत एजेंट, also ज्ञात as a resident agent or statutory agent, in संयुक्त States business law, is a business or individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a कारोबार एंटिटी is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons.
The registered agent 's address may also be where the state will भेजें the paperwork for the yearly renewal of the business entity 's charter.
The पंजीकृत agent for a business entity may be an individual member of the company, or ( more often ) a third party, ऐसे as the organization 's lawyer or a service company.
Failure to properly maintain a registered agent can affect a company negatively.
Office for Emergency Management.
Office of War Information war poster 1941 - 1945
`` जीवन, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the संयुक्त States Declaration of Independence.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable अधिकारों '' with जिससे all human beings are endowed by their creator for their protection of which they संस्थान governments.
Fencing, is typically divided into Olympic fencing, Classical fencing and historical fencing,.
The sport of fencing ( commonly पुकारा olympic fencing or competitive fencing ) is divided into तीन weapon श्रेणी : foil, sabre and épée.
Classical fencing uses the same three weapons, but approaches fencing as a martial art.
Competitive तलवारबाजी is one of पाँच sports which has been featured at every one of the आधुनिक Olympic Games, the अन्य four being Athletics, साइकिलिंग, Swimming, and जिमनास्टिक्स.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ), also पुकारा simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a large muscle group that includes the four प्रचलित muscles on the front of the thigh.
it is the great extensor muscle of the knee, forming a large fleshy mass जिससे covers the front and पहलू of the femur.
The proper Latin plural form of the adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites.
In modern English usage, quadriceps is used in both singular and बहुवचन.
the singular form quadricep, produced by hypercorrection, is frequently used.
RMS टाइटैनिक was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic समंदर on 15 April 1912 after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton, UK to New York City, US.
the डूब of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502 people in एक of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern history.
the RMS Titanic थी the largest ship afloat at the समय of her maiden voyage.
She was the second of तीन Olympic क्लास समंदर liners operated by the श्वेत Star लकीर, and she was built by the Harland और Wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews, who perished with the ship, as her नवल architect.
On her maiden voyage, वो carried 2,224 passengers and क्रू.
Under the command of Edward Smith, her यात्री included some of the wealthiest people in the world, as well as सैंकड़ों of emigrants from Great Britain and Ireland, Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new जीवन in North America.
The ship थी designed to be the पिछला word in comfort and luxury, with an on-board gymnasium, तैराकी pool, पुस्तकालयों, high-class restaurants and opulent cabins.
She also had a powerful wireless टेलीग्राफ provided for the convenience of passengers as well as for operational use.
हालांकि she had advanced safety features such as watertight compartments and remotely activated watertight द्वार, वो lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard.
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried तभी enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly more than हाफ of the number travelling on the maiden voyage, and one-third her total passenger and crew capacity.
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912, Titanic called at Cherbourg in फ़्रांस और Queenstown ( अभी cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards towards New York.
On 14 April 1912, four days into the क्रासिंग and about 375 मील ( 600 km ) south of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड, she hit an हिमशैल at 11:40 pm ship 's time.
The glancing collision caused titanics hull plates to buckle inwards along her starboard side and opened five of her सोलह watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water.
Meanwhile, यात्री and some crew members यहूद evacuated in lifeboats, many of which यहूद launched only partly loaded.
A disproportionate number of men were बाएँ सवार because of a `` महिलाओं and children first `` प्रोटोकॉल followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats.
By 2:20 AM, she broke apart and foundered, with well over one thousand people still aboard.
Just under two hours after the टाइटैनिक foundered, the cunard लाइनर rms carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking, where she brought aboard an अनुमानित 705 survivors.
The disaster थी greeted with विश्वव्यापी shock और outrage at the huge loss of life और the regulatory और operational failures that had led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain and the United राज्य led to major improvements in maritime सुरक्षा.
One of उनके most important legacies थी the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention for the सुरक्षा of Life at Sea ( SOLAS ), जिससे still governs maritime safety today.
additionally, several new wireless regulations were passed around the world in an effort to learn इससे the many missteps in बेतार communications -- -which could have saved अनेक अधिक passengers.
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions and were left destitute ; many families, विशेषकर those of crew members from Southampton, खोया their प्राथमिक bread-winners.
They were helped by an outpouring of public sympathy and charitable donations.
Some of the male survivors were अभियुक्त of कायरता for leaving the ship जबकि people were still on board ; the White Star Line 's chairman, J. Bruce Ismay, faced social ostracism for the rest of उसके life.
The wreck of the टाइटैनिक remains on the seabed, split in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of.
Since its डिस्कवरी in 1985, thousands of artefacts have been recovered and put on display at museums around the world.
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in history, her मेमोरी kept alive by numerous books, folk songs, films, exhibits, and memorials.
The human लेग is the entire lower extremity or limb of the human body, including the foot, thigh and even the hip or gluteal region ; however, the precise definition in human anatomy refers तभी to the खण्ड of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle.
Legs are used for standing, walking, कूद, running, kicking, and similar activities, and constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of तुर्कों, सहित population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and अन्य aspects of the जनसांख्यिकी.
As of 2010, the population of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 million साथ a growth रेट of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ).
The जनसांख्यिकी is relatively young with 26.6 % falling in the 0-14 आयु bracket.
According to the OECD/World Bank population statistics in Turkey the population growth इससे 1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29 %.
1998 BMW 750iL
बुइक Roadmaster
A full-size car is a marketing term used in North America for an automobile larger than a mid-size car.
In the United राज्य, the EPA uses the term `` large car '' to denote full-size cars.
Joel धूसर ( born April 11, 1932 ) is an अमरीकी stage and screen actor, singer, and dancer, known for उसके role as the निपुण of Ceremonies in both the stage and film अनुकूलन of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret.
He has won the Academy पुरस्कार, Tony Award and सुनहरी Globe Award.
He also originated the role of George M. Cohan in the musical George M !
in 1973, the जादूगर in the musical Wicked.
Grey also स्ट्रक्चर in the Broadway revivals of anything Goes as Moonface Martin, and Chicago as Amos हार्ट.
जेम्स Madison, Jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( o.s. कूच 5 ) – June 28, 1836 ) was an American statesman and political theorist, the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “father of the Constitution” लिये होने instrumental in the drafting of the United States Constitution और as the कुंजी champion and author of the United States विधेयक of Rights.
He served as a politician much of his adult life.
After the constitution had महरूम drafted, Madison became one of the leaders in the movement to ratify it.
His collaboration साथ Alexander Hamilton and John jay produced the Federalist Papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated only in New York at the समय, they would later be considered among the most important polemics in support of the Constitution.
He was also a delegate to the वर्जिनिया संवैधानिक ratifying सम्मेलन, and was instrumental to the successful अनुसमर्थन effort in वर्जिनिया.
Like most of his contemporaries, Madison changed his political दृश्य दौरान उसके life.
During the drafting and अनुसमर्थन of the संविधान, he favored a strong नेशनल सरकारी, though later he grew to एहसान stronger state सरकारें, before settling between the two extremes late in his जीवन.
In 1789, मैडिसन became a leader in the new House of Representatives, drafting many मौलिक laws.
He is notable for drafting the पहला ten amendments to the Constitution, and thus is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights ``.
Madison worked closely साथ अध्यक्ष George Washington to organize the new federal सरकारी.
तोड़कर with Hamilton और what became the Federalist Party in 1791, Madison and Thomas Jefferson organized what they called the Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican पार्टी )
as Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ), Madison supervised the Louisiana खरीदें, which doubled the nation’s size.
After his election to the presidency, he presided over renewed prosperity for several years.
As president ( 1809–17 ), after the failure of diplomatic protests और a व्यापार embargo against Great Britain, he led the nation into the War of 1812.
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition, he wanted to end the influence of the British among their Indian allies, whose resistance blocked United States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes.
Madison found the war to be an administrative दुःस्वप्न, as the United States had neither a strong army nor वित्तीय system ; as a result, he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong सैन्य, as well as the national बैंको, which he had long opposed.
जैसे other वर्जिनिया statesmen in the slave society, he was a slaveholder who inherited his plantation ज्ञात as Montpelier, and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other फसलों.
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that allowed three-fifths of the enumerated population of slaves to be counted for representation.
`` Roman 's Revenge '' is a song performed by अमरीकी rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday.
it was written by Minaj and rapper Eminem, जो is भी featured in the song, and was produced by Swizz Beatz.
it was released exclusively on October 30, 2010 through the us itunes Store, as a promotional release preceding the एल्बम 's रिलीज.
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim और minaj, where many people felt the song was directed at Lil ' Kim and regarded around her feelings towards Minaj 's वृद्धि to fame.
The song सन्दर्भ Minaj 's alter-ego, Roman Zolanski, और Eminem 's alter-ego, पतला Shady.
the song garnered very positive reviews from critics, most of which praised the song as a stand-out track on the album.
An official रिमिक्स featuring Minaj 's mentor, Lil वेन, was released to the US iTunes स्टोर on January 19, 2011.
The instrumental was used in the सोंग 'Firing Squad ' by Horseshoe g.a.n.g.
Hydraulic fluid होने poured.
Hydraulic fluids, also पुकारा hydraulic liquids, हैं the medium by which शक्ति is transferred in hydraulic मशीनरी.
Common hydraulic fluids are based on mineral oil or water.
उदाहरण of equipment कि might उपयोग hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes, हाइड्रोलिक brakes, power steering प्रणालियों, transmissions, garbage ट्रक, aircraft उड़ान कंट्रोल प्रणालियों, lifts, and औद्योगिक machinery.
Hydraulic systems जैसे the ones mentioned above will work most efficiently if the हाइड्रोलिक fluid used has no compressibility
Mahindra Tractor
Mahindra Tractors, the फार्म equipment division of Mahindra & महिंद्रा, builds and स्त्रोत tractors that are sold विश्वव्यापी across six continents.
Mahindra is also among the top three tractor manufacturers in the संसार.
Mahindra has a huge consumer आधार in India, China and America and a growing आधार in Australia.
The company builds more tractors in India than any अन्य manufacturer, and has the capacity to build 150,000 tractors a साल.
In 1963, M & M formed a joint venture साथ International Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate लिये the भारतीय मार्केट.
Armed साथ engineering, tooling and manufacturing know-how gained from this relationship, M & M developed इसके first tractor, the b-275.
महिंद्रा Tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 units annually is one of the largest ट्रैक्टर companies in the world, and is number एक in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world.
To expand into the growing tractor market in China, महिंद्रा acquired majority stake in Jiangling.
to raise awareness about महिंद्रा in the US, Mahindra यूएसए announced its new sponsorship in the nascar Nationwide Series with R3 मोटरस्पोर्ट, जिससे is participating with a # 23 Mahindra tractors शेवरलेट.
The car will be चलित by Robert रिचर्डसन, Jr. Mahindra USA, Inc. announced a 17-race primary and 18-race संबद्ध sponsorship for the 2009 NASCAR देशभर Series.
साथ this sponsorship, महिंद्रा was the पहला Indian company to sponsor a car in NASCAR.
in 2008, Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald मोटरस्पोर्ट team which ran the # 81 car in the NASCAR देशभर Series.
The power6 is a microprocessor developed by ibm that implemented the शक्ति isa v.2.03.
When it became available in प्रणालियों in 2007, it succeeded the POWER5+ as IBM 's flagship Power microprocessor.
it is part of the eCLipz project, said to have a लक्ष्य of converging IBM 's server hardware where practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries, pSeries, और zSeries ).
The American middle class is a social class in the United राज्य.
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion और common language use, contemporary social scientists have put forward several, more or less congruent, theories on the American middle class.
Depending on class मॉडल used, the मध्य class may constitute anywhere इससे 25 % to 66 % of households.
One of the पहला प्रमुख studies of the middle class in America was श्वेत Collar : The अमरीकी Middle वर्ग, published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills मिलों Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists ऐसे as डेनिस Gilbert of Hamilton College commonly divide the middle class into two sub-groups.
constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the अपर or professional middle class consisting of अत्यधिक educated, salaried professionals and managers.
Constituting roughly one third of households is the lower middle class consisting ज़्यादातर of semi-professionals, skilled craftsmen and lower-level management.
Middle-class persons commonly have a आरामदायक standard of living, significant economic security, considerable work autonomy and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves.
Members of the middle class belong to diverse groups which overlap साथ each other.
Overall, middle-class व्यक्तियों, especially upper-middle-class individuals, are characterized by conceptualizing, creating and consulting.
Thus, college शिक्षा is one of the main indicators of middle-class status.
Largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations, middle class values tend to emphasize independence, adherence to मूलभूत मानकों, valuing innovation और respecting non-conformity.
नीतियां more active than अन्य demographics, college शिक्षित मध्य class professionals are split between the two प्रमुख parties.
Income varies considerably from near the national median to well in excess of $ 100,000.
Household income figures, however, do not सदा reflect class status and standard of living, as they are largely बहकावे by the number of income earners and fail to recognize household आकार.
It is इसलिए possible for a large, dual-earner, lower middle class household to out-earn a small, one-earner, अपर middle class household.
The मध्य classes हैं very influential, as they encompass the majority of मतदाता, writers, teachers, पत्रकारों, and editors.
Most societal trends in the US originate within the middle classes.
The following is a सूची of शनिवार Night Live cast members, past and present.
The डाल सदस्यों of Saturday रात्रि सजीव were originally referred to as the `` Not Ready For Prime समय खिलाड़ी ''.
The original डाल ( l to r ) : Laraine न्युमैन, John belushi, Jane Curtin, gilda Radner, Dan Aykroyd, Garrett Morris, and चेवी Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San फ्रांसिस्को earthquake, remembered as one of the worst natural disasters in United States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an event of substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक क्षति or destruction, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A disaster can be ostensively defined as any tragic event stemming from events such as earthquakes, floods, अनर्थकारी accidents, fires, or explosions.
It is a phenomenon कि can cause damage to जीवन and property और destroy the economic, सोशल and cultural life of people.
In contemporary academia, disasters are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk.
These risks are the उत्पाद of a संयोजन of दोनो hazard/s and vulnerability.
Hazards कि strike in areas with low vulnerability will never become disasters, as is the case in uninhabited regions.
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – अधिक than 95 percent of all मौतों caused by disasters occur in developing countries, और losses due to natural disasters हैं 20 टाइम्स greater ( as a percentage of GDP ) in विकासशील देशों than in industrialized countries.
in computing, booting ( भी ज्ञात as booting up ) is the initial नियत of operations कि a computer system performs when electrical power to the CPU is switched on.
The process begins जब a computer is turned on for the first time or is re-energized after being turned off, and ends when the computer is ready to perform its normal operations.
On modern general purpose computers, this can take tens of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating and initializing peripheral devices, and then finding, loading and starting an operating प्रणाली.
Many कंप्यूटर systems also allow these operations to be initiated by a software कमांड without cycling शक्ति, in what is ज्ञात as a soft reboot, though कुछ of the initial परिचालन might be skipped on a soft reboot.
A boot loader is a कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम that loads the main operating system or runtime environment for the computer after completion of the self-tests.
The computer term बूट is short for bootstrap or bootstrap load and derives इससे the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
The usage calls attention to the requirement that, if most software is loaded onto a computer by other तन्त्र already running on the computer, some mechanism must exist to load आरंभिक software onto the computer.
जल्दी कंप्यूटर used a variety of ad-hoc methods to get a small program into memory to solve this problem.
the आविष्कार of integrated circuit read-only memory ( rom ) of various प्रकार solved this paradox by allowing computers to be shipped with a start up program that could नहीं be erased.
Growth in the capacity of rom has अनुमत ever more elaborate start up प्रक्रियाओं to be implemented.
on general purpose computers, the boot process begins with the execution of an आरंभिक कार्यक्रम stored in boot roms or read in another fashion.
In कुछ older कंप्यूटर, the initial program might have been the application to चलाएं, if no operating system was used, or the operating प्रणाली.
in other computers, the initial program is a boot loader that may तब लोड into random-access memory ( RAM ), from nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a hard डिस्क drive ) or, in some older computers, from a मीडियम ऐसे as punched cards, punched tape, or magnetic tape in older computers, the binary कोड of an operating system or runtime पर्यावरण and then execute it.
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities, it may, instead, लोड a larger और more capable secondary boot loader, जिससे होता तब load the operating system or runtime environment.
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot sequence to शुरू functioning and जब turned on may simply run operational programs that are stored in ROM.
Firebird is an open source SQL relational database management system that runs on लिनक्स, Windows, and a variety of Unix.
the database forked from Borland 's खोलें source edition of InterBase in 2000, but चूंकि firebird 1.5 the code has महरूम largely rewritten.
Outsourcing is the contracting out of an internal business process to a third-party organization.
the practice of contracting a business process out to a third party rather than staffing it internally is common in the modern अर्थव्यवस्था.
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in the United राज्य निकट the turn of the 21st century.
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी and assets from one firm to another, but not always.
The definition of outsourcing includes both foreign and domestic contracting, और sometimes includes offshoring, which means relocating a कारोबार function to another देश.
Financial savings from lower international मजदूर rates is a बिग motivation लिये outsourcing/offshoring.
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing, which entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house, and is sometimes accomplished via vertical integration.
However, a business can provide a contract service to another business बगैर necessarily insourcing that कारोबार process.
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that कल्याणकारी acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ), a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the immune प्रणाली allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
संक्रमण with HIV occurs by the ट्रांसफ़र of blood, semen, vaginal fluid, pre-ejaculate, or स्तन milk.
Within these bodily fluids, hiv is present as both free virus particles and virus within infected प्रतिरक्षा cells.
HIV infects vital cells in the human immune प्रणाली such as helper T cells ( specifically CD4 + t cells ), macrophages, and dendritic कोशिकाएं.
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct viral हत्या of infected cells, और killing of infected cd4+ t cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes कि recognize infected cells.
When cd4+ t कोशिका संख्याएँ decline below a critical स्तर, cell-mediated immunity is lost, and the body becomes progressively अधिक susceptible to opportunistic infections.
The firepole in a fire station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also पुकारा a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in आग स्टेशन, allowing firefighters responding to an alarm to quickly descend to the ground floor faster than by using a standard staircase.
The device was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon, in शिकागो, Illinois, although it is often incorrectly credited to the बोस्टन Fire Department.
Mary Poppins is the शीर्षक अक्षर of a series of children 's books written by P. L. ट्रेवर्स.
Throughout the Mary Poppins series, which lasted from 1934 to 1988, Mary shepard was the illustrator and acted as a second author.
The books centre on a magical अंग्रेज़ी nanny, Mary Poppins.
She is blown by the East wind to Number Seventeen Cherry Tree Lane, London, and into the बैंको ' household to care for their children.
मुठभेड़ों with चिमनी sweeps, shopkeepers and various adventures follow until Mary poppins abruptly leaves, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
the adventures लो place over a total of eight किताबे.
however, only the first three books feature Mary poppins arriving and leaving.
The later five books recount previously unrecorded adventures from her असली three visits.
as P. L. Travers explains in उसके introduction to Mary poppins in the पार्क, `` She can not forever arrive and depart. ''
The किताबे were adapted in 1964 into a musical Disney फिल्मी starring Julie एंड्रयूज and Dick Van Dyke.
In 2004, Disney नाट्य produced a stage musical adaptation in the West End theatre.
The stage musical was transferred to Broadway in 2006 where it ran until इसके closing on March 3, 2013.
It रै been highly कामयाब, as was the 1964 film.
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of आयु teen romantic drama film developed alongside Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the same name.
The film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson in उसके feature फिल्मी directorial debut and co-written by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie.
The पिछला Song stars Miley Cyrus, Liam Hemsworth, and ग्रेग Kinnear and follows a troubled teenager as वो reconnects with उसके estranged father और जलप्रपात in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United राज्य beach town.
The फिल्मी is distributed by Touchstone Pictures.
Sparks was approached to write both the फिल्मी 's screenplay and the अनोखा.
Sparks completed the screenplay in January 2009, prior to the completion of the novel, बनाना The Last Song उसके पहला script to be optioned for film.
The setting, originally in उत्तर Carolina जैसे the novel, moved to जॉर्जिया after the states had campaigned for months to मेजबान production.
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island, Georgia and nearby Savannah, The Last सोंग became the first movie to be both shot and set in Tybee Island.
Filming lasted इससे June 15 to August 18, 2009 with much of it occurring on the island 's beach and बांध.
The Last सोंग was originally अनुसूचित लिये wide release on जनवरी 8, 2010, but थी postponed to March 31, 2010.
Written Simlish
simlish is a fictional language featured in ea Games ' Sim series of games.
It debuted in SimCopter, and रै been especially prominent in the Sims, The Sims 2 and The Sims 3.
The सीम development team created the unique simlish भाषा by experimenting साथ fractured Ukrainian, French, Latin, Finnish, English, Fijian, Cebuano, and Tagalog.
Simlish can also be heard in simcity 4, SimCity Societies and simcity 2013, but far less अक्सर.
Civilized जीव in Spore can भी be taught to speak Simlish.
it is also प्रदर्शित to an extent in firaxis खेल ' Sid Meier 's simgolf.
Designer Will Wright was सचेत of the need लिये dialogue in the खेल, but विचार कि using a real language होता make it sound too repetitive and would also be too costly to hire translators for world languages.
Initially, inspired by the Native American code talkers of संसार War ii, Sims निर्माता Will Wright and language expert मार्क Gimbel suggested experimenting with the Navajo language to create Simlish.
However, they ultimately decided कि Simlish worked best as a `` भाषा '' made up of gibberish words that could n't be translated, so that its meaning would be left open to the imagination of the खिलाड़ी.
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense language '' turned out to be the right विकास choice, as people were capable of imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real एक.
The actual sound of Simlish was created improvisationally by voice अभिनेताओं Stephen kearin और Gerri Lawlor.
An उदाहरण of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on ब्लेड जड़ें of a V2500 IAE aircraft इंजन.
Step 1 : The UT probe is placed on the root of the blades to be inspected साथ the सहायता of a special borescope tool ( वीडियो probe ).
Step 2 : Instrument settings हैं input.
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over the blade root.
In this मामला, an indication ( शिखर in the data ) through the red line ( or gate ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the left of that दायरा indicates a crack.
Principle of अल्ट्रासोनिक testing.
LEFT : A probe भेजना a sound wave into a test material.
There हैं two indications, one from the initial pulse of the probe, और the second due to the back wall गूंज.
सही : a defect creates a third indication and simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is determined by the ratio d/e
In ultrasonic परीक्षण ( UT ), very short ultrasonic pulse-waves साथ center बारंबारता ranging from 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect internal खामियां or to characterize सामग्री.
A आम example is ultrasonic thickness measurement, which tests the thickness of the test object, for उदाहरण, to monitor pipework corrosion.
अल्ट्रासोनिक testing is प्रायः performed on steel and other metals and alloys, though it can also be used on concrete, लकडी and composites, albeit with कम resolution.
It is a form of non-destructive testing used in many industries including aerospace, automotive and other transportation sectors.
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), also called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ), is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation.
vascular ischemia of the toes with characteristic cyanosis.
In medicine, ischemia, भी spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; from यूनानी भाषा ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a restriction or thinning or to मेक or grow thin/lean, haema रक्त ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues, causing a shortage of oxygen and ग्लूकोज needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ).
Ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood vessels, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue.
It also means local anemia in a given भाग of a body sometimes resulting from congestion ( such as vasoconstriction, thrombosis or embolism ).
bas सिंड्रोम ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome, also known as trisomy 21, is a जेनेटिक disorder caused by the presence of सब or part of a third copy of chromosome 21.
Down syndrome is the most आम chromosome abnormality in humans.
It is typically associated with a delay in cognitive क्षमता ( mental retardation, or mr ) and physical growth, and a particular set of facial characteristics.
The average iq of यंग adults with bas syndrome is around 50, whereas young adults बगैर the condition typically have an IQ of 100.
( MR has historically been defined as an IQ below 70. )
A large proportion of individuals with bas सिंड्रोम have a severe degree of बौद्धिक विकलांगता.
bas syndrome is named after John Langdon Down, the अंग्रेजों physician जो वर्णित the syndrome in 1866.
the condition was clinically described earlier by Jean Etienne dominique Esquirol in 1838 और Edouard Seguin in 1844.
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959.
bas syndrome can be identified in a baby at birth or before birth by prenatal screening.
Pregnancies with this निदान are often terminated.
The सीडीसी estimates that about one of every 691 babies born in the United States each year is born with Down syndrome.
Many children with Down सिंड्रोम are educated in regular school classes while अन्य आवश्यकता specialised educational सुविधाएं.
Some children graduate from high school, and, in the US, there हैं increasing opportunities लिये participating in post-secondary education.
Education and proper care has been shown to improve quality of life significantly.
Many adults साथ Down Syndrome are able to work at paid employment in the जातियाँ, जबकि others require a more sheltered कार्य environment.
Hot flashes ( भी ज्ञात as hot flushes, or night sweats if they happen at रात्रि ) are a symptom which may have several other causes, but which is often caused by the changing hormone levels कि are characteristic of menopause.
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284m ), known informally as the G.I. Bill, was a law that provided a range of लाभ for returning World War II दिग्गजों ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
लाभ included low-cost mortgages, low-interest loans to प्रारंभ a business or farm, cash payments of ट्यूशन and living expenses to attend college, high स्कूल or vocational शिक्षा, as well as एक year of unemployment compensation.
It was available to every veteran who had been on active duty during the युद्ध years for at least ninety days and था not been dishonorably discharged ; कॉम्बैट was not required.
By the end of the program in 1956, roughly 2.2 million veterans had used the G.I. Bill education benefits in order to attend colleges or universities, and an अतिरिक्त 6.6 million used these benefits for some kind of training program.
Since the original 1944 law, the term रै come to include other veteran लाभ programs created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service.
Historians and अर्थशास्त्रियों consider the G.I. Bill a प्रमुख political success—especially in contrast to the treatments of संसार War I veterans—and a major contribution to America 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth.
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal कि occurred in the United राज्य in the 1970s as a result of the June 17, 1972 break-in at the Democratic National कमेटी headquarters at the Watergate office complex in Washington, d.C., and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement.
The कांड eventually led to the resignation of रिचर्ड Nixon, the President of the United States, on August 9, 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. अध्यक्ष.
The कांड also resulted in the indictment, trial, conviction, and incarceration of forty-three persons, dozens of whom यहूद Nixon 's top प्रशासन officials.
The affair began with the arrest of five men for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) headquarters at the Watergate जटिल on June 17, 1972.
the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) कनेक्ट cash found on the burglars to a slush fund used by the Committee for the Re-Election of the President, the आधिकारिक organization of Nixon 's campaign.
In July 1973, as evidence आरोहित विरूद्ध the president 's स्टाफ, including testimony provided by former स्टाफ members in an investigation conducted by the Senate Watergate कमेटी, it was नाज़िल that President Nixon था a tape-recording system in his offices and he had recorded अनेक conversations.
रिकार्डिंग from these tapes implicated the president, revealing he had attempted to कवर up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on that था taken place during उसके administration, both before and after the break-in.
After a protracted श्रेणी of bitter court लड़ाइयों, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the अध्यक्ष था to hand over the tapes to सरकारी investigators ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain महाभियोग in the House of प्रतिनिधि and a दमदार possibility of a conviction in the सीनेट, Nixon resigned the प्रेसिडेंसी on August 9, 1974.
His successor, Gerald Ford, तब issued a pardon to उसे.
Elizabeth Imogene webber ( formerly Lansing and Spencer ) is a fictional अक्षर on the ABC Daytime soap opera General Hospital.
Elizabeth is the पोती of Dr. Steve हार्डी ( जॉन Beradino ), one of the originating core characters of the series.
Rebecca Herbst originated the character on August 1, 1997 and has been the only contract actress to play the role.
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings, Lucky Spencer and Elizabeth Webber and Jason Morgan and Elizabeth Webber.
the United States प्रेसिडेंसी of रोनाल्ड Reagan, भी known as the reagan administration, was a रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20, 1981, to January 20, 1989.
Domestically, the administration favored reducing सरकारी programs and introduced the largest across-the-board tax cuts in American history.
The economic policies enacted in 1981, ज्ञात as `` Reaganomics ``, were an उदाहरण of supply-side economics.
Reagan aimed to encourage entrepreneurship and limit the growth of social spending, as well as the कटौती of regulation and inflation.
Economic growth saw a strong recovery in the 1980s, helping reagan to win a landslide re-election.
The national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding foreign policy, the administration was steadfastly anti-communist, कॉलिंग the Soviet Union an `` evil empire `` और ending 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the विशाल buildup of the military प्रारंभ by his पूर्ववर्ती, including an invasion of Grenada, the first major overseas action by u.S. troops since the end of the वियतनाम War.
The `` reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to paramilitary forces seeking to फेकने communist governments, particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan.
Reagan भी promoted नई technologies such as missile defense प्रणालियों in order to confront the Soviets and their allies.
in diplomacy, Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, and he met with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four times, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '', or the Age of Reagan in recognition of the political realignment both भीतर and beyond the u.S. in favor of उसके brand of conservatism and his आस्था in फ़्री markets.
The Reagan administration worked toward the collapse of Soviet Communism, and it किया collapse just as he left office.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar संसार with the u.S. as the world 's sole महाशक्ति.
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term, reagan खुद बाएँ दफ्तर with a 63 percent स्वीकृति rating, one of the higher approval ratings of दूँ presidents.
After years of unstinting तारीफ़ from the right, और unrelenting criticism from the बाएँ, historian David Henry पाता that by 2009 a consensus था emerged among विद्वानों कि Reagan revived conservatism and turned the स्वदेश to the right by demonstrating a `` pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system.
Furthermore, says Henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the presidency and American self-confidence, and contributed critically to ending the Cold War.
Crude death rate by country ( 2006 ).
Mortality rate is a measure of the number of deaths ( in general, or due to a विशिष्ट कारण ) in a population.
Scaled to the आकार of that population, प्रति unit of time.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in units of deaths प्रति 1000 individuals per year ; thus, a mortality रेट of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire जनसांख्यिकी, or 0.95 % out of the कुल.
It is distinct from morbidity rate, which refers to the number of individuals in poor health during a given time period ( the व्यापकता rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ).
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the number of deaths among a set of diagnosed हॉस्पिटल cases लिये a disease or injury, rather than लिये the general population of a country or जातीय समूह.
This disease mortality statistic is अधिक precisely referred to as `` मामला fatality rate `` ( CFR ).
One distinguishes:
The crude death rate, the total number of deaths per year per 1000 people.
the crude death रेट for the पूरे world is about 8.37 per 1000 per year according to the current CIA World Factbook.
The perinatal mortality rate, the sum of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births.
The maternal mortality अनुपात, the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in same time period.
The maternal mortality रेट, the number of मातृ मौतों प्रति 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive आयु in the population ( generally defined as 15–44 years of age ).
The शिशु mortality rate, the number of deaths of children less than 1 साल old per 1000 live births.
the child mortality रेट, the क्रमांक of मौतों of children कम than 5 सालो old per 1000 live births.
the standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional comparison to the numbers of deaths that would have been expected if the जनसांख्यिकी had been of a standard संयोजन in terms of age, gender, इत्यादि.
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) - This refers to the total number of deaths per year per 1000 लोगों of a given आयु ( e.g. age 62 पिछला जन्मदिवस ).
In regard to the or failure of medical treatment or procedures, एक would भी distinguish:
The early mortality रेट, the total number of deaths in the early चरण of an ongoing treatment, or in the period immediately following an treatment.
The late mortality rate, the total number of मौतों in the late stages of an ongoing treatment, or a significant length of time after an acute treatment.
Note that the crude death rate as defined ऊपर and applied to a whole population can give a misleading impression.
The crude death रेट depends on the age ( and gender ) specific mortality rates and the age ( and लिंग ) distribution of the population.
the number of deaths per 1000 लोगों can be higher for developed nations than in less-developed countries, despite life expectancy being higher in developed countries due to standards of स्वास्थ्य being better.
This happens because विकसित countries typically have a completely अलग population age distribution, with a much higher proportion of older people, due to both lower recent birth rates and lower mortality rates.
A more complete picture of मृत्यु is given by a जीवन table which shows the mortality rate separately for each आयु.
a life table is necessary to give a good estimate of जीवन expectancy.
an otoacoustic emission ( oae ) is a sound which is generated from भीतर the भीतरी ear.
having been predicted by Thomas सुनहरा in 1948, its existence was पहला demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have since महरूम shown to arise by a number of different सेल्यूलर mechanisms within the inner ear.
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the भीतरी ear has been damaged, so oaes are प्रायः used in the laboratory and the clinic as a measure of inner ear health.
Broadly speaking, there are two types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ), which can occur without बाह्य stimulation, and जगाई otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ), which require an evoking stimulus.
Hurricane Tomas was the nineteenth नामित storm and बारहवीं hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season.
Tomas विकसित from a tropical wave east of the windward Islands on October 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it moved through the Windward Islands and passed very near संत लूसिया.
बाद reaching Category 2 status on the Saffir-Simpson स्केल, Tomas जल्दी weakened to a tropical storm in the central Caribbean Sea, due to strong wind shear and dry air.
Tomas later regained hurricane status as it reorganized निकट the Windward passage.
Throughout the hurricane 's path, 71 people are known to have been killed, 14 of जिसको यहूद in Saint Lucia.
Monetary losses throughout the Windward Islands were estimated at us $ 588 million, मुख्यतः in Saint Lucia.
In the wake of the storm in Haiti, flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in दिसम्बर 2010, 55 people were killed in Cuba और Hispanola, though the distribution of these fatalities are unknown.
overall damage इससे the storm was at least $ 741 लाख.
Victoria Jackson ( born अगस्त 2, 1959 ) is an अमरीकी comedian, actress, satirist, singer and internet blogger best known as a डाल member of the NBC television sketch comedy श्रेणी शनिवार रात्रि Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992.
She रै received attention as a vocal critic of President Barack ओबामा, और is an क्रियाशील participant in the चाय Party movement.
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by भारी reliance on techniques like fragmentation, paradox, and questionable narrators, and is often ( हालांकि not exclusively ) defined as a style or trend जिससे emerged in the post–World War II era.
Postmodern works हैं seen as a प्रतिक्रिया against Enlightenment thinking and Modernist approaches to literature.
Postmodern literature, like postmodernism as a whole, tends to resist definition or classification as a `` गति ''.
Indeed, the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory, particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches, and the subversions of the implicit contract between लेखक, text and रीडर by which its works हैं often characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy होने retrospectively inducted into the fold.
जबकि there is little consensus on the precise विशेषताएँ, पैमाना, और महत्व of postmodern साहित्य, as is often the case with artistic movements, postmodern literature is commonly defined in relation to a precursor.
For उदाहरण, a postmodern साहित्यिक work tends not to conclude with the neatly tied-up समाप्ति as is often मिला in modernist literature, but often parodies it.
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate chance over craft, and further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's प्राधिकार.
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of भेद between high and कम culture through the उपयोग of pastiche, the combination of subjects और जाति not previously deemed fit for literature.
Enigma is an electronic musical प्रोजेक्ट संस्थापित in Germany by Michael Cretu, दाउद Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990.
The romanian-born Cretu conceived the पहेली project while working in Germany, but based his recording studio A.R.T. Studios in Ibiza, Spain, इससे the early 1990s जबतक May 2009, where he has recorded all of पहेली 's studio releases to तिथि.
Cretu is दोनो the composer and the producer of the प्रोजेक्ट.
His former wife, pop सिंगर Sandra, प्रायः provided vocals on Enigma tracks.
Jens Gad co-arranged and played guitar on three of the Enigma albums.
पीटर कॉर्नेलियस भी contributed to Enigma during the 1990s.
सात studio एल्बम have महरूम उत्पादित under the name of the project.
scooby-doo is an American एनिमेटेड कार्टून franchise, comprising several animated television series produced इससे 1969 to the present दिन.
The original series, Scooby-Doo, Where हैं You !
, थी created for Hanna-Barbera Productions by writers Joe माणिक्य और केन Spears in 1969.
This Saturday morning cartoon श्रेणी प्रदर्शित four teenagers— Fred Jones, Daphne Blake, velma Dinkley, and Norville `` Shaggy '' Rogers — और their talking brown Great डेन dog named Scooby-Doo, who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a श्रेणी of हरकतों और missteps.
Following the success of the original श्रेणी, hanna-barbera and इसके successor Warner Bros. Animation have produced numerous follow-up and spin-off animated श्रेणी and अनेक related works, including television specials और telefilms, a line of direct-to-video films, and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films.
कुछ संस्करण of Scooby-Doo feature different variations on the show 's supernatural theme, and include characters such as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew scrappy-doo in addition to or बजाय of कुछ of the original characters.
Scooby-Doo थी originally broadcast on CBS from 1969 to 1976, when it moved to ABC.
एबीसी aired the show until canceling it in 1986, and प्रस्तुत a spin-off featuring the वर्ण as children, a pup Named Scooby-Doo, from 1988 until 1991.
Two new scooby-doo series, कया 's नई, scooby-doo ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue ! ] ], aired as part of बच्चे WB on the WB संजाल and its successor, The CW संजाल, इससे 2002 जबतक 2008.
The सबसे recent scooby-doo series, Scooby-Doo !
Mystery incorporated, aired on Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on Cartoon Network and Boomerang in the United States and अन्य देशों.
Call of Duty is a first-person and third-person shooter computer/ video game franchise.
The series began on the pc, and later विस्तारित to consoles and handhelds.
Several spin-off खेल have भी महरूम released.
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in World युद्ध II, this includes : Call of ड्यूटी, Call of Duty 2, and Call of Duty 3.
Beginning with Modern Warfare, which is set in modern times, the series has shifted focus away इससे संसार War II.
Call of Duty 4 : Modern warfare ( released November 2007 ) was followed by Call of Duty : World at युद्ध and Call of Duty : आधुनिक Warfare 2.
ब्लैक ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War, while Modern Warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
Black ops 2 ( released November 13, 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025.
The Call of Duty games are published and owned by Activision with Aspyr Media publishing it for Apple OS X.
While the studio Infinity Ward primarily still develops them, Treyarch रै भी developed several of the शीर्षक with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other.
कुछ games have महरूम developed by Gray Matter Interactive, Spark Unlimited, Amaze entertainment, n-Space, Rebellion Developments, Ideaworks Game Studio, Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games.
the games use a variety of engines, including the id Tech 3, the treyarch ngl, and the iw 5.0.
Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by plan-b खिलौने, a card game निर्मित by Upper Deck, और a comic book mini-series published by WildStorm.
As of November 11, 2011, the Call of Duty series have sold over 100 million copies.
as of March 31, 2012 there are 40 million monthly active खिलाड़ी across सब of the कॉल of ड्यूटी titles, with 10 million Call of Duty : elite users और 2 million paying सालाना members.
Over 1.6 billion hours of online gameplay have been logged Modern warfare 3 since its 2011 release.
The एस्टेट tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether such property is transferred via a will, according to the state laws of intestacy or otherwise made as an incident of the मौत of the owner, such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust, or the payment of certain life बीमे benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries.
The estate tax is one part of the Unified Gift and Estate Tax system in the United States.
The other भाग of the system, the तोहफा tax, imposes a tax on transfers of property दौरान a person 's life ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate.
in addition to the federal government, many states भी impose an estate tax, with the state version called either an estate tax or an inheritance tax.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of the estate tax call it the `` death कर ''.
If an एसेट is left to a spouse or a Federally recognized charity, the tax usually does not apply.
in addition, up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an individual, before and/or upon their death, without incurring federal gift or estate taxes.
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी actor and संगीतकार, known as the lead singer and rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush.
following Bush 's separation in 2002, which lasted for eight years, he was the सीसे सिंगर and guitarist for Institute, and later began a solo career.
जब performing solo, गेविन plays songs from his extensive musical libraries.
Rossdale रै महरूम ranked in the Top 100 Heavy Metal Vocalists by hit Parader ( # 75 ).
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or कूच 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), better known simply as राफेल, was an Italian painter and architect of the High Renaissance.
उसके work is admired for इसके स्पष्टता of रूप और ease of composition and for its विज़ुअल achievement of the Neoplatonic ideal of इंसान grandeur.
साथ साथ Michelangelo और Leonardo da Vinci, he forms the traditional trinity of great masters of that period.
Raphael was enormously productive, कार्यशील an unusually large workshop, and despite his death at 37, a large body of his कार्य remains.
Many of his works हैं found in the Vatican Palace, where the frescoed Raphael कक्ष were the central, और the largest, work of his करियर.
The best known work is The स्कूल of Athens in the Vatican stanza della Segnatura.
After his early years in रोम much of his work थी self-designed, but for the सबसे भाग executed by the workshop from his drawings, with considerable loss of विशेषता.
He was extremely influential in उसके lifetime, though outside रोम his work was mostly known from his collaborative printmaking.
बाद his death, the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more widespread जबतक the 18th and 19th सदियां, when Raphael 's more निर्मल and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest मॉडल.
His career falls naturally into तीन phases और three styles, first described by giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria, then a period of about four years ( इससे 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic परंपराओं of Florence, followed by his पिछला hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome, working for two Popes and their close associates.
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born October 28, 1967 ) is an American actress.
वो became a Hollywood star बाद headlining the romantic comedy pretty Woman ( 1990 ), which grossed $ 464 million worldwide.
After receiving सुनहरी Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations लिये Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman, she won the Academy Award for Best Actress लिये her performance in एरिन Brockovich ( 2000 ).
उसके films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ), My Best Friend 's विवाह ( 1997 ), Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting हिल ( 1999 ), Runaway Bride ( 1999 ), Ocean 's ग्यारह ( 2001 ), समंदर 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie Wilson 's युद्ध ( 2007 ), Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ), खा Pray प्रेम ( 2010 ), and दर्पण दर्पण ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion, making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box दफ्तर receipts.
रॉबर्ट्स had become एक of the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in the world, topping The Hollywood पत्रकारों annual `` power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006.
Her fee लिये 1990 's pretty Woman थी $ 300,000 ; in 2003, she was paid an unprecedented $ 25 million for her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, Roberts 's net worth was estimated to be $ 140 million.
Roberts रै been named one of लोगों magazine 's `` 50 Most Beautiful People in the World '' eleven times, tied with Halle बेरी.
In 2011, she was named one of the `` 100 hottest Women of All-Time '' by Men 's Health.
In 2001, Ladies Home जर्नल ranked her as the 11th most शक्तिशाली woman in the United States.
चिह्नित Elliot Zuckerberg ( born May 14, 1984 ) is an American computer programmer and Internet उद्योगों.
He is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as one of five co-founders of the social networking website Facebook.
as of अप्रैल 2013, zuckerberg is the chairman और chief executive of Facebook, inc. and in 2013 his personal wealth थी estimated to be US $ 13.3 billion.
साथ with his कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड University students एडुआर्डो saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes, Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms.
The group then introduced Facebook onto other campuses nationwide and moved to Palo आल्टो, California, United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the आयु of twenty-three सालो, Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of Facebook और the क्रमांक of Facebook उपयोक्ता worldwide reached a total of one billion in 2012.
Zuckerberg थी involved in various legal disputes that were initiated by others in the group, who claimed a share of the company आधारित upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook.
Since 2010, Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest and most influential लोगों in the world by Time magazine as a part of its व्यक्ति of the Year accolade.
Zuckerberg was played by कर्ता Jesse eisenberg in the 2010 Hollywood film the Social Network in जिससे the rise of फेसबुक is portrayed.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims, including a core group of Separatists, to New इंग्लैण्ड.
Their story is one of travail and survival in a हर्ष New World environment.
framedThe
Committee of Ways and अर्थात् is the chief tax -writing कमेटी of the United States House of Representatives.
सदस्यों of the तरीके और Means Committee हैं not अनुमत to serve on any other हाउस समितियों unless they apply for a waiver from their पार्टी 's congressional नेतृत्व.
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation, tariffs and other revenue-raising measures, as well as a number of other programs including:
Social Security
Unemployment benefits
Medicare
Enforcement of child support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, a federal welfare कार्यक्रम
Foster care and adoption programs
The u.S. Constitution requires that all बिल्स regarding कराधान must originate in the हाउस of Representatives.
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this कमेटी, the कमेटी is very influential, as is its Senate counterpart, the u.S. Senate Committee on Finance.
The तरीके and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by Charlie Rangel, who had taken a leave of अनुपस्थिति as अध्यक्ष until House ethics violations were resolved.
However, his leave of absence as chairman was ruled to be a resignation.
पीट Stark resigned as acting अध्यक्ष, so Sander Levin आयोजित कि स्थिति until the start of the 112th Congress.
Dave Camp became the committee chair for the 112th Congress, after the Republicans won control of the House in the 2010 election.
The blue whale ( balaenoptera musculus ) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( पुकारा mysticeti ).
at in लंबाई and or अधिक in weight, it is the largest known एनिमल to have कभी existed.
Long and slender, the blue व्हेल 's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat lighter underneath.
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North प्रशांत, B. m. intermedia of the Southern समंदर and B. m. brevicauda ( also known as the pygmy blue whale ) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean.
B. m. इंडिका, मिला in the Indian समंदर, may be another subspecies.
as with other baleen whales, इसके diet consists almost exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill.
Blue whales were abundant in nearly सब the महासागर on Earth until the beginning of the twentieth सदी.
For over a century, they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers until protected by the international community in 1966.
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales worldwide, located in at least पाँच groups.
अधिक हाल research into the Pygmy subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest population was in the Antarctic, numbering approximately 239,000 ( दायरा 202,000 to 311,000 ).
वहीँ remain only much छोटी ( around 2,000 ) concentrations in each of the eastern North प्रशांत, Antarctic, and Indian Ocean groups.
There हैं two more groups in the North Atlantic, and at least two in the Southern Hemisphere.
The ग्लोब artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a variety of a प्रजाति of thistle cultivated as a food.
The edible matter is कलियों that रूप भीतर the flower heads before the flowers come into bloom.
the buds go away or change to a coarse, barely edible form when the flower blooms.
The uncultivated or wild variety of the species is called a cardoon.
It is a perennial plant देशी to the Mediterranean region.
The United राज्य one hundred-dollar विधेयक ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
U.S. statesman, inventor, और diplomat Benjamin Franklin is currently featured on the obverse of the विधेयक.
On the reverse of the banknote is an चित्र of Independence Hall.
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has महरूम printed चूंकि July 13, 1969, when the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were retired.
The Bureau of Engraving और Printing says the average जीवन of a $ 100 bill in circulation is 90 महीने ( 7.5 सालो ) before it is replaced due to wear and tear.
The bills हैं also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '', in reference to the use of बेंजामिन Franklin 's portrait on the denomination, or `` C-Notes '', आधारित on the Roman numeral for 100.
The bill is one of two denominations printed today that does not feature a President of the United States ; the अन्य is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander हैमिल्टन.
The time on the clock of स्वतंत्रता Hall on the reverse, according to the u.S. Bureau of Engraving and मुद्रण, shows approximately 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar bills are delivered by Federal Reserve बैंको in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on अप्रैल 21, 2010, and was to be issued to the public on फ़रवरी 11, 2011, but उत्पादन was shut down in December 2010 because as अनेक as 30 % were अनुपयोगी due to a manufacturing flaw.
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a रिक्त space on the bill when pulled आउट.
In their replacement, and continuing the high demand of this denomination, the श्रेणी 2006a was launched retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ).
on April 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve announced the नई $ 100 bill would enter circulation on October 8, 2013.
King David in robes of a Byzantine emperor.
Miniature इससे the Paris Psalter.
दाउद ( ; आईएसओ 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : daveed ) according to the Hebrew Bible, थी the second किंग of the United Kingdom of Israel, and according to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
His जीवन is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE, his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 bce, and उसके reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE.
the Books of Samuel, 1 Kings, and 1 Chronicles are the only sources of information on दाउद, although the tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of दाउद '', which most विद्वानों take as confirmation of the अस्तित्व in the mid-9th century bce of a judean royal dynasty called the House of David.
He is depicted as a righteous king, हालांकि नहीं without faults, as well as an acclaimed warrior, musician, and poet, traditionally credited for composing अनेक of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms.
दाउद is central to यहूदी, Christian, and इस्लामी doctrine and culture.
Biblical tradition maintains that a direct descendant of David होगा be the मसीहा.
In islam he is considered to be a prophet और the king of a nation.
काठमांडू ( ; ) is the capital and largest urban agglomerate of Nepal.
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu Metropolitan नगर at its कोर, and its sister cities patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
It also includes the recently recognized urban areas of Shankhapur, Karyabinayak, और champapur.
Banepa, Dhulikhel, और Panauti are satellite urban areas of Kathmandu located just outside the Kathmandu valley.
Kathmandu is also ज्ञात informally as `` KTM '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, Kathmandu metropolis अलोन has 975,453 निवासियों ; and the agglomerate has a population of अधिक than 2.5 million निवासियों.
the metropolitan city area is and has a population density of 19,250 per km2.
The city stands at an elevation of approximately in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu घाटी of central Nepal.
It is surrounded by four major mountains : shivapuri, Phulchoki, Nagarjun, and Chandragiri.
काठमांडू Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu, Lalitpur, और भक्तपुर ), has the highest population घनत्व in the country, and is home to about a बारहवीं of Nepal 's population.
During Rana and Shah eras, the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the काठमांडू Valley ; it थी what people who lived outside the valley called it.
During this period, British historians पुकारा the valley itself `` Nepal Proper ''.
Today, Kathmandu is not only the capital of the संघीय Democratic Republic of Nepal, but also the मुख्यालय of the Central Development Region of Nepal.
The सेंट्रल Region comprises three zones : Bagmati, Narayani, and Janakpur.
Kathmandu is located in the Bagmati Zone.
Kathmandu is the gateway to tourism in Nepal.
it is also the nerve center of the country 's economy.
it has the most advanced अवसंरचना of any urban area in Nepal, and इसके economy is focused on पर्यटन, जिससे accounted लिये 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter during a period of राजनैतिक unrest, but since then has improved. )
The city रै a rich history, spanning nearly 2000 years, as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley.
Religious and cultural festivities form a major part of the lives of people residing in Kathmandu.
सबसे of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism and अनेक others follow Buddhism.
There are people of other religious beliefs as well, giving Kathmandu a cosmopolitan संस्कृति.
Nepali is the most commonly spoken भाषा in the city.
Nepal Bhasa is the indigenous language spoken by the Newar people.
हिंदी is widely understood and English is understood by Kathmandu 's educated residents.
The city 's साक्षरता रेट is 98 %.
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( ललितपुर patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage, tourism industry, and अर्थव्यवस्था ; therefore UNESCO 's World विरासत साईट lists all three शहरों ' monuments और attractions together under one heading, `` Kathmandu valley- UNESCO World विरासत Site ``.
Field hockey, usually referred to बस as hockey, is a team खेल of the hockey family which is played between two teams of eleven खिलाड़ी with hockey sticks and a hard, solid plastic ball.
At the turn of the 21st century, the game is played globally, with particular popularity throughout Europe, एशिया, महासागरीय, and South अमेरिका – in addition to being the national sport of Pakistan and India.
the term `` field हॉकी '' is used primarily in Canada, the संयुक्त States, and other regions of the world where the sport of बर्फ hockey is more popular.
During play, goal keepers are the only players who are allowed to टच the ball with any part of their body ( with the exception of a player 's hand considered 'part of the स्टिक ' ), with इस only applying भीतर the shooting circle ( भी known as the d, or shooting arc, or just the circle ), जबकि field players खेल the ball with the flat side of their stick.
The team कि scores the सबसे goals by the समाप्त of the match wins.
If the score is tied at the end of the खेल, either a draw is declared or the game goes into extra time and/or a दंड shootout, depending on the प्रतियोगिता 's format.
the governing body of हॉकी is the International हॉकी Federation ( FIH ), with मेन and women होने represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games, राष्ट्रमंडल games, Hockey World Cup, Champions ट्रॉफी and Junior Hockey World कप, with अनेक countries running extensive junior, वरिष्ठ, and मास्टर्स ' club competitions.
the FIH is also responsible for organising the Hockey Rules Board and developing the rules for the sport.
A popular variant of field hockey is अंदर hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary सिद्धान्त of hockey.
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side variant, with a field which is reduced to approximately 40m × 20m.
With many of the rules remaining the same, including obstruction and feet, there are अनेक कुंजी विसंगतियाँ - Players may not उठाएँ the बॉल unless shooting on goal, players may not hit the बॉल ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off.
ethan `` Cane '' ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी CBS soap opera the Young और the Restless.
He is portrayed by Australian कर्ता Daniel Goddard, जो originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on as the World Turns but थी recommended for a role on The यंग and the Restless instead.
The role was to be portrayed as an अमरीकी, लकिन Goddard 's Australian descent influenced the character 's background.
Former head writer lynn मारी Latham introduced उसे during the episode airing on January 12, 2007 as an Australian bartender in search of his family, a debut that received a mixed response.
Latham created Cane as the बेटे of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly rhodes ) and jill Foster Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the अक्षर 's background was rewritten by मरिया Arena Bell in 2009, reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers और Genie Francis ).
Though characterized as `` रहस्यमय '', Cane is `` वफ़ादार and dedicated '', while Goddard described the character as a `` typical Australian, working-class kind of guy ''.
He was the first member of the Atkinson family to appear on the series, followed by his अभिभावक and identical twin brother.
Soon after his debut, he became a leading character, a decision praised by viewers and critics.
The character has been involved with Amber मूर ( Adrienne Frantz ), Chloe Mitchell ( एलिज़ाबेथ Hendrickson ) and सबसे notably Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ), a रोमांस that garnered significant fan attention.
in 2009, cane and Lily were शादीशुदा ; वैश्विक BC would later call Lily the love of Cane 's life.
The pair had two children, Charlie and mattie ashby.
In 2011, the actor थी fired, and cane was shot to death onscreen.
However, Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return, revealing that Cane 's identical twin brother was in fact the man जो died.
इस sacrificed his marriage to Lily, but the couple were remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012.
Goddard रै been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; canyon News said that he portrays the character honestly, and is `` always dependable, on fire and exciting ''.
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp ii ( born जून 9, 1963 ) is an American actor, फिल्मी producer, और musician.
He has won the Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild award लिये Best Actor.
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s टेलीविज़न series 21 Jump Street, becoming a टीन idol.
असंतुष्ट with that status, Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title अक्षर of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and बाद found box office success in films such as Sleepy खोखला ( 1999 ), चार्ली and the चॉकलेट Factory ( 2005 ), Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ), Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the caribbean film series ( 2003–present ).
He has collaborated with director और friend Tim Burton in eight films ; the most recent being अंधेरा Shadows ( 2012 ).
Depp has gained acclaim लिये his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco, Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing in लास वेगास, George Jung in Blow, और the बैंको robber John Dillinger in Michael Mann 's Public Enemies.
Films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the United States box office and over $ 7.6 अरब worldwide.
He has been nominated for top awards many times, winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy Globes –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy लिये Sweeney Todd : The राक्षस Barber of Fleet गली and इससे the Screen Actors Guild लिये Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the ब्लैक Pearl.
he also has garnered a sex symbol status in American cinema, being twice named as the `` Sexiest Man जिंदा `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009.
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of World रिकॉर्ड as the highest paid actor, with $ 75 million.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly ज्ञात as the web ), is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, एक can view web pages that may contain text, images, वीडियो, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his पहले hypertext प्रणालियों like ENQUIRE, British engineer, कंप्यूटर scientist and at that time employee of the CERN, Sir टिम Berners-Lee, now Director of the World चौड़ी Web Consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 for कया would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the किनारा between France and स्विट्ज़रलैंड, berners-lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to use हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to link and access information of various kinds as a वेब of nodes in which the user can browse at होगा '', and they publicly introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in December of the same साल.
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born November 11, 1986 ) is an American football quarterback for the New York Jets of the National Football लीग ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the first round of the 2009 एनएफएल Draft as the पांचवां overall selection by the Jets and the दूसरी quarterback taken overall.
he played college football at the University of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया ( USC ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined and athletic family.
In the आठवीं ग्रेड, he began to play football और learn the intricacies of the quarterback position, प्रशिक्षण with his father, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to Southern California following his successful high school career in which he led his team to a championship शीर्षक during his final season.
At USC, Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback दौरान his first three years though he rose to prominence due to his brief appearances on the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback जॉन David बूटी.
सांचेज़ also became लोकप्रिय within the community due to उसके mexican-american heritage.
Named the starter in 2008, Sanchez led USC to a 12–1 record and जीती the Rose Bowl against Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार for his performance on offense.
Although many considered उसे too inexperienced, Sanchez घोषित his intention to डालें the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was selected by the jets after they traded up with the Cleveland Browns, and थी named the starting quarterback prior to the start of the ऋतु.
Despite a subpar performance, सांचेज़ led the jets to the AFC Championship Game, a losing effort to the इंडियानापोलिस Colts, becoming the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL history to win his first playoff खेल and the second to win two playoff games.
In his second season, Sanchez continued to develop और led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive AFC Championship खेल where they narrowly lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers, 24–19.
With the win over the New England Patriots the week prior, Sanchez tied four other quarterbacks for the second most post-season road victories by a quarterback in NFL history.
In leading the jets to two consecutive conference championships, Sanchez joined quarterback Ben Roethlisberger as the only two quarterbacks in NFL history to पहुँचें the सम्मेलन चैंपियनशिप in their first दो seasons in the league.
The अगला two सीज़न would be a स्लोप for both the team and Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs.
प्रशंसक and मीडिया आलोचकों called for a struggling सांचेज़ to be benched.
He eventually थी replaced towards the end of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy.
Paul एवेरी ( April 2, 1934December 10, 2000 ) was an American पुलिस reporter, best known for his stories on the infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac, and later for उसके work on the Patricia hearst kidnapping.
A small submersible AC sump pump with a गार्डन नली connector
A sump पंप is a pump used to remove water that रै accumulated in a water collecting sump जलाशय, commonly found in the basement of homes.
the water may enter via the घेरा drains of a basement waterproofing system, funneling into the basin or because of rain or प्राकृतिक ground water, if the तहखाने is below the water तालिका level.
sump pumps are used where basement flooding happens regularly and to remedy dampness where the water table is above the न्यास of a home.
Sump pumps भेजें water away from a house to any place where it is no longer problematic, such as a municipal storm drain or a dry खूब.
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary sewer in older संस्थापना.
Once considered acceptable, this practice may now violate the plumbing code or municipal bylaws, because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system.
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect and reroute sump pump निर्वहन away from sanitary sewers.
Fines may be imposed for noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited उनके sump pump configurations and do not realize that the pump discharges to the सीवर.
if the discharge is fed to a laundry डूबना in the basement, it 's likely going to the sewer.
Usually hardwired into a home 's electrical system, sump pumps may have a बैटरी backup.
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps, eliminating the need for electricity at the expense of using potable water, potentially making उन्हें more महंगी to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal प्रॉब्लम.
चूंकि a sump जलाशय may overflow if not constantly pumped, a बैकअप system is important for cases when the प्रमुख power is आउट for prolonged periods of समय, as during a severe storm.
There are generally दो types of sump pumps — pedestal and submersible.
The pedestal पंप 's मोटर is mounted above the sump, where it is अधिक easily सर्विस, but is भी more conspicuous.
The pump impeller is चलित by a long, लंबवत extension shaft and the impeller is in a scroll housing in the base of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely mounted inside the sump, और is specially sealed to prevent electrical short circuits.
sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial and commercial applications to control water table -related समस्याएं in surface soil.
an आर्टेसियन aquifer or periodic high water table situation can cause the ground to become unstable due to जल saturation.
as long as the पंप कृत्यों, the surface soil will remain stable.
ये sumps are typically ten feet in depth or more ; lined with corrugated metal pipe that contains perforations or drain holes throughout.
They may include electronic control systems with visual and audible alarms and are usually covered to prevent debris and animals from falling in.
Bleeding Kansas, Bloody कान्सास or the किनारा युद्ध, थी a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and pro-slavery `` Border Ruffian `` elements, that took प्लेस in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861.
At the heart of the conflict was the question of whether Kansas होता enter the Union as a फ़्री state or slave state.
As such, Bleeding Kansas was a प्रॉक्सी war between Northerners and Southerners over the issue of गुलामी in the United States.
The पद `` bleeding कान्सास '' was coined by Horace Greeley of the New York Tribune ; the events it encompasses directly presaged the अमरीकी Civil युद्ध.
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery forces.
The events later known as Bleeding कान्सास were set into motion by the Kansas–Nebraska अधिनियम of 1854, which nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the अवधारणा of popular प्रभुता.
an ostensibly democratic idea, लोकप्रिय sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it होता be a free or slave state ; however, this resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists from दोनो पहलू.
At one point, Kansas had two separate governments, each with its अपना constitution, although only one was federally recognized.
On January 29, 1861, Kansas was admitted to the Union as a free state, less than three months before the Battle of Fort Sumter जिससे began the Civil War.
Benzene is an organic रासायनिक यौगिक with the molecular formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6.
Its molecule is composed of 6 कार्बन atoms joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen atom संलग्न to प्रत्येक carbon atom.
Because its molecules contain तभी carbon and hydrogen atoms, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil, and is एक of the most basic petrochemicals.
बेंजीन is an aromatic hydrocarbon और the second [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a cyclic हाइड्रोकार्बन साथ a निरन्तर pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated ph –h. Benzene is a colorless and अत्यधिक flammable liquid with a sweet smell.
It is mainly used as a precursor to heavy रसायन, such as ethylbenzene and cumene, which are produced on a billion kilogram स्केल.
Because it has a ऊँची octane number, it is an महत्वपूर्ण component of gasoline, composing a few प्रतिशत of its mass.
Most non-industrial applications have been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
giovanni virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an Italian astronomer and science historian.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's Wii game console to run software that has नहीं been authorized by Nintendo.
it achieves इस by defeating the Wii 's नक़ल protection and code signing measures.
in अधिक general terms, Wii Homebrew refers to the use of the Wii 's हार्डवेयर, accessories and software for उद्देश्य बाहर those intended by the manufacturer.
असली efforts focused on using the वी रिमोट as a इंगित device on other operating systems, or कार्यशील web-based games in the built-in वेब browser.
subsequent developments in games कारनामे, ऐसे as the `` गोधूलि hack ``, `` Bannerbomb '' and its later incarnation `` LetterBomb '', `` Smash Stack '', `` Indiana Pwns '', `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '', `` bathaxx '', और `` वापसी of the Jodi '', बना installing the `` Homebrew चैनल `` संभावित.
हैडली ( right ) discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis with बुश and Rice.
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13, 1947 ) was the 21st u.S. Assistant to the President for National सुरक्षा Affairs ( commonly referred as नेशनल सुरक्षा सलाहकार ), serving अंतर्गत President George W. बुश.
Take identical growing पौधे and give fertilizer to half of them.
If there are differences between the निषेचित plant group and the unfertilized `` control '' group, ये differences may be due to the fertilizer.
a scientific कंट्रोल is an experiment or observation designed to minimize the प्रभाव of variables अन्य than the single independent variable.
इस increases the reliability of the परिणाम, often through a comparison between control measurements और the other measurements.
Scientific नियंत्रण are a part of the scientific method.
For example, दौरान drug परीक्षण, scientists होगा कोशिश to control two groups to keep them as identical as possible, then allow one समूह to कोशिश the drug.
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to only half the plants in a garden : the plants that receive no उर्वरक are the control समूह, because they establish the बेसलाइन level of growth that the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against.
Without a control group, the experiment can not determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow more than they would have if अनुपचारित.
ideally, all variables in an experiment होगा be controlled ( accounted for by the कंट्रोल माप ) और none होगा be uncontrolled.
in ऐसे an experiment, if all the नियंत्रण work as expected, it is possible to conclude कि the experiment is working as intended and that the results of the प्रयोग are due to the प्रभाव of the variable होने tested.
That is, scientific controls allow an अन्वेषक to make a claim like `` Two परिस्थितियों were identical until factor X occurred.
चूंकि factor X is the only difference between the दो situations, the new outcome was caused by factor x. ''
< < Chemical elements data सन्दर्भ
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) was the दूसरी president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice president of the संयुक्त States.
An American Founding Father, he was a statesman, diplomat, and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain.
Well educated, he was an Enlightenment राजनैतिक theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to उसके wife and key adviser अबीगैल as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of the American Revolution.
A lawyer and public figure in Boston, as a delegate from Massachusetts to the Continental Congress, he played a leading भूमिका in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, and was its primary advocate in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace सन्धि with ग्रेट Britain, और थी responsible for obtaining vital सरकारी loans इससे Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely लिखा the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which together with his earlier Thoughts on सरकारी, influenced American राजनैतिक thought.
One of his महानतम भूमिकाएँ was as a न्यायधीश of character : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, और 25 years बाद nominated John Marshall to be मुख्य Justice of the संयुक्त States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his अपना चुनाव in 1796 as the दूसरी president.
During उसके एक term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the Jeffersonian Republicans, as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist पार्टी led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the विवादास्पद Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the फौज and navy especially in the face of an undeclared नवल war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of उसके presidency was his शांतिपूर्ण resolution of the conflict in the face of हैमिल्टन 's opposition.
In 1800, Adams थी defeated for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts.
He बाद resumed his friendship with Jefferson.
He and his बीवी, Abigail Adams, founded an accomplished family line of politicians, diplomats, और historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
एडम्स was the father of जॉन Quincy Adams, the sixth President of the United राज्य.
His उपलब्धियाँ have प्राप्त वृहद recognition in modern times, हालांकि his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other संस्थापकों.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the building कि eventually became known as the White House.
A Watt steam इंजन.
the steam engine, fuelled primarily by कोयले, propelled the Industrial Revolution in Great Britain and the world.
The Industrial Revolution थी the transition to new manufacturing प्रक्रियाओं that occurred in the काल from परिचय 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840.
This transition included going from हाथ उत्पादन methods to machines, new रासायनिक manufacturing और आयरन production processes, improved efficiency of जल power, the increasing use of steam शक्ति and development of machine tools.
The परिवर्तन also included the change from लकडी and other bio-fuels to कोयले.
The Industrial revolution began in Britain and within a few decades spread to Western Europe and the United States.
The औद्योगिक Revolution marks a major turning point in history ; almost प्रत्येक पहलू of रोज़ life was influenced in कुछ way.
Most notably, average income and population began to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented sustained growth.
in the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas, Jr., `` लिये the first time in इतिहास, the living standards of the masses of ordinary people have begun to undergo sustained विकास... Nothing remotely like this आर्थिक behavior is mentioned by the classical economists, भी as a theoretical possibility. ''
William Bell Scott Iron and कोयले, 1855-60
The period of time covered by the Industrial Revolution varies with different historians.
Eric Hobsbawm आयोजित that it 'broke आउट ' in Britain in the 1780s and was not fully felt until the 1830s or 1840s, while T. S. Ashton held कि it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
कुछ 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued that the process of economic and social change took place gradually and the term revolution is a misnomer.
This is still a subject of debate among historians.
जीडीपी प्रति capita was broadly stable पहले the Industrial Revolution and the emergence of the modern capitalist economy.
The Industrial क्रान्ति began an era of per-capita economic growth in capitalist economies.
Economic historians are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important इवेंट in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants.
The पहला Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870, जब technological and आर्थिक progress gained आवेग with the increasing adoption of steam-powered boats, जहाजों and railways, the large scale manufacture of machine tools और the increasing उपयोग of steam संचालित कारखानों.
जूलियट AnnMarie Huddy ( born September 27, 1969 ), is an American टेलीविज़न news reporter, currently appearing on Fox News Channel.
This list ranks U.S. cities by जमीन area ( not including bodies of water ).
Total क्षेत्रों ( including water ) are also दिए, but नोट that, when ranked by total area, a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San Francisco is an चरम उदाहरण ; जल makes up nearly 80 % of its total area of 232 square miles ( 601 km2 ).
नोट भी that in many मामले a city may be geographically large primarily because its municipal government has merged with the सरकारी of the surrounding county.
in some cases the काउंटी no longer exists, while in others the arrangement has formed a Consolidated city–county ( or city- बरो in Alaska, or city- मोहल्ला in Louisiana ).
These are shown in bold in the list below ( but not all examples may be indicated ).
** ये are independent cities, अर्थ they are not a part of any county.
The large intestine ( or bowel, colon ) is the last part of the digestive system in vertebrate animals.
Its फलन is to absorb water इससे the बाकी indigestible food matter, और then to pass useless waste सामग्री from the देह.
This article is primarily about the human gut, though the information about its processes are directly लागू to most mammals.
The large intestine consists of the cecum, rectum and anal कनाल.
It starts in the right iliac region of the pelvis, just at or below the right waist, जहाँ it is joined to the bottom end of the छोटी intestine.
From here it continues up the abdomen, then across the width of the abdominal cavity, and then it turns down, continuing to its endpoint at the anus.
the विशाल intestine is about long, जिससे is about one-fifth of the पूरे length of the intestinal canal.
In Terminologia Anatomica the विशाल आंत includes the cecum, कोलन, rectum, and anal कनाल.
However, some sources exclude the anal canal.
The Green Bay Packers are an American फ़ुटबॉल team based in ग्रीन Bay, विस्कॉन्सिन.
They are members of the North प्रभाग of the National फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( एनएफएल ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the NFL, having been organized and playing in 1919.
The Packers are the तभी non-profit, community-owned major league पेशेवर खेल team in the United States.
The पैकर्स are the last vestige of `` small कस्बा teams '' that यहूद once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the टोली plays ) और George Whitney Calhoun, the ग्रीन Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green खाड़ी dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the पैकर्स competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional फ़ुटबॉल Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
Although ग्रीन Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan आधार and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the टोली also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any अन्य team in the NFL ), सहित नौ NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super Bowl II ), 1997 ( सुपर Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( सुपर Bowl xlv ).
the Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with उनके NFC उत्तर ( formerly the NFC Central ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the Chicago Bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The bears-packers फंसने is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, डेटिंग वापस to 1921.
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The घाटी '' ) is an urbanized valley स्तिथ in the Los Angeles metropolitan area of दक्षिणी California, United States, पारिभाषित by the mountains of the Transverse सीमाएँ circling it.
घर to 1.76 million लोगों, it lies north of the larger and अधिक populous लॉस Angeles Basin.
Nearly two तिहाई of the Valley 's land area is part of the City of Los Angeles.
The other incorporated cities in the valley are Glendale, Burbank, San Fernando, Hidden Hills and Calabasas.
San फर्नांडो Valley, Los Angeles
The exterior of the वर्तमान संसार of Coca-Cola at pemberton Place.
The World of Coca-Cola, is a permanent exhibition featuring the history of The coca-cola कम्पनी.
Its well-known advertising as खूब as a मेजबान of entertainment areas and आकर्षण, and is located in Atlanta, Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of जॉन Pemberton, the inventor of Coca-Cola ).
as part of जॉर्जिया 's संग्रहालय.
the जटिल located across Baker गली from Centennial Olympic Park that is घर to the Georgia एक्वेरियम and future Center for Civil & Human Rights.
It opened to the public on May 24, 2007, relocating from and replacing the original exhibit.
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction novel and the second book of the Uglies Trilogy written by Scott westerfeld.
it is नियत in a भविष्य dystopian संसार in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by चरम कॉस्मेटिक सर्जरी upon reaching आयु 16.
It tells the story of teenager Tally Youngblood who rebels against society 's enforced conformity.
सुसान Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26, 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to life in थाना for murdering her children.
born in Union, South Carolina, and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union, she was convicted on July 22, 1995 for murdering her दो sons, 3-year-old Michael डेनियल Smith, born अक्तूबर 10, 1991, and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler स्मिथ, born August 5, 1993.
The case gained worldwide attention shortly after it developed, due to her claiming that a black man stole her car and kidnapped her बेटे.
She बाद claimed that वो suffered from mental health मुद्दे that impaired her judgment.
According to the South Carolina Department of corrections, Smith होगा be eligible for parole on November 4, 2024, after serving a न्यूनतम of thirty years.
She is incarcerated at दक्षिण Carolina 's Leath Correctional Institution, निकट greenwood.
माउंट McKinley ( भी known as Denali taken from the Inuit koyukon Athabaskan language अर्थ `` The Great One '' ) is the उच्चतम mountain peak in the United राज्य and in North America with a summit elevation of above sea स्तर.
At some, the base to peak वृद्धि is considered the largest of any mountain situated entirely above sea level.
Measured by topographic prominence, it is the third most prominent शिखर after Mount Everest and Aconcagua.
Located in the अलास्का Range in the interior of us राज्य of Alaska, it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve.
The first European to document sighting the mountain was George Vancouver in 1794.
In 1903, जेम्स Wickersham recorded the first attempt at चढ़ाई McKinley which was unsuccessful.
In 1906, Frederick Cook claimed the first ascent which was later proven to be गलत.
The पहला verifiable ascent to mckinley 's summit was achieved on June 7, 1913 by climbers Hudson Stuck, Harry Karstens, Walter Harper, and Robert टैटम.
In 1951, Bradford washburn pioneered the West buttress route considered to be the safest and easiest route and therefore the सबसे popular currently in use.
the Honda S600 is an automobile manufactured by Honda.
it was launched in कूच 1964.
उपलब्धियाँ as a roadster – bearing strong resemblance to the होंडा s500 – and as a fastback coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the s600 was the पहला होंडा available in two trim levels.
During इसके उत्पादन run up to 1966, the model styling would remain pretty much the same, with the most notable changes coming to the front grille, bumper, and headlights.
Powered by a dohc, water-cooled, four-cylinder inline engine with four carburetors, the इंजन capacity was increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc.
The engine produced at 8,500 rpm and had a top speed of.
साथ the convertible weighing in at mere, the extra sheet मेटल of the कूप only added to the overall weight.
बर्खास्तगी was स्वतंत्र with sealed roller कड़ी drive to each पश्च wheel.
The S600 was the first mass marketed Honda car.
First offered only in right-hand drive, it जल्द became available in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets.
There were a few pre-production S500s manufactured in left hand drive, two or three even being shown in some early sales brochures.
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a खास, upgraded package called the SM600 which included, among other वस्तुएं, special paint colors, exclusive badging, a standard radio and speaker, a special antenna in the passenger side sun visor, standard reversing lights, a मानक cigarette हल्का, a standard heater, better cushioned seats, and a detachable seat track for जल्दी removal of the passenger सीट.
Honda निर्मित 3,912 roadsters in 1964, with production climbing to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965.
उत्पादन dropped off in 1966 ( as they यहूद shifting to the S800 ) with तभी 111 roadsters and 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles और 1,800 coupes for the 3 year span.
Everybody Hates Chris is an अमरीकी television period sitcom that depicts the teenage अनुभवों of comedian Chris Rock ( जो is भी the narrator ) while growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, नई York.
The show is set between 1983 and 1987 ; however, Rock खुद was a teenager between 1978 and 1983.
Rock grew up with a boy named Kenny Montero, whom he has often referred to as the inspiration for a lot of the एपीसोड.
In many interviews, Rock has described Kenny as the reason he got into comedy in the पहला place.
The दिखाएँ 's title parodies the CBS sitcom Everybody loves Raymond.
Rock stated : `` everybody Loves Raymond लकिन Everybody hates Chris ! ``.
The show 's सीसे actors are Tyler James Williams, टेरी Crews, Tichina Arnold, Tequan Richmond, Imani Hakim, and Vincent Martella.
In Fall 2008, the the CW moved everybody Hates Chris and the Game to the Friday night death slot.
The fourth season of the series premiered Friday, October 3, 2008, at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central.
On May 21, 2009, The CW announced that it had cancelled everybody Hates Chris.
Prior to this, executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4 matched up with his अपना past—dropping out of ऊँची school to become a comedian—and that it थी time to end the show.
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the two pleural layers, the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs.
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the expansion of the फेफड़े during ventilation.
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old अंग्रेज़ी heroic epic poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines, set in Scandinavia, commonly cited as एक of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature.
It survives in a single manuscript known as the Nowell Codex.
Its composition by an anonymous Anglo-Saxon poet is dated between the 8th and the जल्दी 11th century.
In 1731, the manuscript was badly damaged by a आग कि swept through a building housing a collection of Medieval manuscripts assembled by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton.
the poem fell into obscurity लिये decades, and its existence किया not become widely known again जबतक it was मुद्रित in 1815 in an edition prepared by the Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson thorkelin.
In the poem, Beowulf, a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia, comes to the help of Hroðgar, the king of the Danes, whose mead hall ( in Heorot ) has महरूम under attack by a monster known as Grendel.
After बियोवुल्फ़ जानबूझ उसे, Grendel 's माँ attacks the hall and is then also defeated.
Victorious, Beowulf goes home to geatland in Sweden और बाद becomes king of the Geats.
बाद a काल of fifty years has passed, Beowulf defeats a dragon, लकिन is fatally wounded in the बैटल.
After उसके death, his attendants bury him in a tumulus, a burial mound, in geatland.
Shem Ham and Japheth by James Tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም, Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) was एक of the sons of Noah in the यहूदी Bible as well as in Islamic literature.
He is सबसे popularly regarded as the ज्येष्ठ son, though some परंपराओं regard him as the second son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to relative ages of Shem and his brother Japheth, but with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations.
The श्लोक is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also, the पिता of all the children of eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born. ``.
However, the New American Standard Bible gives, `` भी to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, and the older brother of Japheth, children यहूद born. ''
उत्पत्ति 11:10 records that Shem was स्टिल 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad, ( but nearly 101 - see Chronology note, ) two years after the flood, बनाना him barely 99 at the time the flood began ; and that he lived for another 500 years after this, making his आयु at मौत 600 सालो.
The children of Shem were ईलम, Asshur, arphaxad, Lud, and Aram, in जोड to daughters.
अब्राहम, the patriarch of the Hebrews and Arabs, was one of the descendants of Arphaxad.
इस्लामी literature describes Shem as one of the believing sons of नूह.
Some sources even पहचानो Shem as a prophet in his own right और that he was the next prophet after his पिता.
In one मुस्लिम legend, Shem was एक of the people that God made Jesus resurrect as a sign to the Children of Israel.
The 1st सदी historian Flavius Josephus, among many others, recounted the tradition that these five sons were the progenitors of the nations of Elam, Assyria, Chaldea, लीडिया, and सीरियाई, respectively.
सामीती is still a commonly used term लिये the सामीती भाषाएं, as a subset of the Afro-Asiatic languages, denoting the common भाषाई heritage of Arabic, aramaic, Akkadian, Ethiopic, Hebrew and Phoenician languages.
according to some Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers Rabbah 4:8. ), shem is believed to have been Melchizedek, King of Salem whom Abraham is recorded to have met after the battle of the four kings.
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources that describe him, Shem is also credited with हत्या Nimrod, son of Cush.
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4.
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus, c. 100 AD ; Japheth 's sons shown in red, Ham 's sons in ब्लू, Shem 's बेटे in green.
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group Inc. is a privately held company that is primarily an internet domain रजिस्ट्रार and web होस्टिंग company.
Go पापा Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006, but later canceled it, due to `` market uncertainties ''.
In जोड to domain registration and hosting go Daddy also sells e-business related software और services.
On जून 24, 2011, the Wall गली Journal reported कि private-equity firms KKR and Silver Lake साझेदार, साथ with a तीसरा investor, were nearing a deal to buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR, Silver Lake साझेदार and Technology Crossover Ventures था बंद the deal.
Although the purchase price was not officially घोषित it थी reported to be $ 2.25 billion, for 65 % of the company.
, Bob Parsons had ceded the सीईओ role of Go Daddy to Warren Adelman, who था been with the कम्पनी for about 10 years.
The Andorran coat of arms at the Andorran parliament.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of Andorra ( ), भी called the principality of the Valleys of अंडोरा, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe, located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France.
It is the sixth smallest nation in Europe, having an क्षेत्रफल of and an estimated population of 85,000 in 2012.
Its capital, अंडोरा la वेला, is the highest capital city in Europe, at an elevation of above sea level.
The आधिकारिक language is Catalan, although Spanish, Portuguese, and French are भी commonly spoken.
Created under a charter in 988, the present Principality थी formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a monarchy headed by two co-princes – the बिशप of urgell and the President of France.
Andorra is a prosperous country मुख्यतः because of its tourism industry, which services an estimated 10.2 million visitors annually, and also because of इसके status as a tax haven.
It is not a member of the European Union, but the euro is the de facto currency.
The लोगों of Andorra have the 4th highest human जीवन expectancy in the world — 82 years at birth.
The जार्ज Washington University ( gw, GWU, or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, Bachelor degrees, Masters degrees, and PhDs across several dozen disciplines.
The विश्वविद्यालयों थी chartered by an Act of Congress on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born अक्तूबर 21, 1980 ) is an American socialite, television personality and occasional actress.
In 2007, she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a अदालत awarding her $ 5 million ; later in that वही year, she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
वास्तविकता television series keeping Up with the Kardashians, and इसके subsequent spin-offs, including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and कोर्टनी and Kim Take Miami.
In 2010, Kardashian was the highest-earning reality star, with estimated earnings of $ 6 million.
With sisters कोर्टनी and Khloé, Kardashian co-owns the fashion बुटीक chain D-A-S-H.
She रै been involved in the उत्पादन of several lines of clothing and fragrances.
In अगस्त 2011, Kardashian married बास्केट player Kris Humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
That October, Kardashian filed for divorce following 72 दिनों of marriage.
The move garnered significant backlash from the media, who labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
After 536 days, Kardashian and Humphries reached an undisclosed settlement at the लॉस एंजिल्स श्रेष्ठ Court, finalizing the divorce in April 2013.
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways और highways, 3D computer-generated image
Fly-around tour of the island
oahu ( ) or oahu, ज्ञात as `` The Gathering प्लेस '', is the third largest of the Hawaiian Islands and the सबसे populous of the islands in the U.S. state of हवाई.
The state पूंजी, Honolulu, is on Oahu 's southeast coast.
Including छोटी close-in offshore islands such as घाट द्वीप and the islands in Kaneohe खाड़ी and off the पूर्वी ( windward ) coast, it has a total land area of, making it the 20th largest island in the United States.
In the greatest आयाम, इस volcanic island is long और across.
The length of the shoreline is.
The island is the result of two separate shield volcanoes : waianae and Koolau, with a broad `` valley '' or saddle ( the सेंट्रल Oahu Plain ) between them.
The highest point is Mt. ka'ala in the Waianae Range, rising to above sea level.
The आधार currency of the संयुक्त States is the U.S. डालर, and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
At एक time, however, U.S. currency included five larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 यहूद मुद्रित for general use, and a $ 100,000 note was printed for certain internal transactions.
British Honduras was a British colony in Central America.
in 1981, the colony gained full independence, और is now the independent nation of बेलीज़.
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th century, the territory on the east coast of सेंट्रल America, south of Mexico, became a British crown colony in 1862.
In 1964, it became a self-governing उपनिवेश.
Belize became fully independent from the United किंगडम in 1981.
बेलीज़ was the last continental possession of the संयुक्त Kingdom in the Americas.
Spelt, भी known as dinkel गेहूं, or hulled गेहूं, is an प्राचीन प्रजाति of wheat इससे the पांचवां millennium bc.
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze आयु to medieval times ; it now survives as a relict crop in सेंट्रल Europe and northern Spain and has मिला a new मार्केट as a health खाना.
spelt is sometimes considered a subspecies of the closely related species common wheat ( T. aestivum ), in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
It is a hexaploid wheat, जिससे means it रै six sets of chromosomes.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective created by लेखक and physician Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities border on the fantastic, Holmes is प्रसिद्ध for his astute logical reasoning, his ability to adopt लगभग any भेस, and उसके use of forensic science skills to solve मुश्किल मामले.
holmes, who first appeared in publication in 1887, was featured in four novels and 56 छोटी stories.
The first अनोखा, A Study in Scarlet, appeared in Beeton 's Christmas Annual in 1887 और the second, The Sign of the Four, in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890.
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of छोटी stories in The Strand Magazine, beginning with A Scandal in Bohemia in 1891 ; further श्रेणी of short stories और two novels प्रकाशित in serial form appeared between then और 1927.
The stories cover a period from around 1880 up to 1914.
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's dost and biographer, Dr. John H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes खुद ( `` the Blanched Soldier `` और `` the Lion 's Mane `` ) और two अन्य हैं written in the third व्यक्ति ( `` The Mazarin स्टोन `` and `` His पिछला Bow `` ).
In two stories ( `` the Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria Scott `` ), Holmes tells Watson the main story from his memories, while Watson becomes the narrator of the फ़्रेम story.
The first and चौथी novels, A Study in स्कारलेट and the Valley of Fear, each include a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events अनजान to either Holmes or Watson.
the United राज्य हाउस of Representatives is एक of the two घरों of the संयुक्त राज्य Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is frequently referred to as the House.
The other house is the सीनेट.
The composition and powers of the House are established in Article एक of the United राज्य Constitution.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the हाउस and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each कक्ष ).
The House रै several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue बिल्स, to impeach officials, and to elect the u.S. President in case there is no majority in the चुनावी College.
प्रत्येक U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at least one representative.
The most populous state, California, currently has 53 representatives.
The कुल number of voting representatives is fixed by law at 435.
Each representative serves for a two-year term.
The Speaker of the संयुक्त राज्य House of Representatives, who presides over the कक्ष, is elected by the members of the House, and is therefore traditionally the नेता of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever पार्टी has more voting सदस्यों.
The House meets in the south wing of the United States Capitol.
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft Foods लिये a number of जिलेटिन desserts, सहित fruit gels, puddings और no-bake cream pies.
The brand 's popularity has led to it being used as a generic term for gelatin dessert आरपार the U.S. and Canada.
Kennywood is an amusement park located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Pittsburgh.
The park first opened in 1898 as a `` ट्राली park '' आकर्षण at the समाप्त of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway.
The park थी खरीदा in 1906 by F. W. henninger and Andrew McSwigan और thus began the kennywood Entertainment company that has remained a closely held परिवार business for over 100 years.
This traditional amusement park still has structures and यात्राएँ dating back to its opening और the early 1900s.
साथ with Rye Playland Park, it is one of only दो amusement parks listed in the नेशनल Register of ऐतिहासिक स्थान.
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood Entertainment Company, जिससे until दिसम्बर 2007 थी a closely held family business owned by the Henninger और McSwigan families.
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based Palace Entertainment, a subsidiary of parques Reunidos, an अंतरराष्ट्रीय amusement park company आधारित in मैड्रिड, Spain.
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover Investments, an investment fund based in the UK.
A Social सुरक्षा कार्ड issued by the रेलरोड Retirement Board in 1943 to a now deceased person.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, a सोशल सुरक्षा number ( ssn ) is a nine-digit क्रमांक issued to U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and अस्थाई ( working ) residents under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act, codified as.
the number is issued to an individual by the सोशल Security Administration, an independent agency of the संयुक्त States सरकारी.
Its primary purpose is to track individuals for सोशल Security purposes.
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying on Form SS-5, `` Application for A Social Security Number Card ''.
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of आर्ट and डिज़ाइन, especially visual art और music, where the work is set out to expose the essence or identity of a subject through eliminating all non-essential फ़ॉर्म, features or concepts.
minimalism is any design or स्टाइल in which the simplest and fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect.
as a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments in post–World War ii Western Art, most strongly with American visual कला in the 1960s and early 1970s.
Prominent कलाकारों associated with this गति शामिल Donald Judd, John mccracken, Agnes Martin, Dan Flavin, रॉबर्ट Morris, Anne Truitt, and Frank Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism, and is often interpreted as a reaction against अमूर्त expressionism and a bridge to Postminimal art practices.
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in म्यूज़िक which सुविधाएँ repetition and iteration, as in the रचनाएं of La Monte यंग, Terry Riley, Steve Reich, Philip Glass, and John Adams.
अल्पतम compositions are sometimes ज्ञात as systems music.
the term `` अल्पतम '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything that is spare or stripped to its essentials.
It रै भी been used to describe the plays and novels of सैमुएल Beckett, the films of Robert Bresson, the stories of Raymond Carver, और भी the ऑटोमोबाइल डिजाइन of Colin Chapman.
The word was पहला प्रयुक्त in English in the early 20th सदी to describe the Mensheviks.
In chemistry and physics, Dalton 's law ( also called Dalton 's law of partial pressures ) states that the total pressure exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases.
This empirical law थी observed by John डाल्टन in 1801 and is सम्बन्धित to the ideal gas कानून.
Mathematically, the दबाव of a मिश्रण of gases can be पारिभाषित as the summation
or
where represent the partial pressure of each component.
It is assumed that the gases do not react with each other
where is the mole भिन्न of the i-th घटक in the total mixture of n components.
The relationship below provides a way to determine the volume based विशेषज्ञता of any individual gaseous component
where is the concentration of the i-th component expressed in ppm.
Dalton 's law is not exactly followed by real gases.
Those deviations are considerably large at high pressures.
In such conditions, the volume occupied by the molecules can become significant compared to the फ़्री space between them.
In particular, the short average distances between molecules raises the intensity of intermolecular forces between गैस molecules enough to substantially change the pressure exerted by them.
Neither of those effects are considered by the ideal gas model.
This is a list of the largest United राज्य colleges and universities by नामांकन लिये colleges और universities in the United States.
What this सूची includes:
Colleges and universities भीतर the United States
University systems if the system is चलाएं under a single administration
Enrollment is the योग of the headcount of undergraduate and ग्रैजुएट विद्यार्थी
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated Post-secondary Education प्रणाली within the U.S. Department of Education.
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the number of unique students who attended the university during the साल.
What इस list does not include:
कोई indication of how many of the enrolled विद्यार्थी are full or part time ( e.g., कुछ universities may have a high enrollment, but have most students enrolled in only a single class )
For other सूचियाँ that माप university enrollment, see the See Also खण्ड below.
`` Right Round '' is a song performed by American rapper Flo Rida, released as the सीसे single from his दूसरी studio album, R.O.O.T.S. ( 2009 ).
The song features guest vocals from Kesha.
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 और was digitally released on 10 February by Poe लड़के Entertainment and Atlantic Records.
The song lyrically speaks of Flo rida 's जाल बॉल referee enthusiasm, while adapting the कोरस of the 1984 मुर्दे or Alive song `` You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook.
According to one of the song 's writers, the chorus refers to oral sex.
kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, but in the United States, during the run atop the चार्ट, Kesha was uncredited.
The song received mostly negative reviews from critics, who claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic.
however, it was a commercial success, reaching the top ten of the चार्ट in उन्नीस countries worldwide.
In the संयुक्त States, it became Flo Rida 's दूसरी number-one single and broke the record for first-week sales when it was released to digital retailers.
The single 's accompanying music video was निर्देशित by Malcolm Jones and मनोनीत for an MTV Video म्यूज़िक Award.
the song has been used in several movies, such as The Hangover, The Ugly Truth and the Telugu movie pilla Zamindar.
In the movie Pitch Perfect, the song is performed by the a cappella group the treblemakers.
The मुख्य Justice of the United States is the head of the United States federal court प्रणाली ( the judicial branch of the federal सरकारी of the संयुक्त States ) और the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are the Associate justices of the परम् Court of the United States.
इससे 1789 until 1866, the office थी ज्ञात as the Chief Justice of the परम् Court.
The मुख्य Justice is the highest judicial अधिकारी in the country, and acts as a chief administrative officer for the federal courts and as head of the न्यायिक Conference of the संयुक्त States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
The मुख्य Justice also serves as a spokesperson for the judicial branch.
The मुख्य Justice लीड the business of the Supreme Court.
He presides over oral arguments before the court.
When the अदालत renders an opinion, the Chief Justice—when in the majority—decides जो writes the court 's opinion.
The Chief Justice also रै significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings.
In the case of an impeachment of a President of the United States, which has occurred twice, the Chief इंसाफ presides over the trial in the Senate.
In modern tradition, the Chief Justice has the ceremonial duty of administering the oath of दफ्तर of the President of the United States.
The पहला Chief Justice was John Jay.
the 17th and current Chief Justice is John G. Roberts, Jr.
Caribou निकट Prudhoe खाड़ी, 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a large oil field on Alaska 's North Slope.
It is the largest आयल फ़ील्ड in both the संयुक्त States और in North America, covering and originally containing approximately of oil.
The राशि of recoverable oil in the field is more than double कि of the next largest field in the United राज्य, the East Texas oil field.
The field is operated by BP ; साझेदार हैं ExxonMobil and conocophillips Alaska.
Labor unions are legally recognized as representatives of workers in अनेक industries in the United States.
उनके activity today centers on सामूहिक bargaining over wages, benefits, and working conditions for their membership, and on representing their members in disputes with management over violations of अनुबंध provisions.
Larger संघ also typically engage in lobbying activities and electioneering at the state and federal level.
Most unions in America are aligned with one of two larger umbrella organizations : the AFL-CIO created in 1955, and the Change to Win Federation which split from the afl-cio in 2005.
Both एडवोकेट policies and legislation on behalf of मजदूर in the United States and कनाडा, and take an active role in politics.
The AFL-CIO is especially concerned with global trade issues.
In 2010, the percentage of workers belonging to a union in the United राज्य ( or total labor union `` density '' ) थी 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in जर्मनी, 27.5 % in Canada, and 70 % in फिनलैंड.
Union membership in the private sector has fallen under 7 % — levels not seen since 1932.
Unions allege that employer-incited opposition has contributed to this मनाही in membership.
the सबसे prominent unions are among पब्लिक sector employees such as teachers और पुलिस.
Members of unions are disproportionately older, male and residents of the Northeast, the Midwest, and California.
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in America बाद controlling for individual, job, and labor market characteristics.
Although much छोटी compared to their peak membership in the 1950s, अमरीकी unions remain a prominent political फ़ैक्टर, both through mobilization of their own memberships और through coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around issues ऐसे as अप्रवासी rights, trade policy, health परवाह, and living wage अभियान.
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs, unions are currently advocating नई `` card check `` federal legislation that would require employers to bargain with a संघ if more than 50 % of workers signed forms, or `` ताश, '' stating they wish to be represented by that संघ.
the current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 days for a federally supervised secret-ballot employee referendum on the subject.
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted कि, `` Strong unions have helped to reduce inequality, whereas weaker unions have made it easier for CEOs, sometimes working with market forces कि they have helped shape, to increase it. ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in the United States has been संबद्ध with a pronounced rise in आय and माल inequality.
A Christian Lacroix fashion boutique
A boutique is a small shopping आउटलेट, especially one कि specializes in elite and फैशनेबल items ऐसे as कपडे and jewelry.
The शब्द is फ्रेंच for `` shop '', via Latin from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The पद entered into everyday English उपयोग in the late 1960s जब, for a brief period, London was the centre of the fashion trade.
Carnaby Street और the Kings सड़क were the focus of much media ध्यान as home to the most fashionable boutiques of the era.
Now the East of London has महरूम regenerated और more Boutiques pop up in fashionable areas, such as Tower Bridge Road.
It can भी refer to a specialised firm such as a boutique investment bank or boutique law firm.
The शब्द is often प्रयुक्त to describe a property in the independent section of the होटल market ( such as The Rockwell in London ) in order to distinguish themselves from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ).
in ऐसे cases the establishments aim to convey the idea that the आपरेशन is elite and highly specialised.
in the strictest भाव of the word, boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but अधिक generally speaking, some chains can be referred to as boutiques if they specialize in particular शैलियाँ.
Recently, the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or produced in intentionally small numbers at very high prices.
इस may be referred to as बुटीक manufacturing.
For example, before the रिलीज of the Wii, a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` boutique video-game कम्पनी '', producing games लिये niche audiences, rather than trying to compete directly साथ Microsoft and Sony.
In the traditional luxury- देखें industry scalfaro International is considered as the precursor in manufacturing and बिक्री of bespoke watches.
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique manufacturing site, which allows producing small series or even अद्वितीय timepieces.
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and अन्य truly one-of-a-kind items, others simply produce t-shirts, stickers, and other fashion accessories in artificially small रनों and बेचें them at unusually high prices.
In the early 1990s Selena प्रारंभ निर्माण उसके अपना line of women 's clothing.
खोलने two boutiques labeled as `` Selena Etc. बुटीक & Salon '' One located in Corpus Christi and one located in San Antonio, Texas.
One was due to open in Monterrey, Mexico, in 1995 but due to उसके death it was नहीं opened.
Around 1999 the San अंतोनियो location closed and the Corpus Christi location was closed in 2009.
In late 1990s some यूरोपीय retail traders developed the विचार of tailoring a shop towards a जीवनशैली theme, in the form of `` concept stores '', which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments.
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso Como in Milan, Italy followed by Colette in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin.
Several well-known अमरीकी जंजीरों such as Urban Outfitters, D-A-S-H, and the Gap, Australian chain Billabong and, though कम common, रब & टेलर adapted to the concept store trend after 2000.
Navy संघीय Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a क्रेडिट union headquartered in Vienna, Virginia, chartered और regulated under the authority of the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government.
Navy Federal is the largest natural सदस्य ( or retail ) क्रेडिट union in the world, both in asset आकार and in membership.
As of September 2012, Navy Federal had over $ 50 billion usd in assets, and over 4 million members.
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13, 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ), ज्ञात by his stage name स्टीवी अचरज, is an American singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, a child prodigy जो developed into one of the most creative musical figures of the late 20th सदी.
Blind since shortly after birth, Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla label at the age of eleven, and continues to perform and record for motown to this day.
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` Superstition ``, `` Sir Duke ``, `` You Are the Sunshine of My जीवन `` and `` i Just Called to Say I प्रेम तुम ``.
Well known एल्बम भी include Talking Book, innervisions and गीतों in the कुंजी of जीवन.
he has recorded more than thirty U.S. शीर्ष ten hits and प्राप्त twenty-two ग्रैमी Awards, the सबसे ever awarded to a male सोलो artist.
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist लिये political causes, including his 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther King, Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United राज्य.
In 2009, Wonder थी named a संयुक्त Nations Messenger of सलाम.
in 2008, Billboard पत्रिका released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time शीर्ष Artists to celebrate the US singles chart 's fiftieth anniversary, with Wonder at number five.
By लोकप्रिय vote, Stevie थी inducted into The SoulMusic Hall of Fame at SoulMusic.com in December 2012.
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '', for mind/soul, और -ωσις `` -ओएसआईs '', for abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind, and is a जेनेरिक मनोरोग term लिये a mental state often वर्णित as involving a `` घाटा of contact with वास्तविकता ``.
People suffering from psychosis are described as psychotic.
मनस्ताप is given to the अधिक कठोर forms of मनोरोग disorder, during which hallucinations and delusions, gross excitement or stupor और impaired insight may occur.
The term `` psychosis '' is very व्यापक और can mean anything from relatively सामान्य aberrant experiences through to the complex और catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and द्विध्रुवी type 1 disorder.
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases, इससे both बाह्य substances and internal physiologic बीमारी, can उपज लक्षण of मनस्ताप.
This led many professionals to say कि psychosis is not विशिष्ट enough as a diagnostic पद.
Despite this, `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( negative signs ) और more commonly to विविध प्रकार of hallucinations or delusional beliefs ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas one exhibiting very subtle signs could be classified in the श्रेणी of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of psychosis, especially those of schizophrenia.
This is thought to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience of environmental stimuli.
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled ट्रायल of ये drugs, however, show either no significant difference between drug and placebo, or a बहुत small effect size, suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system.
People experiencing psychosis may exhibit कुछ personality changes and thought disorder.
Depending on its severity, this may be accompanied by असामान्य or bizarre बर्ताव, as well as difficulty साथ social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities.
सामान्य Grievous is a fictional character in the Star Wars universe.
a recurring antagonist, he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a राजनैतिक faction of planetary systems waging युद्ध on the Galactic Republic.
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by Count dooku, he is a ruthless and powerful warrior devoted to जेडी 's destruction during the Clone Wars.
उसके acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi body count would prompt the galaxy to give उसे the उपनाम the Knightslayer.
हालांकि the बदनाम Jedi slayer was the being in the galaxy during the Clone Wars who had killed the most Jedi in single combat, he did not hesitate to भागो from लड़ाइयों he knew he would खोना.
Statistics play an महत्वपूर्ण role in summarizing बेसबॉल performance and evaluating players in the sport.
Since the flow of a baseball खेल has natural ब्रेक to it, और सामान्यतः players act individually rather than performing in क्लस्टर, the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics.
Statistics have been kept for professional बेसबॉल since the creation of the National League and American लीग, अभी part of Major League Baseball.
Many statistics are also उपलब्धियाँ इससे outside of Major League बेसबॉल, from leagues ऐसे as the नेशनल Association of Professional आधार Ball Players and the Negro Leagues.
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute मटर pickers in California, centering on Florence ओवेन्स Thompson, age 32, a माँ of seven children, in nipomo, California, कूच 1936.
USA annual real GDP from 1910–60, with the सालो of the Great अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The unemployment रेट in the us 1910–1960, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression was a कठोर worldwide economic depression in the decade preceding World War II.
The timing of the ग्रेट Depression varied across nations, but in सबसे countries it started in 1930 and lasted until the late 1930s or मध्य 1940s.
It was the longest, most widespread, and deepest depression of the 20th century.
In the 21st century, the Great Depression is commonly प्रयुक्त as an example of कैसा far the world 's economy can decline.
The depression originated in the U.S., after the fall in stock prices that began around September 4, 1929, और became worldwide news with the stock market क्रैश of October 29, 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ).
the Great अवसाद had devastating effects in countries rich and poor.
निजी income, tax revenue, profits and prices dropped, while international trade plunged by more than 50 %.
बेरोजगारी in the U.S. rose to 25 %, और in some देशों rose as ऊँची as 33 %.
Cities all around the world were hit hard, especially those निर्भर on heavy industry.
Construction was वस्तुतः halted in many countries.
Farming and rural areas suffered as क्रॉप prices fell by approximately 60 %.
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate sources of jobs, areas dependent on primary sector उद्योग such as cash cropping, खनन and logging suffered the most.
Some economies started to recover by the mid-1930s.
In many countries, the ऋणात्मक effects of the Great Depression lasted until the end of World युद्ध II.
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ), also known as a premature ventricular जटिल, ventricular premature contraction ( or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ), ventricular premature beat ( VPB ), or ventricular extrasystole ( VES ), is a relatively आम event जहाँ the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node, the normal heartbeat initiator.
The electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a PVC to be easily distinguished from a normal दिल ताल.
A PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped beat `` or felt as palpitations in the chest.
In a normal heartbeat, the ventricles अनुबंध after the atria have helped to fill उन्हें by contracting ; in इस way the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood दोनो to the lungs and to the rest of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles contract first and before the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with blood, which means that circulation is inefficient.
However, सिंगल beat PVC arrhythmias do not usually pose a danger and can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William Gary Busey ( born June 29, 1944 ), better known as Gary Busey, is an American फिल्मी and stage actor, and artist.
He has appeared in a variety of films, including Lethal Weapon, Point Break, and Under Siege, as well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke, वाकर, Texas Ranger, Law & Order, and Entourage.
He was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1978 for his role in the Buddy होली Story.
The Anti-Counterfeiting व्यापार Agreement ( ACTA ), is a multinational treaty लिये the purpose of establishing international standards लिये intellectual प्रॉपर्टी rights प्रवर्तन.
the agreement aims to establish an international विधिक framework for targeting नकली goods, जेनेरिक medicines and copyright infringement on the Internet, and would create a new governing body outside existing forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the World बौद्धिक Property Organization, or the संयुक्त Nations.
The agreement was signed in अक्तूबर 2011 by Australia, Canada, Japan, Morocco, नई Zealand, सिंगापुर, South कोरियाई, and the United राज्य.
In 2012, Mexico, the European Union and 22 देशों which are member states of the European Union signed as खूब.
One signatory ( Japan ) रै ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement, which would come into force in countries कि ratified it बाद ratification by six countries.
Supporters have described the agreement as a response to `` the बढ़ाएँ in वैश्विक trade of counterfeit goods और pirated कापीराइट सुरक्षित works ''.
Trades Unions representing workers in the music, film and TV industries और large intellectual property-based organizations such as the Motion Picture संघ of America और Pharmaceutical Research और Manufacturers of America were active in the treaty 's development.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों say the convention adversely affects fundamental अधिकारों सहित freedom of अभिव्यक्ति and privacy.
ACTA has also been criticised by डॉक्टर Without सीमायें for endangering access to medicines in developing countries.
the secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil समाज groups, developing countries and the सामान्य public from the अनुबंध 's negotiation process and it has महरूम described as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier न्यास and the Entertainment Consumers Association.
the signature of the EU और अनेक of its member states resulted in the resignation in protest of the European पार्लियामेंट 's नियुक्त chief अन्वेषक, rapporteur Kader Arif, as खूब as widespread protests आरपार यूरोपीय.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, British mep David Martin, recommended against the treaty, stating : `` The intended लाभ of this international agreement are दूर outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties ''.
on 4 जुलाई 2012, the European Parliament rejected the अनुबंध in plenary session, साथ 478 voting against the treaty, 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining.
faw semi-trailer truck in China
Tractor with पक्ष dump trailer semi-trailer
A ट्रैक्टर with an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer truck with sleeper behind the cab.
A semi-trailer ट्रक is an articulated गाडी कि consists of a towing engine, known as a ट्रैक्टर in the United States and truck in many other places, attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight.
It is also known as a transport in Canada, prime mover in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, semi, tractor-trailer, truck और trailer, transfer truck, 18-wheeler, mack truck, big rig in the United States, or artic, short लिये articulated lorry, in Britain और Ireland.
A semi-trailer करता not ट्रेल completely behind the towing गाडी, but is attached at a point कि is just forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit.
This is done so that a fraction of the weight of the ट्रेलर is carried by the prime mover.
This arrangement means कि दोनो tractor and semi-trailer होगा have a distinctly different डिज़ाइन than a rigid truck and trailer.
The पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स are a professional football team based in Pittsburgh, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the American Football सम्मेलन ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Founded in, the Steelers are the oldest franchise in the AFC.
Pittsburgh has won more Super कटोरी titles ( six ), won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and played in ( पंद्रह ) and hosted more ( eleven ) conference championship games than कोई other afc or NFC टोली.
The स्टीलर्स share the record for most Super Bowl दिखावे with the डलास Cowboys ( eight ).
The Steelers जीती their most recent championship, Super Bowl xliii, on फ़रवरी 1, 2009.
the Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on जुलाई 8, 1933, by Art Rooney, taking इसके original नाम इससे the baseball team of the same name, as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time.
The ownership of the Steelers has remained within the Rooney परिवार since its founding.
The वर्तमान मालिक is Art 's son, Dan Rooney, जो has given much control of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II.
Long one of the NFL 's flagship teams, the Steelers आनंद a large, फैली fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation.
The Steelers फिलहाल खेल their home खेल at Heinz Field on Pittsburgh 's उत्तर Side in the North Shore neighborhood, which also होस्ट the विश्वविद्यालयों of Pittsburgh पैंथर्स.
Built in 2001, the stadium replaced Three नदियाँ Stadium जिससे hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons.
Prior to तीन Rivers, the स्टीलर्स had played their खेल in pitt Stadium and Forbes Field.
Three different kinds of गेहूं और rye flour
Flour is a powder which is made by grinding cereal grains, or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ).
It is the main संघटक of bread, which is a स्टेपल food for many संस्कृतियों, making the उपलब्धता of पर्याप्त supplies of flour a major आर्थिक and political issue at various times throughout history.
Wheat flour is एक of the most important भोजन in यूरोपीय, North American, Middle Eastern, Indian and North African cultures, and is the defining ingredient in सबसे of their styles of breads and pastries.
While wheat is the most common base for flour, मकई flour has been important in Mesoamerican cuisine since ancient times, and remains a staple throughout the Americas.
Rye flour is an महत्वपूर्ण constituent of bread in much of central यूरोपीय, and rice can भी be used in flour, though this is relatively uncommon.
Heart rate is the number of heartbeats प्रति unit of time, typically expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ).
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide परिवर्तन, ऐसे as during physical exercise, sleep, illness, or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system stimulants such as amphetamines increase heart rate.
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the दिल rate ( apart from some particularly strange ones with equally strange effects, such as ketamine which can cause - amongst many अन्य things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ).
वहीँ are अनेक ways in which the heart rate speeds up or slows down.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the brain, अनेक of which are those that are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion और processing of drugs.
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume, एक of the physiological ways to deliver more oxygen to an organ is to increase heart रेट to permit blood to pass by the अंग अधिक often.
Normal resting दिल rates दायरा from 60-100 bpm.
मंदनाड़ी is defined as a resting heart rate below 60 bpm.
However, दिल दरों from 50 to 60 bpm are आम among healthy people और do नहीं necessarily require special attention.
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart रेट above 100 bpm, though persistent rest rates between 80-100 bpm, mainly if वे are उपस्थित दौरान sleep, may be लक्षण of हाइपरथाइरॉयडिज़्म or रक्ताल्पता ( see below ).
Catherine II 's carved, चित्रित and gilded Coronation कोच ( Hermitage Museum )
a carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people, usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) और सेडान chairs are excluded, since they are wheelless vehicles.
the carriage is especially designed for private passenger उपयोग and लिये comfort or elegance, though some are भी used to transport goods.
It may be लाइट, smart और fast or भारी, large and आरामदायक.
carriages सामान्यतः have बर्खास्तगी using leaf springs, अंडाकार springs ( in the 19th सदी ) or leather strapping.
A public यात्री vehicle would नहीं usually be called a carriage – terms for such include stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
working वाहनों such as the ( four-wheeled ) वैगन और ( two-wheeled ) cart share important parts of the history of the carriage, as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) chariot.
the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 utc on संडे, 26 December 2004, with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.
The quake itself is ज्ञात by the scientific community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake.
the resulting सुनामी was given विभिन्न names, including the 2004 भारतीय Ocean tsunami, South एशियाई tsunami, Indonesian tsunami, and the Boxing दिन tsunami.
The earthquake थी caused by subduction and triggered a series of devastating tsunamis साथ the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian समंदर, killing over 230,000 people in fourteen countries, and inundating coastal communities with लहरें up to high.
it थी one of the deadliest natural आपदाओं in recorded history.
Indonesia was the hardest-hit देश, followed by Sri लंका, India, and Thailand.
With a परिमाण of Mw 9.1–9.3, it is the third largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph.
the earthquake था the longest duration of faulting ever observed, between 8.3 and 10 minutes.
It caused the entire planet to हिलना as much as and triggered other earthquakes as far दूर as Alaska.
Its epicentre was between Simeulue and mainland Indonesia.
The plight of the affected people और देशों prompted a विश्वव्यापी humanitarian जवाब.
In all, the worldwide community donated more than $ 14 billion ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid.
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is थर्मल energy उत्पन्न and stored in the Earth.
Thermal energy is the उर्जा that determines the temperature of पदार्थ.
the Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original गठन of the planet ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal अनुपात, जिससे is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the कोर to the सतह.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek जड़ें γη ( ge ), meaning धरती, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal उर्जा is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °f ).
ऊष्मा conducts from the core to surrounding cooler rock.
The high तापमान and pressure cause some rock to melt, creating magma convection upward चूंकि it is हल्का than the solid rock.
The magma heats rock and water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been प्रयुक्त for स्नान since Paleolithic times and लिये space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for विद्युत generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is ऑनलाइन in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal हीटिंग क्षमता is installed for district हीटिंग, space heating, spas, औद्योगिक processes, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, sustainable, and environmentally दोस्ताना, but has historically been limited to क्षेत्रों निकट tectonic थाली सीमाएँ.
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the दायरा and size of viable resources, विशेषकर लिये applications such as घर heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases फंस deep within the earth, लकिन these emissions are much lower प्रति energy unit than those of चट्टान fuels.
as a result, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of चट्टान fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity 's energy needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
खुदाई and exploration for गहन resources is very महंगी.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal शक्ति depend on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी, energy कीमतें, subsidies, and ब्याज दरों.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green शक्ति Program show that ग्राहक would be willing to अदा a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal.
But as a result of सरकारी assisted research और उद्योग अनुभव, the cost of generating geothermal power रै decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy cost between दो और ten cents per kwh.
the पद cubic foot is an Imperial and US customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume, प्रयुक्त in the United States and the संयुक्त किंगडम.
It is defined as the आवाज़ of a cube साथ पहलू of one पैर ( 0.3048 m ) in length.
to calculate cubic feet multiply लंबाई X चौडाई X height.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation :, Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 सितंबर 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh cung and भी known as Nguyễn Tất Thành और nguyễn Ái Quốc, थी a Vietnamese communist revolutionary leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the लोकतांत्रिक Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ).
He थी a key फिगर in the न्यास of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945, as well as the People’s Army of वियतनाम ( pavn ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or vc ) during the वियतनाम War.
He led the Việt मिन्ह independence गति from 1941 onward, establishing the communist -नियमd Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện biên Phủ.
He officially stepped down from power in 1955 due to health problems, but remained a highly visible figurehead and inspiration for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united, communist vietnam—until his death.
After the war, Saigon, पूंजी of the गणतंत्र of Vietnam, थी renamed hồ Chí मिन्ह City.
All Roads Lead Home is a feature फिल्मी released on September 26, 2008.
Directed by डेनिस Fallon, it stars Peter Boyle, Patton Oswalt, Jason London, Vivien Cardone, Vanessa Branch, Peter Coyote, स्टीफन Milton, and Allan Kayser.
The फिल्म was फिल्माया in और around Kansas City, Missouri.
The movie made its संसार Premiere January 27 at the Santa बारबरा International Film पर्व.
The फिल्मी has also recently महरूम in several फिल्मी festivals, and has received ख़राब reviews.
Peter Boyle died before the फिल्म 's release.
It थी the last movie he appeared in.
Sales कर in the United States are taxes placed on the sale or पट्टे of goods and services in the United States.
While no national general sales tax exists, the federal government levies several national selective sales taxes on the बिक्री or lease of particular goods and सेवाएं.
Furthermore, forty-five राज्य, the District of Columbia, and Guam थोपने general बिक्री taxes that apply to the बिक्री or lease of most goods और some services, and states also may लेवी selective sales taxes on the बिक्री or पट्टे of particular goods or सेवाएं.
States may also प्रतिनिधि to local सरकारें the authority to impose additional general or selective sales taxes.
Sales tax is calculated by multiplying the purchase price by the लागू tax rate.
Tax rates vary widely by क्षेत्राधिकार and range from less than 1 % to over 10 %.
बिक्री tax is collected by the seller at the समय of sale.
Use tax is स्वः assessed by a buyer who has not paid sales tax on a taxable purchase.
Unlike the value added tax, a बिक्री tax is imposed only once, at the retail level.
However, in cases where items हैं sold at retail अधिक than once, such as used cars, the sales tax can be charged on the same item indefinitely.
the definition of retail sales और what goods and services are taxable vary among the states.
nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous श्रेणी of goods and services that are exempt from बिक्री tax, or taxed at reduced rates.
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or लिये resale is uniformly exempt from बिक्री tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt food sold in किराना stores, prescription medications, and अनेक agricultural supplies.
Sales कर, including those imposed by local governments, are generally administered at the state level.
States imposing sales tax require खुदरा विक्रेता to collect कर इससे customers, file returns, and remit the tax to the state.
Procedural rules vary widely.
Sellers generally जरूर collect tax from in-state purchasers unless the purchaser provides an exemption प्रमाणपत्र.
Most states allow or require इलेक्ट्रॉनिक remittance.
a central प्रसंस्करण unit ( cpu ), भी referred to as a central प्रोसेसर unit, is the hardware within a कंप्यूटर कि carries out the instructions of a कंप्यूटर program by performing the basic arithmetical, logical, और input/output operations of the system.
The term has been in उपयोग in the computer industry at least चूंकि the early 1960s.
The रूप, design, and implementation of CPUs have changed over the course of their इतिहास, but their fundamental operation remains much the same.
A computer can have more than one CPU ; this is called multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain multiple CPUs on a single chip ; those ICs are called multi-core processors.
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ), जिससे performs arithmetic and logical operations, और the control unit ( CU ), जिससे extracts निर्देश from memory and decodes and executes them, कॉलिंग on the ALU जब necessary.
Not all computational systems rely on a central processing unit.
An array प्रोसेसर or वेक्टर processor has multiple parallel computing तत्व, with no one unit considered the `` center ''.
In the वितरित computing model, problems are solved by a वितरित interconnected set of processors.
RFID chip next to a grain of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a रीडर device.
This small type is incorporated in consumer products, and implanted in pets, for पहचान purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक fields to transfer data, लिये the purposes of automatically identifying and ट्रैकिंग tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically stored information.
Some tags are संचालित और read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic प्रेरण ).
Others उपयोग a लोकल power source ऐसे as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM field, और then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at ऊँची frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at hundreds of meters.
Unlike a बार code, the tag does नहीं necessarily need to be within लकीर of sight of the reader, and may be embedded in the tracked object.
RFID tags are used in many उद्योग.
an RFID tag संलग्न to an ऑटोमोबाइल during production can be used to track its प्रगति through the assembly line.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and पालतु may have tags injected, allowing धनात्मक identification of the animal.
चूंकि RFID टैग can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the possibility of पढना personally-linked सूचना बगैर consent has raised privacy concerns.
Overtime is the amount of time someone works परे normal working hours.
Normal hours may be determined in several ways:
by custom ( what is considered healthy or reasonable by society ),
by practices of a दिए trade or profession,
by legislation,
by agreement between employers और मजदूर or their representatives.
Most nations have overtime labor कानून designed to dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their कर्मचारी to work excessively long hours.
These laws may take into account other considerations than the humanitarian, ऐसे as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy.
One common approach to regulating ओवरटाइम is to require employers to pay workers at a उच्चतर hourly rate for overtime कार्य.
कंपनियाँ may choose to अदा workers higher overtime pay even if नहीं obliged to do so by law, particularly if they मानना that they फेस a backward झुकने supply curve of श्रमिक.
Overtime pay rates can cause workers to कार्य longer hours than वे होता at a flat hourly rate.
ओवरटाइम laws, attitudes toward overtime and hours of कार्य vary greatly from country to country and between different economic sectors.
Visualization of links between पृष्ठों on a wiki using a force-directed layout.
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms for आरेखण graphs in an aesthetically pleasing रास्ता.
Their purpose is to स्थिति the नोड of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and वहीँ are as few crossing edges as possible, by assigning forces among the नियत of किनारे and the set of nodes, आधारित on their relative positions, and then using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize उनके energy.
While graph आरेखण can be a difficult problem, force-directed algorithms, being physical simulations, प्रायः require no खास knowledge about graph theory such as planarity.
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted for महंगाई ) is the amount of goods or services that can be purchased साथ a unit of currency.
For example, if you था taken एक dollar to a store in the 1950s, तुम होता have been able to buy a greater number of वस्तुएं than you would today, indicating that you होता have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a commodity धन, like gold or चांदी, or fiat currency, or free-floating market-valued currency जैसे us dollars.
As Adam Smith noted, having money gives एक the ability to `` command '' others ' मजदूर, so purchasing शक्ति to some extent is power over other people, to the extent कि वे are willing to trade their labor or goods for धन or currency.
if one 's monetary आय stays the same, but the price level increases, the purchasing शक्ति of कि income falls.
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's money income चूंकि it may rise faster than the price level.
A higher real income means a उच्चतर purchasing power since रियल आय refers to the income adjusted for inflation.
लिये a price index, इसके value in the आधार year is usually सामान्यीकृत to a value of 100.
The purchasing शक्ति of a unit of currency, say a डालर, in a given year, expressed in dollars of the base year, is 100/P, जहाँ P is the price index in that year.
So, by definition the खरीदना power of a dollar decreases as the दाम level उदय.
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount C of money, t years into the future, can be computed with the सूत्र for the उपस्थित value :
where in this case i is an assumed future annual महंगाई rate.
Education in South कोरियाई is viewed as being crucial for success and प्रतियोगिता is consequently very heated and fierce.
A central administration oversees the process for the education of children from kindergarten to the तीसरा and final साल of ऊँची school.
Mathematics, विज्ञान, Korean, अंग्रेज़ी, and social studies are generally considered to be the most important subjects.
Normally physical शिक्षा is not considered important as it is नहीं recognised, by the generally academic elitist South Korean populace, as education and therefore many स्कूलों lack high-quality gymnasiums और varsity athletics.
South कोरियाई थी the first country in the world to provide high-speed internet access to all primary, junior, और high schools.
Although South Korean students प्रायः रैंक अत्यधिक on international comparative assessments when compared to विद्यार्थी of most Western education systems, the South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning और memorisation.
The दक्षिण Korean education प्रणाली is rather notably strict and overly structured as compared to its counterparts in most पश्चिमी societies.
भी, the prevalence of non-school for-profit private संस्थान such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ), which too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in students are criticised as a major social problem.
The my Lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) was the Vietnam War mass हत्या of between 347 and 504 unarmed civilians in South वियतनाम on March 16, 1968, by United States Army soldiers of `` चार्ली '' Company of 1st Battalion, 20th Infantry रेजीमेंट, 11th Brigade of the Americal प्रभाग.
Victims included women, men, children, and infants.
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later found to be mutilated and many women were allegedly raped prior to the हत्याओं.
While 26 u.S. soldiers were initially charged with दण्ड offenses for their क्रियाएँ at Mỹ Lai, only Second Lieutenant William Calley, a प्लाटून leader in Charlie Company, थी convicted.
Found guilty of हत्या 22 villagers, he was originally दिए a life sentence, but only served तीन and a half years under house arrest.
The massacre took place in the hamlets of My Lai and My Khe of Son my गाँव.
The event is also known as the Son my Massacre, विशेषकर in the वियतनामी राज्य media.
The U.S. military codeword for the `` Viet Cong stronghold '' थी `` Pinkville ''.
the incident prompted global outrage when it became public knowledge in 1969.
The massacre also increased domestic opposition to the U.S. भागीदारी in the Vietnam War.
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre और protect the wounded were initially denounced by several u.s. Congressmen as traitors.
They received नफ़रत मेल and death threats and found mutilated animals on their doorsteps.
The तीन were later widely praised and decorated by the Army for their heroic actions.
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks were 19 men संबद्ध with al-Qaeda, और 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia.
Others यहूद from मिश्र, Lebanon, और the UAE.
The hijackers were व्यवस्थित into four teams, each led by a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' who were trained to help subdue the पायलटों, passengers, and crew.
The first hijackers to arrive in the United राज्य were खालिद al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi, who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000.
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots, Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi, और Ziad Jarrah early in the गर्मियाँ of 2000 to undertake उड़ान training in south Florida.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, hani hanjour, arrived in San Diego in December 2000.
The rest of the `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' arrived in the spring and early summer of 2001, just months before the September 11 attacks.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad इब्न ʿAbd Allāh इब्न ʿabd al-Muṭṭalib ibn hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), also transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), was a religious, राजनैतिक, and military leader इससे Mecca जो एकीकृत अरब into a सिंगल religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by Muslims and bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर and prophet of God.
Muhammad is almost universally माना by Muslims as the last नबी sent by परमेश्वर लिये mankind.
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider उसे to be the restorer of an unaltered असली monotheistic faith of आदम, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, और other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he थी orphaned at an early age and brought up under the care of his uncle abu Talib.
he later worked ज़्यादातर as a merchant, as well as a shepherd, and थी first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first रहस्योद्घाटन from God.
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming कि `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only रास्ता ( dīn ) acceptable to God, और that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few अनुसरणकर्ता early on, and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly.
To escape persecution, Muhammad sent कुछ of his अनुसरणकर्ता to Abyssinia पहले he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar, which is भी ज्ञात as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the meccan tribes, his followers, who by then had grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely शांतिपूर्ण Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the नगर और then sent his followers out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern अरब.
In 632, a few months बाद returning to Medina from The Farewell Pilgrimage, मुहम्मद गिरी ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian प्रायद्वीप था converted to Islam, and he had united अरब into a single मुस्लिम religious polity.
The revelations ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of परमेश्वर '' and around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, मुहम्मद 's जीवन ( सिरा ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by मुसलमान as the sources of sharia विधि.
वे discuss Muhammad and other नबियों of Islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon him whenever उनके names are उल्लेखित.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern टाइम्स were largely negative, appraisals in modern history have been दूर less so.
इस is a सूची of tables of the सत्यापित oldest people in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is माना 'verified ' if उसके or her अर्जी has been validated by an international body that specifically deals in longevity research, such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is कि of Jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She मिले Vincent van Gogh जब she was 12 or 13.
This led to न्यूज media attention in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
Subsequent छानबीन मिला documentation for Calment 's age, परे any उचित question, in the records of her native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's जीवनकाल has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan लिये male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon किमुरा, who currently जीवनदान in Japan and is आयु as of.
Since the मौत of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 December 2012, किमुरा, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest जीना person in the world whose age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest जीना man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the मौत of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013, the oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also इससे Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
इस is a timeline of the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
The Civil Rights movement was a स्वतंत्रता struggle by अफ़्रीकी Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality.
The goals of the movement यहूद freedom from discrimination, equal अवसर in employment, education and housing, the right to vote और equal access to public facilities.
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock music that विकसित in the late 1960s और early 1970s, largely in the United किंगडम and in the संयुक्त States.
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic चट्टान, the bands that created heavy metal विकसित a thick, massive ध्वनि, characterized by highly amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic बीट्स, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and performance शैलियाँ are generally associated साथ masculinity and machismo.
The first भारी मेटल bands such as Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple और ब्लैक sabbath attracted large ऑडियंस, though they were often derided by critics, a status common throughout the इतिहास of the विधा.
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of its blues influence ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility और an increasing emphasis on speed.
bands in the नई Wave of British Heavy मेटल such as Iron Maiden followed in a similar vein.
Before the end of the decade, heavy मेटल fans became ज्ञात as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam metal became a commercial force with groups जैसे Mötley crüe and ज़हर.
Underground दृश्यों produced an array of more extreme, aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the मुख्यधारा with bands such as मेटालिका, मेगाडेथ, Slayer, and Anthrax, while other styles of the most extreme subgenres of मेटल like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
Since the mid-1990s, popular styles such as nu metal, which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip हॉप ; and metalcore, जिससे blends extreme metal with hardcore punk, have further expanded the definition of the विधा.
the far-right ( also ज्ञात as the extreme right ) refers to the highest degree of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far सही politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society, and supports supremacy of certain individuals or groups deemed to be innately superior or preferable who are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
The far right 's वकालत of supremacism is based on what its adherents perceive as innate characteristics of people that can नहीं be changed.
This stands as a point of अंतर साथ the centre-right 's आरोपण of behaviours, ऐसे as laziness or decadence, as the primary स्त्रोत of social inequalities.
the centre right—unlike the दूर right—claims कि people can end their behavioural हीनता through changing their आदतें and choices.
The original far सही, which emerged in France after the French Revolution, refused to accept the French Republic and supported a counter-revolution to restore the फ्रेंच monarchy and aristocracy.
the far सही is commonly associated with persons or groups who hold extreme nationalist, xenophobic, racist, religious fundamentalist or प्रतिक्रियावादी views.
The most extreme-right आंदोलनों have pursued oppression and genocide against groups of लोगों on the basis of their alleged inferiority.
थामस Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 अप्रैल 1588 – 4 December 1679 ), in some older texts Thomas हाब्स of malmsbury, थी an English पारस, बेहतरीन known today लिये his work on political philosophy.
उसके 1651 book Leviathan established the न्यास for सबसे of Western political philosophy from the perspective of सोशल अनुबंध theory.
hobbes थी a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, but he भी developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the व्यक्तिगत ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state ) ; the view that all legitimate political power must be `` representative '' and based on the consent of the people ; and a उदार निर्वचन of विधि which पत्ते people फ़्री to do whatever the law does नहीं explicitly forbid.
He was one of the founders of modern political philosophy.
His understanding of humans as being matter और motion, obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion, remains influential ; और his account of इंसान प्रकृति as self-interested cooperation, and of political communities as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains एक of the major topics of political philosophy.
In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a diverse array of other फ़ील्ड, including history, geometry, the physics of gases, धर्मशास्त्र, ethics, and general दर्शनशास्त्र.
Emotional intelligence ( ei ) is the ability to पहचानो, assess, and control the emotions of oneself, of others, and of groups.
it can be divided into ability ei and trait EI.
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and रै stronger relationships with traditional intelligence, whereas trait EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires and रै stronger relationships with personality.
आलोचनाओं have centered on whether EI is a real प्रज्ञा and whether it has incremental validity over IQ and the Big पाँच व्यक्तित्व traits.
Heredity is the passing of traits to offspring from its parents or ancestor.
This is the प्रक्रम by जिससे an औलाद cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of इसके parent cell or organism.
through heredity, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause some species to evolve.
The study of आनुवंशिकता in जीवविज्ञान is called आनुवंशिकी, जिससे includes the field of epigenetics.
For United राज्य individual income tax, adjusted सकल आय ( AGI ) is total सकल आय minus specific reductions.
Taxable income is adjusted gross income minus allowances for personal exemptions and itemized deductions.
For सबसे individual tax उद्देश्य, agi is more relevant than gross income.
सकल income is sales price of goods or property, minus cost of the property sold, प्लस अन्य income.
It includes wages, ब्याज, dividends, कारोबार income, rental income, and all other types of आय.
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a business or rental activity and 21 other specific items.
Several deductions ( e.g. चिकित्सा expenses और विविध itemized deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of AGI.
Certain phase outs, including those of निम्नतर कर दरों and itemized deductions, are based on स्तर of AGI.
Many states base state income कर on AGI साथ certain deductions.
`` Lazy Eye '' is the third single from Silversun pickups ' debut album Carnavas.
The band performed the song on the Late दिखाएँ with दाउद Letterman, The Tonight Show with Jay लीनो, Later साथ Jools हॉलैंड, and पिछला Call साथ Carson Daly.
The song is a playable track on Rock Band 2 और Guitar Hero : World दौरे.
an alternate संस्करण of the song, with a length of 7:27, was played on xmu पहले the shorter version थी played on fm and other XM channels.
This version was प्रदर्शित on their demo CD ( which featured early versions of four tracks ).
A टेलीफोन prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone क्रमांक ; in the North अमरीकी Numbering Plan countries ( country code 1 ), it is the पहला three अंक of a seven-digit phone number.
In अन्य countries both the prefix and the क्रमांक may have different lengths.
It shows which exchange the remaining संख्याएँ refer to.
A full telephone क्रमांक is प्रायः made up of country code ( required for international calls तभी ), area code ( जरूरी for calls between telephone areas ), उपसर्ग, and subscriber number.
कुछ places सीमित certain prefixes to fax numbers or cell phones only ; in अन्य places such dedicated prefixes हैं not used.
as telephone technology advanced, the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many places ; 485 in London, UK, was once the GULliver exchange, but now 44207485xxxx is बस considered one of many number blocks served by the clken Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
Metformin ( BP, pronounced, ; originally sold as Glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line drug of चुनाव for the उपचार of प्रकार 2 मधुमेह, in particular, in overweight and obese people और those with normal kidney function.
इसके use in gestational diabetes has been limited by safety concerns.
It is also used in the उपचार of polycystic ovary सिंड्रोम, and रै been investigated for अन्य diseases where insulin resistance may be an important factor.
Metformin works by suppressing ग्लूकोज production by the liver.
Metformin is the तभी antidiabetic drug that has महरूम conclusively दिखाया to prevent the cardiovascular जटिलताओं of diabetes.
It helps reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and is not संबद्ध with weight gain.
, metformin is एक of only two oral antidiabetics in the World स्वास्थ्य संगठन मॉडल List of अनिवार्य Medicines ( the other होने glibenclamide ).
जब prescribed appropriately, metformin causes few adverse effects ( the most common is जठरांत्र परेशान ) and is associated साथ a low रिस्क of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a serious concern in overdose and जब it is prescribed to people with contraindications, but otherwise, there is no significant रिस्क.
पहला synthesized and found to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin was forgotten for the next two decades as शोध shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs.
ब्याज in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports कि it could reduce blood sugar स्तर in people, और in 1957, French physician Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for मधुमेह.
it was introduced to the United Kingdom in 1958, Canada in 1972, and the United States in 1995.
metformin is now believed to be the सबसे widely विहित antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United States alone, more than 48 million prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its जेनेरिक formulations.
The Mount Rushmore National मेमोरियल is a sculpture carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore near Keystone, दक्षिण Dakota, in the संयुक्त States.
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son, Lincoln Borglum, Mount Rushmore features sculptures of the heads of four United States presidents : जार्ज Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham lincoln.
The entire memorial covers and is above sea level.
The tallest mountain in the region is harney Peak ( ).
दक्षिण Dakota historian दोने Robinson is credited साथ conceiving the idea of नक्काशी the likenesses of famous people into the ब्लैक Hills region of South डकोटा in order to प्रचार tourism in the region.
Robinson 's initial idea was to sculpt the Needles ; however, Gutzon borglum rejected the Needles site क्युकी of the poor quality of the granite and strong opposition from पर्यावरणविद and Native American groups.
They settled on the माउंट Rushmore location, which also has the लाभ of facing southeast for maximum sun exposure.
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark, Red बादल और भैंस Bill Cody but Borglum decided the sculpture should have a अधिक नेशनल फ़ोकस, and chose the चार राष्ट्रपतियों whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
After securing संघीय funding, construction on the memorial began in 1927, and the presidents ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939.
Upon Gutzon Borglum 's death in March 1941, his son Lincoln Borglum took over construction.
Although the initial concept called for each president to be चित्रित from head to कमर, lack of funding forced निर्माण to समाप्त in late अक्तूबर 1941.
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the memorial in 1933, while it was स्टिल under construction, और has प्रबंधित the मेमोरियल to the present day.
It attracts nearly तीन million people annually.
Charvet पोशाक shirt from the 1930s, Norsk Folkemuseum, ओस्लो.
A shirt, dress shirt, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up shirt is a garment साथ a collar, a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the हेम, और sleeves with cuffs.
Shirts are predominantly used by मेन, चूंकि women usually wear blouses.
The सामने opening is fastened using बटन or studs, and the cuffs close with buttons or cuff links.
शर्ट are normally made from woven cloth, and हैं often accompanied by a jacket और tie, for example with a suit or formalwear, but shirts are also worn अधिक casually.
In British English, पोशाक shirt means specifically the more formal evening garment worn with black- or white- tie, also discussed below.
Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts और detachable collars attached with collar studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which रै a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes प्रयुक्त in error to लागू to all shirts ( with or बगैर buttoned down छल्लों ), being used as a synonym for `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also ज्ञात as Secretaries दिन or Admin दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In उत्तर America, it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full week of अप्रैल ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is celebrated on the first शुक्रवार in May
Blasting can be:
Abrasive blasting
धमाका furnace
चट्टान blasting
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the अग्रणी painter of the classical फ्रेंच Baroque style, although he खर्च सबसे of his working life in रोम.
His work is characterized by clarity, लॉजिक, और order, and favors लकीर over color.
जबतक the 20th century he remained a major inspiration for ऐसे classically उन्मुख artists as Jacques-Louis David, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and पॉल Cézanne.
he worked in Rome for a circle of अग्रणी collectors there and elsewhere, except for a छोटी period when Cardinal Richelieu ordered him back to France to serve as First Painter to the किंग.
Most of his works are history paintings of धार्मिक or पौराणिक subjects that very often have a large landscape element.
जैकी कैथ Whitley ( July 1, 1954stambler, Irwin, and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : The Encyclopedia. - नई यॉर्क : st. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - देश Music : a Biographical Dictionary. - New York : Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music. - New York : Stockton दबायें - p.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - The tombstone Tourist : Musicians. - New York : जेब Books. - p.395. - isbn 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks, जोकर. - `` Singer कैथ Whitley 's Memory Alive Through Songs, Love in घर Town ''. - The Kentucky Post. - September 25, 1991.— '' देश म्यूज़िक Star Keith Whitley मुर्दे at 33 ''. - lexington herald-leader. - May 10, 1989.——hurst, Jack. - `` Whitley 's Last दिनों ''. - Chicago Tribune. - May 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith whitley ''. - United Press International. - ( c/o the San Francisco Chronicle ). - May 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as कैथ whitley, was an American country म्यूज़िक सिंगर.
Whitley 's brief करियर in mainstream country म्यूज़िक lasted from 1984 until his death in 1989, but he continues to influence an संपूर्ण generation of singers and songwriters.
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts, including five consecutive Number Ones : `` do n't Close Your आँखें ``, `` When You Say nothing at All ``, `` I 'm No Stranger to the Rain ``, `` I Wonder Do You सोचो of me `` and `` it Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ).
Statute of Grand Duchy of Lithuania, written in Polish
A statute is a formal written enactment of a legislative प्राधिकार that governs a state, नगर, or county.
Typically, statutes कमांड or prohibit something, or declare policy.
The word is often used to distinguish law बना by legislative bodies from case law, decided by courts, and regulations जारी by सरकारी agencies.
Statutes are sometimes referred to as legislation or `` black letter विधि. ''
as a source of विधि, statutes are considered प्राथमिक authority ( as opposed to secondary authority ).
Ideally all statutes must be in harmony with the fundamental law of the land ( constitutional ).
This word is प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to the common विधि.
Statutes acquire उनके force from the time of their passage, however unless वरना provided.
Statutes are of अनेक kinds ; namely, Public or private.
declaratory or remedial.
Temporary or perpetual.
A अस्थाई statute is one which is limited in its duration at the time of its enactment.
It continues in force until the time of its limitation has expired, unless sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is one for the continuance of which there is no limited time, हालांकि it may not be expressly declared to be so.
If, however, a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another which is temporary only, the former will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter.
पहले a statute becomes law in some countries, it must be agreed upon by the highest executive in the government, and आखिरकार प्रकाशित as part of a code.
in many countries, statutes are organized in topical arrangements ( or `` codified '' ) within publications called codes, ऐसे as the United States Code.
In many nations statutory law is distinguished from and subordinate to संवैधानिक law.
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate off the common iliac arteries अग्रवर्ती to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis.
They proceed anterior and अवर along the medial border of the psoas major मांसपेशियां.
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the inguinal ligament about एक third laterally from the insertion पाइंट of the inguinal ligament on the pubic tubercle at which पाइंट they are referred to as the femoral arteries.
The external iliac artery is usually the artery used to attach the renal artery to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a गुर्दा transplant.
भाप is a digital distribution, digital rights management, multiplayer और communications platform विकसित by वाल्व Corporation.
It is used to वितरित games और related मीडिया online, from small independent डेवलपर to larger तन्त्र houses ; in अक्तूबर 2012, Valve expanded the service to include non-gaming software.
Steam provides the उपयोक्ता with संस्थापना and automatic management of software across अनेक computers, community features such as friends lists and groups, cloud saving, and in-game आवाज़ and गपशप कार्यक्षमता.
The software provides a freely available application प्रोग्रामिंग interface, Steamworks, that developers can take advantage of to integrate अनेक of Steam 's functions within their software products, सहित नक़ल protection, networking and matchmaking, in-game achievements and micro-transactions, and support लिये user-created content through भाप Workshop.
Though initially developed for उपयोग on microsoft Windows, the client has expanded to शामिल OS X और लिनक्स versions, and clients with limited functionality on the प्लेस्टेशन 3 console and for both iOS and Android मोबाईल devices.
In addition to being a सेंट्रल hub for gaming software, Valve has created a version of Steam with altered functionality to be used in स्कूलों for शैक्षणिक software, including a modified version of Portal 2 लिये teaching science and नाजुक thinking lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 games उपलब्धियाँ through Steam, and 54 million active user accounts.
As of January 2013, Steam has देखी over 6.6 million concurrent खिलाड़ी.
Steam has an estimated 50–70 % share of the digital distribution market for video games.
The भाप logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank और rod from the Walschaerts valve गियर of a भाप locomotive.
जेरी लुईस ( born कूच 16, 1926 ) is an American comedian, actor, सिंगर, film producer, screenwriter and film director.
He is known for his slapstick humor in film, television, stage and radio.
He was originally युग्म up with Dean Martin in 1946, forming the famed कॉमेडी team of Martin and लुईस.
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work, they starred in a कामयाब series of comedy films लिये Paramount Pictures.
लुईस is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as नेशनल chairman लिये the Muscular Dystrophy Association ( MDA ).
Lewis has won several awards लिये lifetime achievements from The American कॉमेडी Awards, Los Angeles फिल्मी Critics Association, and Venice Film पर्व, and he has two सितारों on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
In 2005, he प्राप्त the Governors Award of the Academy of टेलीविज़न कला & Sciences Board of राज्यपालों, जिससे is the highest Emmy Award presented.
on February 22, 2009, the अकादमी of गति Picture Arts and Sciences awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian पुरस्कार.
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs इससे the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss ऐल्प्स through जर्मनी and eventually flows into the North Sea coast in the Netherlands and is the twelfth longest river in Europe, at about, with an average discharge of more than.
The Rhine and the Danube formed most of the northern inland frontier of the Roman साम्राज्य and, since those दिनों, the Rhine has been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods गहन inland.
It has also परोसा as a defensive feature and has महरूम the आधार for क्षेत्रीय and international borders.
The many castles and prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine testify to इसके importance as a waterway.
River traffic could be stopped at these locations, usually for the purpose of collecting tolls, by the state कि controlled that portion of the नदी.
श्री ( Sinhala )
श्री ( Devanagari : श्री, iast ; Śrī ), also transliterated as Sree or Shri or Shree is a word of Sanskrit origin, used in the Indian subcontinent as polite रूप of पता equivalent to the English `` Mr. '' in written and बोला language, or as a title of veneration for deities ( usually अनूदित as `` Holy '' ).
Design of complex structures like the International Space Station needs in-depth understanding of Structural Analysis.
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, construction, and maintenance of the physical and naturally built पर्यावरण, सहित works like roads, bridges, canals, dams, and इमारतें.
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after military engineering, and it was defined to distinguish non-military engineering from military अभियान्त्रिकी.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, geophysics, geodesy, control engineering, संरचनात्मक engineering, biomechanics, nanotechnology, transportation engineering, earth science, atmospheric sciences, forensic engineering, municipal or urban engineering, water resources engineering, सामग्री engineering, coastal engineering, सर्वेक्षण, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the पब्लिक sector from municipal through to national governments, and in the private sector from individual homeowners through to अंतरराष्ट्रीय companies.
Katherine Dunham in Tropical Revue
कैथरीन Dunham in Studio
Katherine Dunham in Tropical Review Tropical Review, Martin Beck Theatre
Katherine Dunham wearing dance costume
Katherine Dunham in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( जून 22, 1909 – May 21, 2006 ) was an अमरीकी dancer, कोरियोग्राफर, लेखक, educator, और social activist.
Dunham had one of the most successful नृत्य करियर in American and यूरोपीय theater of the 20th century, and directed उसके own नृत्य कम्पनी for many years.
She has been called the `` matriarch and queen mother of ब्लैक dance ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s और 1950s, dunham was renowned throughout Europe और लैटिन America and was widely popular in the United States, where the Washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the ग्रेट ''.
For almost thirty सालो she maintained the कैथरीन Dunham Dance Company, the तभी self-supported American black dance troupe at that समय, and over her long career she choreographed अधिक than नब्बे individual dances.
Dunham was an innovator in African-American आधुनिक dance as well as a leader in the फ़ील्ड of dance anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses, commonly called peat moss due to इसके prevalence in wet habitats जहाँ it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
Sphagnum accumulations can स्टोर जल, चूंकि both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside their cells ; पौधे may थाम from 16-26 टाइम्स as much water as उनके dry weight depending on the species.
the empty cells help retain water in drier conditions.
Hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can slowly spread into drier conditions, forming larger peatlands, both raised bogs and blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations then provide आवास for a wide array of peatland plants, including sedges and ericaceous shrubs, as खूब as orchids and carnivorous plants.
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily because of the phenolic यौगिकों embedded in the moss 's cell walls.
In addition, bogs, like सब wetlands, develop anaerobic soil conditions, which produces slower anaerobic decay rather than aerobic microbial action.
Peat moss can also acidify its surroundings by लेने up cations, such as calcium और magnesium, और releasing hydrogen ions.
अंतर्गत the right conditions, peat can accumulate to a depth of अनेक meters.
अलग species of Sphagnum have अलग tolerance limits for flooding and ph, so any one peatland may have a क्रमांक of different sphagnum species.
Individual peat moss plants consist of a main stem, with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles प्रायः consisting of दो or तीन spreading branches and दो to four hanging शाखाओं.
The शीर्ष of the plant, or capitulum, has compact clusters of young branches.
Along the stem हैं scattered पत्ते of विभिन्न shapes, named stem leaves ; the आकार varies according to species.
The leaves consist of two kinds of कोशिकाएं ; small, green, living cells ( chlorophyllose cells ), and large, साफ, structural, dead cells ( hyaline कोशिकाएं ).
The latter have the large water-holding capacity.
The earliest version of the Network Card, issued manually rather than through an APTIS machine.
The first APTIS संस्करण of the Network कार्ड.
This was used इससे the प्रारंभ of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into the 1990s, as stocks had to be used up despite the introduction of the new-look orange-banded संस्करण in 1991.
The introduction of the weekday न्यूनतम fare condition in 2002 resulted in a minor change : the रेड `` r '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard.
This version is still in use as of 2007.
The Network railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by British रेल, upon the creation of उनके संजाल SouthEast area around London, England.
The card is intended to प्रोत्साहित leisure सफर by rail by offering discounts for adults and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares.
The दायरा of discounts उपलब्धियाँ, और the price of the card, have varied since कि time, but the कार्ड has always been valid for a year 's unlimited use.
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National रेल station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent, by completing an application form - no photographic identification or other documentation is needed to buy or use the कार्ड.
it is एक of a number of concessionary fare schemes available on the British railway प्रणाली.
The United Nations ( un ; French : संगठन des Nations Unies, ONU ) is the संसार 's largest, foremost, and सबसे prominent अंतरराष्ट्रीय organization.
The stated aims of the United Nations include promoting और facilitating cooperation in international law, international security, economic विकास, social प्रगति, human rights, civil अधिकारों, civil liberties, राजनैतिक freedoms, democracy, and the achievement of lasting world peace.
the UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League of Nations, to stop युद्धों between countries, and to provide a platform for संवाद.
It contains multiple subsidiary संगठन to carry out its missions.
At इसके founding, the UN had 51 member states ; as of 2011, there हैं 193.
इससे its offices around the world, the UN and इसके specialized agencies decide on सत्य and administrative issues in regular meetings held throughout the year.
the organization has six principal अंगों : the सामान्य Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the सुरक्षा Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in promoting अंतरराष्ट्रीय आर्थिक और social cooperation and development ) ; the सचिवालय ( for providing studies, information, and facilities needed by the UN ) ; the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Court of Justice ( the प्राथमिक judicial organ ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ).
Other prominent UN System agencies include the World Health Organization ( WHO ), the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and United राष्ट्र children 's निधि ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's most prominent स्थिति is that of the office of Secretary-General which has been held by Ban Ki-moon of South Korea since 2007.
the United Nations मुख्यालय resides in international territory in New York City, with further main offices at Geneva, Nairobi, and वियना.
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary contributions from its member states, and has छह आधिकारिक languages : Arabic, Chinese, अंग्रेज़ी, French, Russian, और Spanish.
South Beach, also nicknamed SoBe, is a neighborhood in the नगर of Miami बीच, Florida, संयुक्त States, located due east of Miami नगर proper between Biscayne Bay और the Atlantic Ocean.
The क्षेत्रफल encompasses all of the barrier islands of Miami Beach south of Indian Creek.
This area थी the first section of Miami Beach to be developed, starting in the 1910s, thanks to the विकास प्रयत्न of Carl G. Fisher, the Lummus Brothers, and John S. Collins, the latter whose construction of the Collins सेतु provided the first vital land link between mainland Miami and the beaches.
The area has gone through numerous artificial और natural changes over the सालो, including a booming regional अर्थव्यवस्था, increased tourism, and the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
As of 2010, about 39,186 residents live in South Beach.
the United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election, held on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The रिपब्लिकन Party nominated लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड Nixon, while the Democratic पार्टी मनोनीत John F. Kennedy, Senator इससे Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, रिपब्लिकन Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, was not eligible लिये re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a सीसे of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving him a विजय of 303 to 219 in the Electoral कॉलेज, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in जिससे all fifty of the current संयुक्त States participated.
A number of factors explain why the election was so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an economic मंदी which hurt the incumbent Republican, and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
furthermore, the नई votes that कैनेडी gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the समाप्त, Nixon 's emphasis on उसके experience carried little वज़न, and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
कैनेडी used his large, well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination, secure endorsements, और, with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate lyndon B. Johnson to थाम the South और used television effectively.
This election is notable as होने the first समय in u.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as अध्यक्ष and vice-president, a phenomenon कि has been repeated एकबार, by Barack Obama और Joe बिडेन in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
A poster for a c. 1884 American production of Macbeth, starring Thomas W. keene.
Depicted, counter clockwise from top-left, हैं : Macbeth और Banquo meet the witches ; just बाद the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's भुत ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth.
Macbeth is a play written by William Shakespeare.
It is considered one of उसके darkest and most शक्तिशाली tragedies.
नियत in Scotland, the play dramatizes the corroding psychological and political effects produced जब इसके protagonist, the स्कॉटिश lord मैकबेथ, chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition लिये power.
he commits regicide to become king and then furthers उसके moral descent with a reign of murderous terror to stay in power, eventually plunging the country into सिविल war.
In the end, he loses everything that gives अर्थ and purpose to उसके life before खोने his life itself.
The खेल is believed to have been written between 1603 और 1607, and is most commonly dated 1606.
The earliest account of a performance of what was probably Shakespeare 's play is April 1611, when Simon Forman recorded seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre.
It was first प्रकाशित in the Folio of 1623, possibly from a prompt book.
It was most likely written दौरान the reign of James I, who had been James VI of स्कॉटलैंड before he succeeded to the English throne in 1603.
James थी a patron of shakespeare’s acting company, and of all the plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s reign, Macbeth most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship with the sovereign.
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy, और tells the स्टोरी of a brave Scottish general named Macbeth who receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that one day he होगा become King of स्कॉटलैंड.
Consumed by ambition and spurred to कार्रवाई by his बीवी, Macbeth हत्याएं King डंकन and takes the throne लिये himself.
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia, और he जल्द becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth और महिला Macbeth into realms of arrogance, madness, and death.
Shakespeare 's source लिये the tragedy is the account of King मैकबेथ of Scotland, Macduff, and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ), a history of England, Scotland और Ireland परिचित to Shakespeare and उसके contemporaries, although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the बैकस्टेज world of थिएटर, some मानना that the play is cursed, and will not mention its title aloud, referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play ``.
Over the course of many centuries, the play रै attracted some of the most renowned अभिनेताओं to the roles of Macbeth और Lady Macbeth.
It has been adapted to film, टेलीविज़न, opera, novels, comic books, और other media.
The Milton Hershey स्कूल is a private philanthropic ( pre-K through 12 ) boarding स्कूल in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School, the संस्था थी founded and funded by chocolate industrialist Milton Snavely Hershey and उसके wife, Catherine स्वीनी Hershey.
The school was originally स्थापित for impoverished, healthy, caucasian, male orphans, while today it serves students of various backgrounds.
The मिल्टन hershey School Trust, which funds the school, owns controlling interest in the Hershey Company and owns the Hershey Entertainment and Resorts Company ( herco ) जिससे oversees many of the area होटल along साथ a theme park called Hersheypark.
With over six अरब dollars in assets, the Milton Hershey स्कूल is एक of the wealthiest schools in the world.
The school is overseen by a Board of Managers.
The school currently serves 1,818 students, and plans to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
A member of CORE : गठबन्धन for Residential Education, it is the largest residential education program in the US.
Epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free and open e-book standard
इलेक्ट्रॉनिक article, आलेख in scholarly journals or magazines that can be पहुँचा via इलेक्ट्रॉनिक transmission
The Controlled Substances अधिनियम ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक II of the व्यापक ड्रग Abuse Prevention और Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under जिससे the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग and वितरण of certain substances is regulated.
the Act भी परोसा as the national implementing legislation लिये the सिंगल Convention on Narcotic दवाएँ.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications for a substance to be शामिल in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration और the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and कॉंग्रेस has sometimes scheduled other substances through विधान such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on मापदण्ड including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, और international treaties.
Second-language acquisition or second-language सीखना is the process by which लोगों learn a second language.
Second-language acquisition ( प्रायः abbreviated to SLA ) भी refers to the वैज्ञानिक discipline devoted to studying कि process.
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a व्यक्ति 's first language ; although the concept is नामित second-language acquisition, it can also incorporate the learning of तीसरा, fourth, or subsequent languages.
second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it करता not refer to practices in language teaching.
The academic discipline of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of लागू linguistics.
It is broad-based and relatively नई.
as well as the विभिन्न branches of भाषाविज्ञान, second-language acquisition is also closely related to मनोविज्ञान, cognitive psychology, and शिक्षा.
To separate the academic अनुशासन from the learning प्रक्रम itself, the शर्तें second-language acquisition research, second-language studies, and second-language acquisition studies हैं also used.
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary field, and क्युकी of this it is difficult to identify a precise starting date.
However, it करता appear to have developed a great deal since the mid-1960s.
The term acquisition was originally प्रयुक्त to emphasize the subconscious nature of the learning process, but in recent years learning and acquisition have become largely synonymous.
Second-language acquisition can incorporate heritage language learning, but it does नहीं usually incorporate bilingualism.
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of learning a भाषा, not the process itself, और see the पद as referring to native-like fluency.
लेखक in fields such as शिक्षा and psychology, however, often उपयोग bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism.
second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a विदेशी language ; rather, the सीखना of second languages and the learning of विदेशी languages involve the same fundamental processes in different situations..
There रै been much debate about exactly how भाषा is learned, and अनेक issues are still unresolved.
There are many theories of second-language acquisition, but none are स्वीकृत as a complete explanation by सब SLA researchers.
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field of second-language acquisition, this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future.
Forbes list of billionaires is an सालाना ranking of the world 's wealthiest लोगों, compiled and published by Forbes, an American national business magazine.
The total net worth of each individual on the सूची is estimated, in United राज्य dollars, आधारित on उनके assets और हिसाब लिये debt.
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a सिंगल day, due to daily fluctuations among एक्सचेंज rates and भण्डार valuations.
the United States Secret Service is a U.S. संघीय विधि enforcement agency that is part of the United राज्य Department of मातृभूमि Security.
The sworn members are divided among the Special Agents and the Uniformed Division.
Until कूच 1, 2003, the Service was भाग of the United States Department of the Treasury.
The U.S. रहस्य Service has two पृथक क्षेत्रों of responsibility:
वित्तीय Crimes, covering missions such as रोकथाम and investigation of counterfeiting of U.S. currency and U.S. राजकोष securities, और investigation of major fraud.
Protection, which entails ensuring the safety of current and former नेशनल leaders and their families, such as the President, past presidents, vice presidents, अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार, visiting heads of राज्य, and विदेशी embassies ( प्रति an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign मिशन ( OFM ), इत्यादि. )
The Secret Service 's आरंभिक responsibility was to investigate counterfeiting of u.S. currency, which थी rampant following the U.S. सिविल War.
The एजेंसी then evolved into the United States ' first घरेलू intelligence and counterintelligence एजेंसी.
Many of the agency 's missions यहूद later taken over by subsequent एजेंसियों such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( एफबीआई ), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives ( ATF ), Immigration और Customs प्रवर्तन ( ICE ), and आतंरिक Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` me and Bobby McGee '' is a song written by Kris Kristofferson and Fred Foster, originally performed by Roger Miller.
Others performed the song later, including Kristofferson himself, और Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after her death, बनाना the song the second posthumous number-one single in U.S. chart इतिहास after `` ( Sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide आर्थिक depression and कुल war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only अमरीकी अध्यक्ष elected to अधिक than two terms, he निर्मित a New सौदे Coalition that realigned American राजनीती after 1932, as his domestic policies defined अमरीकी liberalism लिये the मध्य third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy लोकप्रिय song `` Happy Days Are Here again `` as his campaign theme, FDR पराजित incumbent Republican हर्बर्ट Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
सक्रिय by उसके personal victory over पोलियो, FDR 's unfailing optimism और activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister विंस्टन Churchill और Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the allies against Germany and Japan in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his पहला सौ days in office, जिससे began कूच 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a किस्में of programs designed to produce राहत ( government jobs for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic विकास ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, बैंको and transportation ).
the economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, but तब relapsed into a deep मंदी.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme अदालत or passing any considerable विधान ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during संसार War ii.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, except लिये the विनियमन of Wall Street by the Securities and एक्सचेंज Commission, which still exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs include the Federal जमा Insurance Corporation, जिससे थी created in 1933, and Social Security, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the जापानी invasion of China and the आक्रामकता of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong diplomatic और वित्तीय support to China and Great Britain, जबकि बाकी officially neutral.
His goal थी to make America the `` Arsenal of लोकतंत्र `` which would supply munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional स्वीकृति, provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, calling it a `` date which होगा live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort.
As an active military leader, रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall war रणनीति on two fronts that ended in the शिकस्त of the Axis Powers and the development of the संसार 's first atom बमबारी.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American नागरिकों.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the औद्योगिक अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to नई heights as लाखो of people स्थानांतरित to नई jobs in war centers, and 16 million मेन and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American राजनैतिक scene not only during the twelve years of उसके presidency, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united मजदूर unions, big city मशीने, white ethnics, African Americans and rural white Southerners.
He भी influenced the later सृष्टि of the United Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently रेटेड by विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष three U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, साथ with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal डेमोक्रेट, Roosevelt defined उसके वैचारिक position as `` a little बाएँ of बीच. ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, Mara, and MS-13 ) is a transnational दण्ड gang that originated in Los Angeles and has स्प्रेड to other parts of the संयुक्त States, कनाडा, Mexico, और सेंट्रल America.
The majority of the गिरोह is ethnically रचित of Central Americans और क्रियाशील in urban और suburban areas.
In the u.S., the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in लॉस Angeles काउंटी and the San Francisco Bay क्षेत्रफल in Northern कैलिफ़ोर्निया ; the Washington, d.C. metropolitan areas of Fairfax काउंटी, Virginia, Montgomery काउंटी, Maryland, और प्रिंस George 's County, Maryland ; Long Island, नई York ; the Boston, Massachusetts क्षेत्रफल ; Charlotte, उत्तर Carolina ; and Houston, Texas.
वहीँ is also a presence of MS-13 in Toronto, ओंटारियो, Canada.
Members of ms distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the body and भी प्रायः the face, as well as the उपयोग of their अपना sign language.
वे are notorious for their use of violence और a subcultural moral code that predominantly consists of merciless revenge and बेदर्द retributions.
This क्रूरता of the distinguished members of the `` Maras '' or `` Mareros '' earned them a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa कार्टेल battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing ड्रग war south of the संयुक्त States border.
उनके wide-ranging क्रियाएँ have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who have initiated wide-scale छापे against ज्ञात and suspected gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the देश.
हड्डियों is an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on the Fox network in the United States on September 13, 2005.
The show is based on forensic anthropology and forensic पुरातत्व, with each episode focusing on an FBI case file concerning the mystery behind human remains brought by FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth ( दाउद boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ).
The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin, T. J. Thyne, eric Millegan, Tamara टेलर, Jonathan Adams, and John Francis डाले.
Created by Hart Hanson, the श्रेणी is very loosely based on the life and writings of उपन्यासकार and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs, who भी produces the show.
Its title character, Temperance Brennan, is named after the समर्थक of Reichs ' crime novel श्रेणी.
conversely, Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based around a fictional ( in the Bones ब्रह्मांड ) forensic anthropologist named Kathy Reichs.
Bones is a संयुक्त उत्पादन by Josephson Entertainment, Far Field Productions and 20th सदी फॉक्स Television.
The series रै completed airing its eighth season and has been renewed for a ninth season.
सुपर Bowl XXV was an American football खेल between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills और the नेशनल Football सम्मेलन ( NFC ) champion New York दिग्गज to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season.
The Giants defeated the Bills by the score of 20–19, winning their second ever Super Bowl.
It is the तभी Super Bowl decided by एक point.
the खेल थी held at Tampa Stadium in Tampa, फ्लोरिडा, on January 27, 1991, during the height of the Gulf War.
It was thus played अंतर्गत much patriotic fervor.
The कार्यवाही included a rousing rendition of `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` by Whitney Houston during the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills and their विस्फोटक no-huddle ठोकर यहूद making their first Super Bowl appearance after finishing the regular season with a 13-3 record, and leading the league in total अंक scored साथ 428.
In advancing to their second सुपर Bowl, the Giants also posted a 13-3 regular season रिकार्ड, but साथ a ball-control offense and a defense that allowed a league low 211 points.
The खेल is best remembered for Bills placekicker Scott नॉर्वुड 's last-second field goal attempt which went wide right of the uprights, leading to a दिग्गज विजय, and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills.
the Giants set a Super कटोरी रिकार्ड holding possession of the ball लिये 40 minutes and 33 seconds.
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, and made a 75-yard touchdown drive that consumed a सुपर Bowl record 9:29 off the clock.
Giants running back Ottis Anderson, जो carried the बॉल 21 times for 102 yards and one touchdown, थी named सुपर Bowl mvp.
He was the first awardee to receive the newly नामित `` Pete rozelle ट्रॉफी '' ( नामित for the पूर्व commissioner ).
Anderson also recorded one reception for seven yards.
मैल्कम x ( ; May 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also known as el-hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an African-American Muslim minister और इंसान rights activist.
to his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of अश्वेतों, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for इसके crimes against black Americans.
Detractors accused him of preaching racism, black सर्वोच्चता, and हिंसा.
He has been called one of the greatest और most influential African Americans in इतिहास.
मैल्कम X 's पिता died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he थी young, and at least one of his uncles was lynched.
जब he was 13, his mother थी placed in a mental hospital, and he was placed in a series of foster homes.
In 1946, at age 20, he गई to prison for तोड़कर and entering.
In थाना, मैल्कम X became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952, he quickly रोज़ to become one of its नेताओ.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group, लकिन disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led उसे to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a काल of travel in Africa और the Middle ईस्ट, he returned to the United States, where he founded Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
in February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam, he was assassinated by three members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time.
As a प्रवक्ता for the Nation of Islam he taught ब्लैक supremacy and advocated separation of black और white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's जोर on integration.
After breaking साथ the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it, `` I did अनेक things as a [ ब्लैक ] Muslim कि I 'm sorry for now.
I थी a zombie तब... pointed in a certain direction and told to कूच '' —and बनने a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work साथ civil rights नेताओ, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, और self-defense.
The third season of 90210, an American television series, premiered on Monday September 13, 2010.
The CW officially renewed the show for a third season on February 16, 2010.
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule, they घोषित their decision to मूव 90210 to Monday नाइट्स at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to Gossip Girl.
It premiered on सितंबर 13, 2010 and थी मिले with generally positive reviews from critics.
The season picks up at the end of summer and focuses on the students senior year of high school.
It फ़ॉलो Adrianna 's rise to कीर्ति, a new relationship between Silver and Navid and a confused Teddy who decides to reveal to उसके family and friends he is gay.
It also deals with the aftermath of Naomi Clark 's assault.
Regular cast members for the season शामिल Shenae Grimes, Tristan Wilds, AnnaLynne mccord, Ryan Eggold, Jessica Stroup, Michael Steger, Jessica Lowndes, Matt lanter, गिलियन Zinser, Trevor Donovan और लोरी Loughlin.
Rebecca Sinclair जारी her role as कार्यपालिका निर्माता for the season.
The ऋतु premiered to 1.96 लाख viewers and a 0.9 rating in the adults 18–49 demographic.
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness '', hit season highs in all key demos with 2.1 in The cw 's target डेमो of महिलाओं 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
It थी also the most देखी episode in over a year with 2.2 million viewers tuning in.
The season finale aired on May 16, 2011.
the season averaged 1.75 million live viewers और a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating.
it was released on DVD in the United States on अगस्त 30, 2011.
Elizabeth ii ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories and dependencies, और सिर of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
वो is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and, in some of her realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, एलिज़ाबेथ became Head of the Commonwealth और महारानी regnant of seven independent राष्ट्रमंडल countries : the United Kingdom, कनाडा, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan और Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, संत Lucia, संत Vincent and the grenadines, Belize, अण्टीगुआ and Barbuda and संत Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 सालो.
Elizabeth was born in London and educated privately at home.
Her father acceded to the throne as जार्ज VI in 1936 on the abdication of his bhai Edward VIII, इससे which time वो थी the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake पब्लिक duties दौरान the Second संसार War, in जिससे वो served in the Auxiliary Territorial सेवा.
in 1947, she married प्रिंस Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, साथ whom वो has four children : Charles, Anne, Andrew, and एडवर्ड.
Her राजतिलक service took place in 1953 and was the first to be televised.
The Queen 's many ऐतिहासिक visits and meetings include a state visit to the गणतंत्र of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms, such as devolution in the संयुक्त Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of निजी significance have included the births and marriages of उसके children, the births of her grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the जश्न of milestones such as उसके Silver, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, क्रमशः.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in उत्तरी आयरलैंड, the Falklands War, wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince फिलिप 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the मौतों of her mother और sister in 2002.
The महारानी has occasionally faced severe press आलोचना of the royal परिवार and republican sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
The 2010 United States Senate election in Florida took प्लेस on November 2, 2010 along साथ अन्य elections to the United राज्य Senate in other states as खूब as all elections to the United राज्य House of Representatives and various state and local चुनावों.
Republican Marco rubio, former Speaker of the Florida हाउस of Representatives, defeated independent Charlie Crist and डेमोक्रेट Kendrick Meek in a three-way race.
One term Senator Mel Martinez was elected in a very close रेस against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote.
Martinez announced on December 2, 2008 that he would नहीं seek re-election to the Senate, and would resign prior to the end of his term.
In August 2009, Governor Charlie Crist announced that he would appoint his former Chief of Staff, George LeMieux, a Republican, to the सीनेट सीट being vacated by मार्टिनेज.
Governor Crist publicly announced he was कार्यशील for the seat in mid-2009.
At the time he प्राप्त many Republican endorsements, such as the National रिपब्लिकन Senatorial कमेटी, मार्टिनेज, and the 2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain.
His support of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 hurt उसके लोकप्रियता among conservatives, and प्रत्याशी Marco Rubio surged.
In April 2010 Crist announced he would drop आउट of the Republican primary and चलाएं as an independent.
The नेशनल रिपब्लिकन senatorial Committee withdrew इसके endorsement of Crist and demanded a refund of its अभियान funds कि it provided for the Crist campaign.
Congressman Kendrick Meek was the first Democrat to declare his intention to run.
Alexander Snitker was the पहला member of the Libertarian Party on the ballot लिये senator in फ्लोरिडा 's history.
Satellite view of Doha
Doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the capital city of the राज्य of Qatar.
Located on the coast of the Persian Gulf,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008, and is also one of the municipalities of Qatar.
Doha is Qatar 's largest नगर, with over 60 % of the nation 's जनसांख्यिकी residing in Doha or its surrounding suburbs, और is also the economic centre of the country.
दोहा also serves as the seat of government of Qatar, which is शासित by शेख़ Hamad bin Khalifa al Thani.
Doha is home to the शिक्षा नगर, an area devoted to research and education.
Doha was the site of the पहला ministerial-level meeting of the Doha Development Round of संसार Trade Organization negotiations.
The city of Doha आयोजित the 2006 Asian Games, which was the largest Asian Games ever held.
Doha भी hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and सबसे of the खेल at the 2011 AFC एशियाई Cup.
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 and होगा host a large number of the venues लिये the 2022 फीफा World Cup.
The World Petroleum Council held the 20th संसार पेट्रोलियम Conference in Doha in December 2011.
paranasal sinuses are a समूह of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ), above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ), between the आँखें ( ethmoid sinuses ), and पीछे the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ).
The sinuses are named for the facial हड्डियों in which they are located.
Lean निर्माण, झुकना एंटरप्राइज़, or lean production, often simply, `` Lean, '' is a production practice that considers the व्यय of resources for any goal other than the creation of value for the end ग्राहक to be wasteful, and thus a target लिये elimination.
Working from the परिप्रेक्ष्य of the customer who consumes a product or service, `` value '' is defined as कोई action or process that a customer would be willing to pay for.
Essentially, lean is centered on preserving मान with less work.
Lean निर्माण is a प्रबन्धन philosophy derived mostly इससे the Toyota Production System ( TPS ) ( hence the term Toyotism is also प्रचलित ) और पहचाना as `` Lean '' तभी in the 1990s.
TPS is प्रसिद्ध लिये its focus on reduction of the original Toyota सात wastes to improve overall ग्राहक value, but there are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved.
The steady growth of Toyota, from a छोटी कम्पनी to the world 's largest automaker, has focused ध्यान on कैसा it has हासिल इस success.
iCarly logo
iCarly is an American sitcom कि airs on Nickelodeon, which premiered on September 8, 2007.
निकलोडियन promoted many episodes so far ऐसे as `` ido '', `` iHire an Idiot '', `` ipity the Nevel '', `` idate Sam & Freddie '', etc. as specials, despite their being regular episodes.
Every episode title begins with a lower case i which represents the internet, as in `` iCarly ''.
The show थी nominated for an Emmy award for Outstanding Children 's Program in 2009.
the series starring Miranda cosgrove as Carly Shay, a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star.
The series ended on November 23, 2012 साथ the one-hour special episode `` iGoodbye ''.
A total of 7 seasons and 109 episodes were broadcast.
The largest audience of the series थी 11.2 लाख दर्शक, with the special episode `` iSaved Your Life '' premiered in January 2010.
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and उसके sassy best dost Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school हुनर show audition, tech-savvy Freddie ( नाथन Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without telling उन्हें.
After seeing the लड़कियों ' strong रसायन और banter, the online audience clamors लिये अधिक and the iCarly वेबकास्ट is born.
While grappling साथ typical issues of adolescence, Carly, Sam, and Freddie find out कि they have also become online celebrities as their show – which सुविधाएँ talent contests, recipes, problem-solving, and random dancing – garners international accolades.
Carly lives in Seattle, Washington with her 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the show in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment.
Their mother रै never महरूम seen or mentioned, but their father, Steven Shay ( David Chisum ), is a U.S. एयर फ़ोर्स officer temporarily stationed on a submarine, and is प्रायः mentioned but is only seen in person during the series finale episode, `` iGoodbye ''.
Westlife were an आयरिश boy बैंड which formed in 1998 और disbanded in 2012.
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and managed by Louis Walsh, the group 's final line-up consisted of Nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily and Shane Filan.
Brian mcfadden was a member from 1998 until his departure in 2004.
westlife sold over 50 million records worldwide, a total that शामिल studio albums, singles, video releases, और compilation albums.
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in uk history ), tying with Cliff Richard and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley.
वे achieved a total of 26 top ten singles over their 14-year करियर.
By 2010, Westlife was listed in the गिनीज World रिकॉर्ड, as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century.
They also जीती The Record of the Year ( the तभी music award आधारित on पब्लिक votes in the UK ) a record-breaking four times and in 2012, the Official Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history.
despite their European and Asian success, westlife never managed to break into the U.S. market, achieving only one hit single in 2000 : `` कसम It Again ``.
In October 2011, Westlife announced their intention to विभाजित in 2012, following their महानतम Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest Hits album.
The boyband 's final कॉन्सर्ट were held on 22 and 23 June 2012 at croke पार्क Stadium in Dublin.
The first farewell concert, offering 85,000 tickets, sold आउट in a record-breaking 5 मिनट्स and the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide.
Vitamin a is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons, जिससे include retinol, retinal, retinoic acid and अनेक provitamin A carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the most important.
Vitamin A has multiple functions, it is महत्वपूर्ण for growth and development, for the maintenance of the प्रतिरक्षा system and good vision.
विटामिन A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, which combines with protein opsin to रूप rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule, कि is जरुरी for both low-light ( scotopic vision ) और color vision.
Vitamin A also functions in a very different role as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic acid, which is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial और other cells.
in भोजन of animal origin, the प्रमुख रूप of vitamin A is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, which is converted to रेटिनॉल ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine.
The रेटिनॉल form functions as a storage form of the vitamin, and can be परिवर्तित to and from इसके visually active aldehyde form, retinal.
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ), a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized from vitamin A, रै only partial vitamin A activity, और does not function in the retina लिये the visual cycle.
Retinoic acid is used for growth और cellular differentiation.
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid chain is attached, पुकारा a retinyl group.
Both structural features are essential लिये vitamin activity.
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as two connected retinyl groups, which are used in the body to contribute to vitamin A levels.
Alpha-carotene और gamma-carotene also have a सिंगल retinyl group, which give them कुछ vitamin activity.
None of the other carotenes have vitamin activity.
the carotenoid शर्तa- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and रै vitamin activity in humans.
Vitamin A can be मिला in two principal forms in भोजन :
रेटिनॉल, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a पीला, fat-soluble substance.
Since the pure alcohol form is अस्थिर, the vitamin is found in ऊतकों in a form of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially produced and administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ), but no other carotenoids, function as provitamin A in herbivores and omnivore animals, which possess the enzyme ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) जिससे cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, और pure carnivores such as cats और ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and can नहीं convert कोई carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for these species ).
Selena Marie Gomez ( born July 22, 1992 ) is an American singer और actress.
वो बना her debut as a चाइल्ड actress in Barney & Friends.
In 2007, Gomez came to prominence as a starring cast member in the television श्रेणी wizards of Waverly Place.
वो signed to Hollywood Records the following year, and became the संस्थापक and lead singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene.
Their studio albums चुंबन & Tell ( 2009 ), A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ), and When the Sun goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified सुनहरा by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) और have spawned Platinum-certified singles `` Naturally ``, `` Who Says ``, and `` प्रेम You like a प्रेम सोंग ``.
After the रिलीज of television films और their accompanying soundtracks, Gomez made her theatrical film डेब्यू in ramona and beezus in 2010 and starred in Monte Carlo in 2011.
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of waverly Place and the hiatus of Selena Gomez & the Scene in 2012, वो focused on her film career, serving as a voice actress in Hotel Transylvania और अभिनीत in Spring Breakers the following year.
Her debut solo album is tentatively scheduled to be released in summer 2013, and is preceded by इसके सीसे single `` Come & Get It ``.
Outside of her work in the entertainment उद्योग, गोमेज़ is involved in philanthropic activities through charity work and various social and environmental causes.
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an अमरीकी r & b and pop singer-songwriter, अभिनेत्री, and मॉडल.
sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California and the seat of government of Sacramento County.
It is स्तिथ at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the अमरीकी River in the northern portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive सेंट्रल घाटी.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the 35th largest नगर in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural और economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its महानगर area is the fourth largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया after the Greater लॉस Angeles Area, सैन Francisco Bay Area, और the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as अमेरिका 's most ethnically and racially integrated नगर in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the स्विस immigrant जॉन Sutter, Sr., his son John sutter, Jr., and जेम्स W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's Fort, which was स्थापित by Sutter in 1839.
During the California सुनहरा Rush, Sacramento was a major distribution point, a commercial और agricultural center, and a terminus लिये wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony एक्स्प्रेस, and the First transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, Sacramento, अधिक commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State, is the largest local university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य University प्रणाली.
Drexel विश्वविद्यालयों Sacramento is located in शहर, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge स्कूल of Law is स्तिथ in the ओक Park neighborhood.
In addition, the University of California, डेविस is located in nearby Davis, वेस्ट of the पूंजी.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned research hospital, is located in the city of Sacramento.
Memorial Day is a United States federal holiday which occurs every year on the final Monday of May.
Memorial दिन is a day of remembering the men and women who died जबकि serving in the संयुक्त States Armed Forces.
Formerly known as Decoration Day, it originated after the American Civil War to commemorate the संघ and Confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War.
By the 20th century Memorial Day had been विस्तारित to honor सब Americans जो have died in all युद्धों.
It typically marks the start of the summer vacation season, while मजदूर Day marks its end.
अनेक people visit cemeteries और memorials, विशेषकर to सम्मान those who have died in सैन्य service.
Many volunteers place an American flag on each संगीन in नेशनल cemeteries.
By the early 20th century, मेमोरियल Day was an occasion for more general expressions of memory, as लोगों visited the graves of their मृतक relatives in church cemeteries, whether they था served in the military or not.
It भी became a long वीकेंड increasingly devoted to खरीदारी, family महफिलों, fireworks, trips to the beach, and national media events.
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries are held on a Sunday in late spring or early summer in कुछ rural areas of the American दक्षिण, notably in the mountains.
in मामले involving a family graveyard जहाँ remote ancestors as खूब as those जो were deceased more recently are दफ्न, this may take on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles.
People gather on the designated day and put पुष्प on graves and renew सम्पर्क साथ kinfolk and अन्य.
वहीँ often is a धार्मिक service and a `` dinner on the मैदान, '' the परंपरागत term for a potluck meal in which people प्रयुक्त to spread the बर्तन out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass.
It is believed that this practice began before the अमरीकी Civil War and thus may reflect the real origin of the `` memorial day '' विचार.
Memorial Day is नहीं to be उलझन साथ Veterans दिन ; Memorial दिन is a दिन of remembering the men and महिलाओं जो died while serving, जबकि Veterans Day मनाता the service of all U.S. सैन्य veterans, living or dead.
mt. Zion Church state history marker निकट Philadelphia, Mississippi.
Freedom गर्मियाँ ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) was a campaign in the संयुक्त States launched in June 1964 to attempt to पंजीकरण as अनेक African American मतदाता as possible in Mississippi, जिससे था historically excluded सबसे अश्वेतों from voting.
The प्रोजेक्ट also set up dozens of Freedom स्कूलों, Freedom Houses, and जातियाँ centers in छोटी कस्बों throughout Mississippi to aid the local black population.
the project was व्यवस्थित by the परिषद of Federated संगठन ( COFO ), a coalition of the Mississippi शाखाओं of the four major civil rights organizations ( SNCC, CORE, NAACP and SCLC ).
Most of the impetus, leadership, and financing for the Summer प्रोजेक्ट came from the SNCC.
रॉबर्ट Parris Moses, SNCC field सचिव and co-director of COFO, directed the summer project.
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music विधा that originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep South `` of the United States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals, कार्य songs, फ़ील्ड hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads.
The blues रूप, सर्वव्यापी in jazz, rhythm and blues, and rock and फेंकें is characterized by specific chord progressions, of which the twelve-bar ब्लूज़ chord progression is the most common.
the ब्लू notes that, for expressive purposes हैं सुंग or played flattened or gradually bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in relation to the pitch of the major scale, हैं भी an important भाग of the sound.
the ब्लूज़ genre is आधारित on the blues रूप but possesses other विशेषताएँ such as specific lyrics, bass lines, and instruments.
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from country to urban blues that were more or less popular during different periods of the 20th century.
Best known are the Delta, piedmont, Jump, और Chicago blues styles.
World War II चिह्नित the transition from ध्वनिक to इलेक्ट्रिक ब्लूज़ and the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience, especially white listeners.
In the 1960s और 1970s, a hybrid form पुकारा blues-rock evolved.
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '', meaning वेदना and sadness ; an early use of the term in this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act तमाशा Blue शैतानों ( 1798 ).
Though the उपयोग of the phrase in African-American music may be older, it has been attested to since 1912, जब हार्ट Wand 's `` Dallas Blues `` became the पहला copyrighted blues संयोजन.
In गीत the phrase is often प्रयुक्त to describe a depressed mood.
A quarter dollar, commonly shortened to quarter, is a coin लायक 1⁄4 of a United States डालर or 25 cents.
The quarter has been उत्पादित since 1796.
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ जिससे is more आम in other parts of the world, originated साथ the practice of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped खण्ड ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ).
At one time `` two bits ``, i.e. two wedges, each wedge an eighth, thus a quarter of the स्पेनी real, was a common nickname for a quarter.
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican अवकाश celebrated throughout मैक्सिको और around the world in other cultures.
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family and friends to pray for और remember friends और family members जो have died.
It is particularly मनाये in मैक्सिको, जहाँ it is a national holiday, और सब banks are closed.
The जश्न takes place on November 1 and 2, in connection साथ the Catholic holidays of All Saints ' दिन and All Souls ' Day.
परंपराओं कनेक्ट with the holiday include building private altars honoring the deceased using शुगर skulls, marigolds, and the favorite foods and beverages of the departed and visiting graves with these as उपहार.
They also leave possessions of the deceased.
विद्वानों trace the origins of the आधुनिक Mexican holiday to स्वदेशी observances dating back hundreds of years और to an Aztec festival dedicated to the देवी Mictecacihuatl.
the holiday रै spread throughout the world : in Brazil, Dia de Finados is a public holiday कि अनेक Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches.
in Spain, there are त्यौहार and parades, and, at the समाप्त of the day, people एकत्रित at कब्रिस्तान और pray for their dead loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe, and similarly themed celebrations appear in many Asian and अफ़्रीकी cultures.
ANITA Mk viii.
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the world 's first all- electronic desktop calculators.
Designed and built by the Bell Punch co.
in Britain, और marketed through इसके Sumlock Comptometer division, वे used vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in उनके logic circuits and nixie tubes for उनके numerical displays.
They were the first of a series of desktop और hand-held electronic calculators कि the कम्पनी was to develop and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s.
जार्ज Washington ( –, 1799 ) was the first President of the United राज्य ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the अमरीकी Revolutionary War, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
He presided over the सम्मेलन that drafted the Constitution, which replaced the Articles of Confederation and established the position of President.
Washington was elected President as the unanimous choice of the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788, और he served दो शर्तें in office.
He oversaw the creation of a strong, well-financed national government that maintained neutrality in the wars raging in Europe, suppressed rebellion, and जीती acceptance among Americans of all प्रकार.
His leadership style स्थापित many forms and संस्कार of government that have been प्रयुक्त since, such as using a cabinet प्रणाली and delivering an inaugural address.
Further, the शांतिपूर्ण transition from his presidency to the प्रेसिडेंसी of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st century.
Washington was hailed as `` father of his country `` भी during his आजीवन.
वॉशिंगटन थी born into the provincial gentry of Colonial Virginia ; his wealthy planter परिवार owned तम्बाकू plantations and slaves.
After both his father and older brother died when he थी young, Washington became personally and professionally attached to the powerful William Fairfax, who प्रचारित his career as a surveyor and soldier.
Washington quickly became a senior अधिकारी in the colonial forces दौरान the first stages of the French और Indian War.
चुनी by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the Continental Army in the American Revolution, Washington managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776, but was defeated and almost captured later that year जब he खोया New York नगर.
After crossing the Delaware River in the dead of winter, he defeated the अंग्रेजों in two battles, retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause.
Because of उसके strategy, Revolutionary forces captured two major अंग्रेजों armies at Saratoga in 1777 और Yorktown in 1781.
Historians laud Washington for his selection and supervision of उसके generals, encouragement of morale and ability to hold together the army, coordination साथ the state governors and state militia units, relations with Congress and attention to supplies, logistics, and training.
In battle, however, Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by British generals with larger armies.
बाद victory had been finalized in 1783, वॉशिंगटन resigned as commander-in-chief rather than seize power, proving his opposition to dictatorship and उसके commitment to American republicanism.
Dissatisfied साथ the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation, in 1787 Washington presided over the संवैधानिक Convention that drafted the United States Constitution.
निर्वाचित unanimously as the first President of the United States in 1789, he attempted to bring rival गिरोहों together to unify the nation.
he supported सिकंदर Hamilton 's कार्यक्रम to pay off सब state and national debt, to implement an effective कर system and to create a नेशनल bank ( despite opposition from Thomas जेफरसन ).
Washington proclaimed the United States neutral in the wars raging in यूरोपीय after 1793.
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of सलाम and profitable trade by securing the Jay Treaty in 1795, despite intense विपक्ष from the Jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the Federalist Party, he supported इसके programs.
Washington 's Farewell Address was an influential primer on republican virtue and a warning against partisanship, sectionalism, and भागीदारी in foreign युद्धों.
He रिटायर्ड from the presidency in 1797 और लौटे to his home, Mount Vernon, and उसके domestic life where he प्रबंधित a variety of enterprises.
He freed सब his slaves by his final होगा.
Washington had a दृष्टि of a ग्रेट and शक्तिशाली nation that होता be built on republican lines using संघीय power.
He sought to use the national government to preserve liberty, improve infrastructure, open the western lands, promote commerce, found a permanent capital, reduce क्षेत्रीय tensions and प्रचार a स्पिरिट of American nationalism.
at his death, Washington was eulogized as `` first in war, first in peace, and पहला in the hearts of his countrymen '' by Henry Lee.
The Federalists made him the प्रतीक of their party but लिये many years, the Jeffersonians continued to distrust his influence and delayed building the वॉशिंगटन Monument.
as the leader of the first successful क्रान्ति against a colonial साम्राज्य in world history, Washington became an international icon for liberation and राष्ट्रवाद, especially in France and Latin America.
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S. Federal बिता – Cash or बजट आधार.
Fiscal साल 2012 U.S. संघीय Receipts.
The Budget of the United States सरकारी often begins as the अध्यक्ष 's proposal to the U.S. Congress जिससे recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1.
however, Congress is the body required by law to pass a बजट annually and to submit the budget passed by both houses to the President for signature.
congressional decisions are governed by rules and legislation regarding the federal budget प्रक्रम.
Budget समितियों set spending limits लिये the हाउस and Senate समितियों और for Appropriations subcommittees, which तब approve individual appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs.
If Congress fails to pass an annual budget ( as has been the case since 2009 ), a series of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures.
After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the President, who may sign it into law, or may veto it ( as he होता a budget when passed by the Congress ).
A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress, which can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority in प्रत्येक chamber.
Congress may also combine all or कुछ appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
In जोड, the अध्यक्ष may request and the कॉंग्रेस may pass supplemental appropriations bills or emergency supplemental appropriations bills.
अनेक government एजेंसियों provide बजट data और विश्लेषण.
These शामिल the Government Accountability Office ( gao ), Congressional Budget Office, the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) and the U.S. Treasury Department.
These agencies have reported that the federal government is facing a श्रेणी of important financing challenges.
In the short-run, tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy choices, जबकि expenditures have expanded for wars, unemployment insurance और other safety net spending.
In the long-run, expenditures related to healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow faster than the economy overall as the जनसांख्यिकी matures.
New Guinea ( भी, Tok Pisin : Niugini, Dutch : nieuw गिनी, and ; historically : पापुआ ) is the world 's दूसरी largest island, बाद Greenland, covering a जमीन area of 786,000 km2.
Located in the दक्षिणपश्चिम Pacific समंदर, it lies geographically to the east of the Malay Archipelago, with जिससे it is sometimes included as part of a वृहद Indo-Australian Archipelago.
Geologically it is a part of the same tectonic plate as Australia.
When world sea levels were low, the two साझा shorelines ( which अभी lie 100 to 140 metres below sea level ), combining with lands now inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul, भी known as Greater Australia.
The दो landmasses became separated when the area now known as the टोरेस Strait flooded बाद the end of the last glacial period.
Anthropologically, New Guinea is considered भाग of Melanesia.
Politically, the western हाफ of the island comprises two Indonesian provinces : पापुआ and West Papua.
The eastern half forms the मेनलैंड of the country of पापुआ New Guinea.
The island has a population of about 7.5 लाख, with a very low population density of तभी 8 inh/km2.
नई Guinea is differentiated from इसके drier, flatter, and less fertile दक्षिणी counterpart, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, by its much higher rainfall और इसके क्रियाशील volcanic geology, with its उच्चतम point, puncak jaya, reaching an उन्नयन of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two जमीन masses share a similar animal fauna, with marsupials, including wallabies और possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
अन्य than bats and some two dozen indigenous rodent genera, there are no pre-human indigenous placental mammals.
Pigs, several additional species of rats, and the ancestor of the New Guinea Singing श्वान यहूद introduced with इंसान colonization.
the human presence on the island dates वापस at तनिक 40,000 सालो to the oldest human migrations out of Africa.
Research indicates कि the highlands were an जल्दी and independent center of agriculture, with प्रमाण of irrigation going वापस at least 10,000 सालो.
Because of the समय depth of its inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape, an unusually high number of languages are बोला on the island, with some 1,000 भाषाएं ( a figure उच्चतर than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian कुल of 6,000 human dialects.
सबसे are classified as Papuan languages, a generally accepted geographical term which a minority of लेखक hold to be a genetic एक.
A number of Austronesian languages are spoken on the coast and on offshore islands.
in the 16th century Spanish explorers खोजा the island and called it Nueva Guinea.
In हाल history western New Guinea was included in the Dutch ईस्ट Indies उपनिवेश.
The germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the द्वीप as German New गिनी in their pre–World युद्ध I effort to establish themselves as a colonial power, whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain.
Following the Treaty of Versailles, the German portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already governing the अंग्रेजों अर्जी, named the Territory of Papua ) as a League of राष्ट्र mandate.
The eastern half of the island was granted independence from Australia as Papua नई Guinea in 1975.
The western half gained स्वतंत्रता from the Dutch in 1961, but became part of Indonesia soon afterwards in controversial हालातों.
`` The वैन buren Boys '' is the 148th एपीसोड of the sitcom Seinfeld, and name of a fictional New York street gang.
उनके sign is crossing the hands, with one hand with सब the fingers 'up ' and स्प्रेड out.
the other hand has all लकिन the thumb और pointer उंगली up, for a total of eight ( 8 ).
The gang is नामित for the 8th President of the United राज्य, Martin वैन Buren ( who was the first अध्यक्ष from New यॉर्क ).
This was the 14th एपीसोड लिये the 8th season.
It aired on फ़रवरी 6, 1997.
Bevo sign
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt पेय, or निकट बियर, brewed in the United States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century.
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the time of prohibition, when बियर, wine and distilled liquors, यहूद made illegal for thirteen years.
The anheuser-busch कम्पनी started brewing bevo when alcoholic beverages यहूद prohibited in 1916 by the United States armed शक्तियां.
Production rose greatly साथ नेशनल prohibition in 1919, and bevo थी by far the most popular of the अनेक `` cereal beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the समय.
at the शिखर of its लोकप्रियता in the जल्दी 1920s, more than five लाख मामले of Bevo were sold annually.
renard साथ a mug of Bevo, depicted in terra cotta on the interior दीवारें of the Bevo भवन, St. Louis
Labels on the बोतलों billed it as `` Bevo the Beverage ''.
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` beverage '' and the Slavic language word for beer `` pivo '', and was pronounced `` Bee-vo ''.
Some Bevo advertising प्रदर्शित the character `` Renard the Fox `` ( आधारित on the protagonist of a medieval French folk-tale ), and promotional मग with this character were manufactured.
in 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied cars in its St. Louis shops called the `` bevo Boats '' which were प्रयुक्त लिये promotion.
Seven are believed to have been built on Pierce-Arrow 8-cylinder chassis while one surviving उदाहरण was based upon 1930 कैडिलैक 353 V8.
बिलबोर्ड advertising Bevo in Trenton, नई Jersey, 1917
A contemporary advertisement read `` Cooling and invigorating, Bevo the Beverage.
Order by the case from अपना पंसारी, druggist, or डीलर. ''
The paper label on the वापस of the बोतल read `` The All-Year-Round Soft Drink.
Appetizing - Healthful - Nutritious - Refreshing.
Milk or water may contain जीवाणु.
BEVO never does. ''
Bevo became part of the लोकप्रिय culture of the समय, and is mentioned in various popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to द्वितीयक slang uses of the word ; लिये example, in American सैन्य slang a यंग and अनुभवहीन अधिकारी was called a `` Bevo ''.
the University of टेक्सास named its mascot `` Bevo '', a नाम which has stuck to this day.
Irving Berlin included a paean to the पेय, `` तुम Ca n't Stay Up on Bevo '', in उसके 1917 army revue, Yip Yip Yaphank.
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg बियर और liquor as well as `` homebrew ``, काटें into Bevo 's marketshare.
With sales flattening to 100,000 cases by 1929, Anheuser-Busch रोका production.
The Bevo Mill, St. Louis, in 2008
the Bevo भवन, with the renard character prominently प्रदर्शित at the corners, still operates as a bottling facility at उनके main brewery in St. Louis, Missouri.
the landmark Bevo Mill, constructed by August Anheuser Busch, sr. in 1917.
It थी closed in 2009, लकिन it reopened in October 2009 under नई स्वामी.
Bevo is also mentioned in the छोटी story `` The Killers `` by अर्नेस्ट Hemingway ; as well as in babbitt by Sinclair लुईस.
Mylanta is an over the काउंटर medication used for the treatment of acid reflux, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( भी known as GERD ).
Foremilk and Hindmilk samples of human breast milk
A कांच of pasteurized cow milk
मिल्क is a white liquid produced by the mammary glands of mammals.
it is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food.
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the माँ 's antibodies to the baby और can reduce the risk of many रोगों in the baby.
It भी contains many other nutrients.
As an agricultural product, milk is निकाली from mammals और used as food लिये इंसानो.
Worldwide, dairy farms produced about 730 लाख tonnes of मिल्क in 2011.
India is the world 's largest producer and उपभोक्ता of मिल्क, yet neither exports nor imports मिल्क.
New Zealand, the European Union 's 27 member states, Australia, and the United States हैं the world 's largest निर्यातक of milk and milk products.
China and रूस are the world 's largest importers of milk and milk products.
Throughout the world, there are more than 6 billion consumers of मिल्क और milk products.
Over 750 million people live within dairy खेती households.
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition and food security particularly in विकासशील countries.
Improvements in livestock and दुग्ध प्रौद्योगिकी offer significant promise in reducing poverty and malnutrition in the world.
Motorcycle स्पीडवे, usually referred to as speedway, is a motorcycle sport involving four and sometimes up to six राइडर्स competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit.
Speedway मोटरसाइकिल use only one gear and have no brakes and racing takes place on a flat oval track usually consisting of मैल or loosely packed shale.
Competitors use this surface to slide उनके machines बगलों, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the straight sections of the track the motorcycles reach speeds of up.
the exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a type of speedway racing being practised in the USA before the First World युद्ध and in Australia in the late 1910s and early 1920s.
There are अभी both domestic and international competitions in a number of countries including the Speedway World Cup whilst the highest overall स्कोरिंग individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion.
Speedway is popular in सेंट्रल and northern यूरोपीय and to a lesser extent in Australia and North America.
A रूपांतर of track racing, speedway is administered internationally by the fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme ( fim ).
घरेलू speedway events are regulated by FIM affiliated नेशनल मोटर खेल federations.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal absorption of calcium and फास्फेट.
In humans, the most important related compounds of vitamin d are vitamin d2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin d3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) हैं unique as they constitute what we जान as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
the body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine विटामिन '' ).
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin, it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict भाव, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most स्तनधारियों exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in their diet. )
An सशुल्क chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a विटामिन when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other यौगिकों commonly called vitamins, vitamin D was discovered in an प्रयत्न to find the dietary पदार्थ that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like अन्य compounds called vitamins, in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid बीमारी due to deficiency.
उपायों of serum स्तर प्रतिबिंबित endogenous संश्लेषण from exposure to sunlight as well as intake इससे the diet, and it is believed कि संश्लेषण may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
the evidence indicates कि the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop कि prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk इससे sunlight, no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine, USA, for the राशि of सूर्य exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference intakes लिये vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and that सब of a person 's vitamin D is from their आहार, although that होगा rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is परिवर्तित to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific विटामिन D metabolite कि is measured in serum to determine a व्यक्ति 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of विटामिन D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the विशेषज्ञता of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream और promoting the healthy विकास and remodeling of bone.
calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys लिये other purposes, such as the proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular फलन and inflammation.
Beyond its उपयोग to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण for other स्वास्थ्य effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health and a decrease in मृत्यु in elderly women.
The Duramax is a General Motors diesel engine family for light- और medium duty ट्रक, designed by Isuzu.
The 6.6-liter Duramax is उत्पादित by DMAX, a joint venture between gm and Isuzu in Moraine, Ohio.
This engine was initially installed in 2001 मॉडल year Chevy और जीएमसी trucks and has been an option since then in pickups, vans, and medium-duty trucks.
In 2006, production at Moraine थी reportedly limited to approximately 200,000 engines per year.
On may 9, 2007, DMAX घोषित the production of the 1,000,000th Duramax V-8 डीज़ल at its Moraine facility.
Duramax lml
Balto.
is also a traditional written abbreviation for Baltimore, Maryland.
Statue of Balto in Central Park ( New यॉर्क City )
Balto ( 1919 – कूच 14, 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled श्वान who led उसके team on the final leg of the 1925 सीरम run to Nome, in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported from Anchorage, Alaska, to Nenana, अलास्का, by train and then to nome by श्वान sled to कॉम्बैट an outbreak of the disease.
The चलाएं is commemorated by the annual Iditarod Trail sled श्वान Race.
Balto थी named after the Sami explorer सैमुएल Balto.
Balto died at the age of 14.
प्राध्यापक स्टीफन हॉकिंग, ज्ञात for being a theoretical physicist, has appeared in अनेक works of popular culture.
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door खेल car ''.
The origins of the उच्चिष्ट began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder version of the Bluebird, and was spun into its अपना line in 1981, having been made continuously since then.
the `` Maxima '' name was applied धीरे, beginning in 1981.
Most pre-2004 maximas were built in oppama, Japan, until the current North American Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna, टेनेसी.
The `` Maxima '' has also been applied to Cefiros and Laurels in various markets.
Propolis as hive sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that मधु bees collect इससे tree buds, sap flows, or अन्य botanical स्त्रोत.
It is used as a sealant for unwanted open spaces in the hive.
Propolis is used लिये small gaps ( approximately or less ), जबकि larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax.
Its color varies depending on इसके वनस्पति source, the most common being अंधेरा brown.
Propolis is sticky at और above रूम तापमान,.
At lower temperatures, it becomes hard और very brittle.
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; कूच 26, 1948 ) is an American सिंगर, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, बेहतरीन known as the frontman and lead singer of the Boston -based चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ, in which he also plays the harmonica, और occasional piano and percussion.
He is known as the `` Demon of Screamin ' '' due to his high screams और his wide गायन range.
he is also known for उसके on-stage acrobatics.
During his high-energy performances, he प्रायः dresses in उज्जवल, रंगीन outfits with his trademark scarves hanging from उसके microphone स्टैंड.
In the 1970s, Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith, जिससे released such पड़ाव hard rock albums as खिलौने in the Attic and Rocks.
in the लेट 1970s और early 1980s, Tyler had a heavy drug and alcohol addiction, and the band 's popularity waned.
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently maintained sobriety for over 20 years, but had a relapse साथ prescription painkillers in the लेट 2000s, for which he successfully received treatment in 2009.
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and early 1990s with the albums Permanent Vacation, Pump, and Get a Grip, टायलर became a household नाम and has remained a relevant rock icon.
As a result, he रै since embarked on several सोलो endeavors including guest appearances on other artists ' music, फिल्मी and TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ), authoring a bestselling किताब, और solo कार्य ( सहित a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ).
However, he रै continued to रिकार्ड music and perform with एरोस्मिथ, बाद more than 43 सालो in the बैंड.
the बैंड 's latest album, Music from Another आयाम !
, was released on नवम्बर 6, 2012.
Tyler is शामिल among रोलिंग Stones 100 Greatest Singers.
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit Parader 's Top 100 Metal Vocalists of All Time.
In 2001 he was inducted into the चट्टान and Roll Hall of Fame साथ Aerosmith, and he was the presenter जब AC/DC थी inducted into the Hall of कीर्ति in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler and उसके songwriting partner Joe Perry will be प्राप्तकर्ता of the ASCAP Founders Award and will also be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
The liver produces urea in the यूरिया cycle as a waste उत्पाद of the पाचन of protein.
सामान्य इंसान adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of यूरिया nitrogen प्रति 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood.
व्यक्तिगत laboratories may have different reference ranges, and this is because the कार्यविधि may vary.
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a पूर्व American football coach and college and professional football खिलाड़ी who थी the सिर coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996.
His 67 विन्स and 71 losses हैं each the सबसे लिये a head coach in टोली इतिहास.
The यहूदियों ( ISO 259-3 Israeli उच्चारण ), also known as the यहूदी people, हैं a nation and an ethnoreligious group, originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient Near East.
the Jewish ethnicity, nationality, and religion are strongly interrelated, as Judaism is the traditional faith of the यहूदी nation.
converts to Judaism, जिनकी status as Jews within the Jewish ethnos is बराबर to those born into it, have been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia.
in Jewish परंपरा, Jewish ancestry is traced to the biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE.
the modern State of Israel was established as a Jewish nation-state, और defines itself as such in its मौलिक Laws.
Its Law of Return grants the right of citizenship to any Jew who requests it.
Israel is the only country where Jews हैं a majority of the जनसांख्यिकी.
Jews also enjoyed political autonomy twice पहले in ancient history.
the first of these periods lasted from 1350 to 586 BCE, and encompassed the अवधि of the Judges, the संयुक्त Monarchy, and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah, ending with the destruction of the First Temple.
The second was the period of the Hasmonean Kingdom spanning इससे 140 to 37 BCE.
Since the destruction of the First Temple, सबसे Jews have lived in diaspora.
A अल्पसंख्यक in every देश in which they live ( except Israel ), they have अक्सर अनुभवी persecution throughout history, resulting in a population कि has fluctuated both in संख्याएँ और distribution over the centuries.
The world Jewish population reached a peak of 15 million prior to the Second संसार War, लकिन six million Jews were killed in the Holocaust.
Since then the जनसांख्यिकी रै risen again and, was estimated at 13.4 लाख by the North American Jewish Data Bank, or less than 0.2 % of the total world population ( roughly one in every 514 people ).
according to this report, about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ), and 39.3 % in the United States ( 5.3 million ), with most of the शेष living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ).
These numbers include all those who consider themselves Jews, whether or not they are affiliated with a Jewish organization.
The total world Jewish population, however, is मुश्किल to माप.
In addition to issues with census methodology, there are halakhic disputes regarding who is a Jew and secular, political, और ancestral identification कारकों कि may affect the figure considerably.
Corpus Christi procession.
Oil on कैनवास by कार्ल Emil Doepler.
Corpus Domini redirects here.
For other uses see Corpus Domini ( disambiguation )
The feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin for Body of Christ ), also known as कॉर्पस Domini, is a Latin Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the देह and blood of यीशु Christ और his Real Presence in the Eucharist.
It emphasizes the joy of the institution of the Eucharist, which was observed on Holy गुरुवार in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday.
In the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of the Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ.
it is also celebrated in some Anglican, Lutheran, and Old Catholic Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real उपस्थिति.
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday or, `` जहाँ the Solemnity of the सबसे Holy Body and रक्त of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation, it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most पावन Trinity as its proper day ''.
at the समाप्त of पावन Mass, वहीँ is प्रायः a बारात of the Blessed sacrament, generally displayed in a monstrance.
The procession is followed by Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic बारात is that presided over by the Pope प्रत्येक year in Rome, where it begins at the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran और makes its रास्ता to the Basilica of Saint Mary Major, जहाँ it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood, the levels of which rise in response to inflammation ( i.e. C-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of मुर्दे or dying cells ( and some types of bacteria ) in order to activate the complement प्रणाली via the C1Q complex.
CRP is synthesized by the liver in जवाब to factors released by macrophages और fat cells ( adipocytes ).
It is a member of the pentraxin family of प्रोटीन.
It is not related to C-peptide or protein C.
C-reactive protein was the first pattern recognition receptor ( PRR ) to be identified.
The start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas is typically दिनाँक to 1492, when a Spanish expedition headed by Christopher Columbus sailed लिये इण्डिया to खोलें trade but inadvertently discovered the Americas.
European conquest, large-scale exploration and colonization जल्द followed.
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied with many internal wars और was slowly recovering from the many मौतों कि the bubonic plague caused, the रैपिड expansion at which it grew in wealth और शक्ति was unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
The first रिझाने occurred along the caribbean coasts on the islands of Hispaniola, प्यूर्टो Rico और क्यूबा, और बाद 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America.
In 1497, sailing from the north on behalf of इंग्लैण्ड, John Cabot उतरा on the उत्तर अमरीकी coast, and a year later, Columbus 's third voyage reached the South American coast.
France founded colonies in much of eastern North America, on a क्रमांक of Caribbean islands, और in South America.
Portugal colonized ब्राज़ील.
Eventually, the entire पश्चिमी Hemisphere came under the control of यूरोपीय governments, leading to profound परिवर्तन to its landscape, population, and plant and animal life.
in the 19th century alone over 50 million people left Europe for the Americas.
The post-1492 era is known as the period of the Columbian एक्सचेंज.
कैथ Richards ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an English संगीतकार, singer-songwriter और founder member of the English rock band the रोलिंग Stones.
रोलिंग Stone magazine कहा Richards had निर्मित `` चट्टान 's greatest single body of riffs '', ranking उसे 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists.
Fourteen songs Richards लिखा साथ the Rolling Stones ' lead vocalist Mick Jagger हैं listed among रोलिंग Stone magazine 's `` 500 Greatest गीतों of All Time ``.
Richards ' notoriety लिये illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding his व्यसन to और eventual abstinence from heroin.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen group and is मिला in mammals, reptiles, birds, and अन्य vertebrates.
in mammals, testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the ovaries of females, हालांकि small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands.
It is the principal male sex hormone और an anabolic steroid.
In men, testosterone plays a कुंजी role in the development of male reproductive tissues such as the testis और prostate as well as promoting द्वितीयक sexual विशेषताएँ ऐसे as increased muscle, bone mass, और the growth of body hair.
In addition, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is essential for health and well-being as खूब as the रोकथाम of osteoporosis.
on औसत, in adult human males, the प्लाज्मा concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the concentration in adult इंसान females ' plasma, but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the रोज़ production is about 20 times वृहद in men.
महिलाओं also हैं more sensitive to the hormone.
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is observed in most vertebrates.
Fish make a slightly different form called 11-ketotestosterone.
Its counterpart in insects is ecdysone.
These ubiquitous steroids सुझाएँ that sex हार्मोन have an प्राचीन evolutionary history.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` natural '' but अपेक्षाकृत homogeneous groupings are evident in a statistical population.
it is often used in marketing research.
In इस technique, the total population is divided into these groups ( or clusters ) and a simple यादृच्छिक sample of the groups is selected.
Then the required information is collected इससे a simple random sample of the तत्व within प्रत्येक selected group.
This may be done लिये every element in these groups or a subsample of elements may be selected within each of ये groups.
A आम motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the total number of interviews and costs given the desired accuracy.
Assuming a fixed नमूना size, the तकनीक देता more accurate परिणाम when most of the विभिन्नता in the population is within the groups, not between them.
jamestown is a town in Guilford County, North Carolina, United राज्य, and is a suburb of the nearby शहरों of greensboro and ऊँची Point.
The population was 3,382 at the 2010 census.
Natalie पोर्टमैन ( born नताली Hershlag ; ; June 9, 1981 ) is an actress and model with डुअल American and Israeli citizenship.
Her first role was as an अनाथ taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action फिल्मी, but मुख्यधारा success came जब वो थी cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, she enrolled at Harvard University to study मनोविज्ञान while still working as an actress.
She completed her bachelor 's उपाधि in 2003.
In 2001, Portman opened in नई यॉर्क City 's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull.
In 2005, Portman received a nomination लिये the अकादमी Award for बेहतरीन supporting Actress and won the सुनहरी Globe पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer.
She won a Constellation Award for बेहतरीन Female Performance और a शनि पुरस्कार for Best Actress लिये her starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ).
She played leading roles in the historical dramas Goya 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and The अन्य Boleyn लड़की ( 2008 ).
in May 2008, she served as the youngest सदस्य of the 61st Annual कैन फिल्मी Festival jury.
Portman 's directorial डेब्यू, Eve, opened the 65th Venice International Film Festival 's shorts competition in 2008.
Portman directed a खण्ड of the collective film New York, I Love तुम.
in 2011, Portman won the Academy Award, the Golden ग्लोब Award, the BAFTA Award, the स्क्रीन Actors Guild Award, and the Independent Spirit पुरस्कार for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in ब्लैक swan.
Copper is a chemical element साथ the symbol Cu ( from ) and atomic number 29.
It is a ductile मेटल साथ बहुत high thermal और electrical conductivity.
pure copper is soft and malleable ; a freshly exposed surface has a reddish-orange color.
It is used as a कंडक्टर of heat and electricity, a building material, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
The metal and its alloys have been used for हज़ारों of years.
in the Roman era, copper was principally mined on Cyprus, hence the origin of the name of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल of Cyprus ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its यौगिकों are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts, which often impart ब्लू or green colors to खनिज such as azurite and turquoise and have been widely used historically as pigments.
Architectural structures built with copper corrode to दे green verdigris ( or patina ).
सजावटी आर्ट prominently features copper, both by itself and as part of pigments.
Copper is essential to सब living organisms as a trace dietary खनिज because it is a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the रक्त pigment hemocyanin, which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates.
the main areas जहाँ तांबे is found in vertebrates are liver, muscle and bone.
In sufficient concentration, copper compounds are poisonous to higher organisms and are used as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and wood preservatives.
The major professional sports leagues, or simply प्रमुख leagues, in the संयुक्त States and Canada are the highest पेशेवर competitions of team sports in the two countries.
Although individual sports such as golf, tennis, and auto racing are भी very popular, the term is usually सीमित to team खेल.
the term `` major league '' was पहला used in 1921 in reference to Major लीग Baseball ( MLB ), the शीर्ष level of professional American baseball.
Today, the प्रमुख northern North अमेरिका professional team खेल leagues हैं Major League Baseball ( MLB ), the National Basketball Association ( एनबीए ), the National Football League ( NFL ), और the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Other notable leagues शामिल Major League Soccer ( MLS ), the Canadian Football League ( cfl ), the Arena Football League, Major League Lacrosse, the National Lacrosse League and the महिलाओं 's National Basketball Association.
The NFL, MLB, NBA, and NHL are commonly referred to as the Big Four.
Each of these is the richest professional club competition in its sport worldwide.
the best players can become सांस्कृतिक icons in both countries और elsewhere in the world, because the leagues enjoy a significant प्लेस in लोकप्रिय culture in the US and कनाडा.
The एनएफएल has 32 टीमों, और the others have 30 each.
the विशाल majority of major league teams are concentrated in the most populous महानगर areas of the United राज्य.
Baseball, football, हॉकी, and सॉकर have had professional leagues for over 100 years ; early leagues such as the National Association, Ohio League, and National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern एमएलबी, NFL and NHL respectively.
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894, but लीग suffered greatly इससे कमी of स्थिरता and seldom lasted अधिक than a decade.
सॉकर 's महानतम successes were in the form of the American सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ), the original North American Soccer League ( 1968-1984 ), the National Professional Soccer लीग ( 1984-2001 ) और, currently, Major लीग Soccer ( 1996-present ).
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA evolved इससे the National Basketball League and its splinter group the Basketball संघ of America, taking on its current रूप in 1949.
Every major league averages 15,000 fans in attendance per game or उच्चतर as of 2011.
Meridian Altitude is an खगोलीय navigation method of calculating an observer 's latitude.
Earned मान management ( EVM ), or अर्जित value project/performance management ( EVPM ) is a project प्रबन्धन technique लिये measuring project performance और progress in an objective manner.
Because EVM रै the ability to combine माप of :
scope
अनुसूची
and cost,
in a single एकीकृत system, Earned Value Management is able to provide accurate forecasts of project performance problems, which is an important contribution for project management.
Early EVM research showed that the areas of planning and control are significantly impacted by its use ; and similarly, using the methodology improves both scope definition as well as the analysis of overall प्रोजेक्ट performance.
More हाल research अध्ययन have shown that the principles of evm are positive predictors of project success.
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years परे government contracting, in जिससे sector its importance continues to rise ( e.g., हाल new dfar नियम ), in भाग because EVM can also surface in and सहायता substantiate contract विवादों.
Colorful spring garden flowers
Spring is one of the four conventional temperate seasons, following winter and preceding summer.
There are various technical परिभाषाएं of spring, but local usage of the term varies according to local जलवायु, cultures and customs.
When it is spring in the northern hemisphere, it होगा be autumn in the southern hemisphere.
At the spring विषुव, days are close to 12 hours long with day length increasing as the ऋतु progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, and also to ideas of rebirth, rejuvenation, renewal, resurrection, and regrowth, with festivals such as Carnival, Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time.
Jamestown was a settlement in the Colony of Virginia, the first permanent English उपनिवेश in the Americas.
Established by the Virginia Company of लंदन as `` James Fort '' on may 14, 1607 ( O.S., may 24, 1607 N.S. ), it followed several पहले failed attempts, including the Lost Colony of Roanoke.
Jamestown served as the पूंजी of the colony लिये 83 years, from 1616 until 1699.
the settlement was located within the territory of a राजनैतिक entity ज्ञात as Tsenacommacah, the state of the Powhatan confederacy, with around 14,000 native inhabitants, and specifically थी in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe.
The natives initially सत्कार the colonists साथ नाचना, feasting and tobacco ceremonies, and they provided crucial provisions and support for the अस्तित्व of the colonists, who were नहीं agriculturally inclined, although relations with the newcomers also soured fairly जल्दी on, leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years.
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding, the Virginia Company brought Polish and Dutch colonists to help improve the settlement.
In 1619, the first documented Africans were brought to Jamestown, though the modern conception of slavery in the future United राज्य did not begin in Virginia until 1660.
When the colony was subdivided into the original आठ shires of वर्जिनिया in 1634, the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire.
the लंदन कम्पनी 's second उपनिवेश, Bermuda, claims to be the साईट of the oldest town in the English नई World, as St. George 's, Bermuda थी officially established ( as New London ) in 1612, whereas James Fort, in Virginia, was not to be converted into James towne जबतक 1619, and further did not survive into the present day.
In 1699, the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg, after जिससे Jamestown ceased to exist as a settlement, existing today only as an archaeological साईट.
Today, jamestown is one of तीन locations comprising the Historic Triangle of Colonial Virginia, along with Williamsburg and Yorktown, with two primary heritage sites.
Historic Jamestowne, the archaeological site on jamestown Island, is a cooperative effort by Jamestown नेशनल Historic साईट ( part of औपनिवेशिक National Historical Park ), and Preservation Virginia.
The Jamestown Settlement, a living history interpretive site, is operated by the jamestown Yorktown Foundation in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia.
James Christopher Frey ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an American writer.
His books A Million Little Pieces ( 2003 ) and my Friend Leonard ( 2005 ), as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ), were bestsellers.
he थी the subject of a scandal जब जांचकर्ताओं खोजा कि prison समय and the extent of certain injuries were exaggerated in A Million Little Pieces, a purportedly autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction.
Deere & Company, most commonly known by its नाम John Deere, is an अमरीकी corporation based in Moline, Illinois, and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world.
In 2012, it थी सूचीबद्ध as 97th in the सौभाग्य 500 अमेरिका 's ranking and 190th in the Fortune 500 Global ranking.
deere and Company agricultural products, sold under the जॉन Deere name, include tractors, combine harvesters, cotton harvesters, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and UTVs.
The company is also a manufacturer of निर्माण equipment and वानिकी equipment, as well as a supplier of diesel engines और drivetrains ( axles, transmissions, gearboxes ) प्रयुक्त in heavy equipment.
additionally, John deere manufactures equipment used in lawn, grounds, और turf care, such as walk-behind lawn mowers, zero-turn लॉन mowers, lawn tractors, और snowthrowers.
To support the core businesses, John Deere also provides financial services and other related activities.
the company 's slogan is `` nothing Runs Like a deere '' and has a चित्र of a leaping deer as a logo, a word play pun on `` nothing runs जैसे a deer ''.
कार्ल westby coined the phrase `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' for a विपणन campaign to बेचें snowmobiles.
the company 's उत्पाद are also identifiable by its distinctive shade of green paint, usually augmented by yellow trim.
The संयुक्त राज्य ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States करेंसी.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander हैमिल्टन, is फिलहाल featured on the obverse of the विधेयक, जबकि the U.S. राजकोष Building is featured on the रिवर्स.
( हैमिल्टन is one of two non-presidents प्रदर्शित on currently issued U.S. bills.
The other is Benjamin Franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is एक of only चार people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States, as he was इससे the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष Note ) ; and Robert मॉरिस, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter. )
All $ 10 बिल्स जारी today are संघीय Reserve Notes.
the ब्यूरो of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 विधेयक in circulation is 18 months पहले it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps.
the source of the फेस on the $ 10 bill is John trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait संग्रहण of New York City Hall.
the $ 10 विधेयक is the only U.S. पेपर currency in circulation in जिससे the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 विधेयक featured a portrait of Woodrow विल्सन facing to the left, लकिन थी प्रयुक्त तभी for intra-government transactions ).
Andy Samuel Griffith ( June 1, 1926 – July 3, 2012 ) was an American actor, television producer, Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel सिंगर, and लेखक.
He was a Tony पुरस्कार nominee लिये two roles, और gained prominence in the starring role in director Elia Kazan 's film a Face in the भीड ( 1957 ) before he became better known लिये his television roles, playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The एंडी Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock.
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin, ( née Raines ; born July 20, 1964 ) is an Australian -based, American -born naturalist, author, the widow of ऑस्ट्रेलियाई naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of ऑस्ट्रेलिया Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
She co-starred with her husband on the Crocodile Hunter, their unconventional television nature documentary श्रेणी साथ with इसके spin-off श्रेणी, क्रोक Files and The मगरमच्छ Hunter Diaries.
She has lived in ऑस्ट्रेलिया since 1992, when वो married Steve इरविन.
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the Copernican प्रणाली, from the Harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the Earth and planets revolve around a relatively stationary सूर्य at the center of the Solar प्रणाली.
The शब्द comes from the Greek ( helios `` सूर्य '' और kentron `` center '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, which placed the Earth at the center.
The notion that the Earth revolves around the सूर्य had been proposed as early as the 3rd सदी BC by Aristarchus of Samos, लकिन Aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted little attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it.
Lucio Russo, however, argues that this is a भ्रामक impression resulting from the loss of वैज्ञानिक works of the hellenistic Era.
Using indirect evidence he argues that a heliocentric view was expounded in Hipparchus 's work on gravity.
It was नहीं until the 16th सदी that a fully predictive गणितीय मॉडल of a heliocentric system was प्रस्तुत, by the पुनर्जागरण mathematician, astronomer, and Catholic cleric Nicolaus कोपरनिकस of Poland, leading to the Copernican Revolution.
In the following सदी, Johannes Kepler elaborated upon और expanded इस model to include अंडाकार orbits, and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of William Herschel, Friedrich Bessel, और others, astronomers realized that the sun was not the center of the ब्रह्मांड and by the 1920s Edwin Hubble था दिखाया that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was तभी one of many अरबों.
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar ; March 30, 1979 ) is an American singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
She is the daughter of Indian sitar player रवि Shankar and Sue Jones.
She is also Anoushka Shankar 's half-sister.
In 2002, she शुभारम्भ her solo music करियर साथ the release of the commercially successful and critically acclaimed album Come Away साथ Me, a fusion of country म्यूज़िक और pop with तत्व of jazz which was certified diamond album, selling over 26 million नक़ल.
The रिकार्ड earned Jones five Grammy पुरस्कार, सहित the Album of the Year, Record of the Year, and Best नई Artist.
Her subsequent studio एल्बम, Feels Like Home, released in 2004, Not too Late, released in 2007, the same year she made her film debut in My Blueberry Nights, and her 2009 release the पतन all gained Platinum status, selling over a million copies and were generally खूब received by critics.
Jones ' पांचवां studio album, Little Broken दिल, was released on April 27, 2012.
Jones has जीती nine ग्रैमी Awards and was 60th on Billboard magazine 's artists of the 2000–2009 decade chart.
Throughout her करियर, Jones has won numerous awards and रै sold अधिक than 50 million albums worldwide.
बिलबोर्ड named her the top jazz कलाकार of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be confused साथ Dimension of a physical quantity.
For other uses, see Dimension ( disambiguation ).
From बाएँ to right, the square, the cube, and the tesseract.
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional लाइनों, the cube by 2-dimensional areas, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
A projection of the cube is given since it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
The same applies to the tesseract, which additionally can तभी be दिखाया as a projection भी in three-dimensional space.
A diagram showing the first four spatial dimensions.
in physics and गणित, the dimension of a स्पेस or ऑब्जेक्ट is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to बताएँ any point भीतर it.
Thus a line has a dimension of one क्युकी only one coordinate is needed to specify a point on it ( लिये example, the point at 5 on a number लकीर ).
A surface such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere रै a dimension of two because two coordinates are needed to specify a point on it ( for example, to locate a point on the सतह of a sphere you need दोनो इसके latitude and its longitude ).
The inside of a cube, a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional because three निर्देशांक are needed to locate a पाइंट within ये spaces.
In physical terms, आयाम refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) और its स्थिति in time ( आभास as a अदिश dimension along the t-axis ), as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle and फ़ील्ड conceptions, interact according to relative properties of द्रव्यमान —and हैं fundamentally mathematical in description.
These, or other axes, may be referenced to uniquely identify a point or structure in इसके attitude और relationship to other objects and occurrences.
शारीरिक theories that incorporate time, such as general आपेक्षिकता, are said to कार्य in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( defined as a Minkowski space ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' including quantum field and string theories.
The state-space of quantum mechanics is an infinite-dimensional function space.
The अवधारणा of आयाम is not restricted to physical वस्तुएँ.
High-dimensional स्पेसेस occur in mathematics and the sciences for many reasons, frequently as configuration spaces such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian यांत्रिकी ; ये are abstract spaces, independent of the physical space we सजीव in.
fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 residents in San Bernardino County, California.
Founded in 1913, it remained essentially ग्रामीण जबतक World War ii, जब entrepreneur Henry J. Kaiser built a large steel मिल in the क्षेत्रफल.
It is now a regional हब of the trucking industry, with Interstate 10 and राज्य Route 210 transecting the city from ईस्ट to west, and Interstate 15 passing diagonally through its northwestern quadrant.
It is home to the largest of the San bernardino County system libraries, a renovated ऐतिहासिक theater, a municipal park, and the स्वचालित Club Speedway on the site of the Kaiser स्टील Mill.
Fontana भी hosts the Fontana दिनों Half Marathon और 5K run.
This race is the fastest half-marathon course in the world.
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana 's population was 200,762 in 2012, making it the second most populous city in San Bernardino county काउंटी and 14th in the state.
Cowboys Stadium is a स्टेडियम साथ a retractable roof in Arlington, Texas.
It serves as the घर of the National फ़ुटबॉल League 's Dallas Cowboys.
it replaced the partially covered टेक्सास Stadium, which opened in 1971, and served as the Cowboys ' home through the 2008 season.
It was समाप्त on May 27, 2009.
The stadium seats 85,000, making it the third largest stadium in the NFL by seating capacity.
The maximum क्षमता of the stadium, including standing room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are पीछे seats in each end मण्डल and on a श्रेणी of six elevated platforms connected by stairways.
It has the world 's largest column-free interior and the fourth largest high definition video स्क्रीन, which hangs from 20 यार्ड line to 20 यार्ड लकीर.
the सुविधा can also be used for a variety of other activities outside of its main purpose ( पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल ) such as concerts, basketball games, boxing matches, college फ़ुटबॉल and high school football contests, soccer matches, and motocross races.
Canadian historians until the 1980s tended to focus on economic history, including labour history.
In part this is क्युकी कनाडा has had far fewer political or military conflicts than अन्य societies.
This was विशेषकर सच्चा in the first हाफ of the twentieth century when economic history was overwhelmingly dominant.
Many of the most prominent English Canadian historians from this काल यहूद आर्थिक इतिहासकारों, ऐसे as हेरोल्ड Innis, Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were वारिस to the traditions that developed in Europe and the United राज्य, लकिन frameworks that worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada.
The heavily Marxist influenced economic इतिहास that dominates Europe has छोटी relevance to most of Canadian history.
A focus on class, urban areas, and उद्योग fails to address Canada 's rural and resource based economy.
Similarly, the monetarist स्कूल that is dominant in the United States also has been difficult to transfer north of the border.
the study of आर्थिक history in Canada became highly focused on economic भूगोल, and for many years the प्रबल school of thought has been the staples thesis.
This school of thought bases the study of the Canadian economy on the study of natural resources.
This approach has since also become used outside of Canada in Australia and in many developing nations.
Before the आगमन of europeans, the First राष्ट्र of what would become कनाडा had a large and vibrant व्यापार संजाल.
Furs, tools, decorative items, and other goods were often transported thousands of किलोमीटर, ज़्यादातर by canoe throughout the many rivers and झीलों of the region.
The early European history of the Canadian economy is usually studied through the स्टेपल्स लेख जिससे argues the Canadian economy developed through the exploitation of a श्रेणी of staples that would be exported to Europe.
Carbon-14, 14C, or radiocarbon, is a रेडियोसक्रिय समस्थानिक of carbon with a केंद्रक containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its उपस्थिति in organic सामग्री is the आधार of the radiocarbon dating method pioneered by Willard Libby and colleagues ( 1949 ) to तिथि archaeological, geological and hydrogeological नमूने.
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940, by Martin कामेन और Sam रूबेन at the University of California Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley, although its अस्तित्व had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934.
There हैं three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, and carbon-14 occurs in ट्रेस amounts, i.e., बनाना up about 1 part per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the कार्बन in the atmosphere.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years.
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta decay.
The प्राथमिक natural source of carbon-14 on Earth is cosmic ray action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere, and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide.
however, open-air nuclear testing between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool.
The अलग isotopes of carbon do not differ appreciably in उनके रासायनिक properties.
This is used in chemical and biological research, in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to replace nonradioactive कार्बन, in order to ट्रेस chemical and biochemical reactions involving कार्बन atoms from any given organic compound.
बिजली is a highly visible form of energy transfer
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a massive scale between the atmosphere और an earth-bound object.
वे ज़्यादातर originate in thunderclouds and terminate on the मैदान, called Cloud to Ground ( CG ) बिजली.
However, they may also be initiated from a बहुत tall grounded ऑब्जेक्ट और reach into the clouds.
Although `` a lightning strike '' is commonly प्रयुक्त to describe all lightning, it is rather erroneous and a misnomer, as तभी about 25 % of all lightning events worldwide हैं CG, the large bulk of lightning events are intracloud ( IC ) or बादल to बादल ( CC ), where discharge तभी occurs high in the atmosphere.
the वैज्ञानिक नाम for the complete process of a single lightning इवेंट is a and it is a very complex, multiple stepped interaction, which is नहीं completely understood.
सबसे CG flashes तभी `` strike '' one physical location, referred to as a termination.
The primary conducting channel, the bright coursing लाइट you may देखिए and call a `` स्ट्राइक '', is only परिचय 1 inch in व्यास, हालांकि to our eyes it looks much larger.
They हैं miles long, upwards of tens of miles.
And the entire फ्लैश, lasts only a few fractions of a second, most of which is not visible to human आँखें.
Thunder is always produced by lightning.
बस like lightning, that deceives हमारी eyes, usually looking larger or closer than it really is, the धरती 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the outside world, ultimately determines whether it is `` सुना '' or not.
Lightning can not happen in a वैक्यूम devoid of ions, nor can थंडर occur without molecules to vibrate.
Thunder is a physical absolute for every single flash of lightning.
Contrary to popular belief, a lightning strike itself is usually not responsible लिये multiple deaths or injuries from a single event.
It होता be नामुमकिन given the प्राकृतिक tendencies of a flash, unless लोगों or animals were stacked on top of each other, or they यहूद somehow arranged खड़ा and part of the flash channel.
When lightning ignites an available fuel सोर्स and an explosion occurs, it is the शॉक wave or fire causing the injuries, not the स्ट्राइक itself.
Ground Currents, also called step potential, of an धरती termination is कया truly causes सबसे injuries or death to humans and animals.
The near instantaneous rush of surface charges, induced by the overhead thundercloud itself, race to the strike point from hundreds to हज़ारों of feet away during discharge.
This current, caused during each stroke, takes the path of least resistance, which may be ion rich human or एनिमल legs, over poorly conducting धरती.
This is क्यों it is best to crouch, with फीट close together, if कभी caught in the open दौरान a thunderstorm.
Unfortunately, most reports do नहीं draw a distinction between the real cause of injury or मौत, be it the strike itself, a resulting explosion or fire, or प्रायः responsible step potential.
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the current Attorney सामान्य of Rhode Island.
Kilmartin is also a retired police captain and a former member of the Rhode Island House of Representatives.
A couple following their विवाह in the Manti Utah टेम्पल.
Sealing is an ordinance ( अनुष्ठान ) performed in Latter दिन Saints मंदिरों by a person holding the sealing authority.
The purpose of this ordinance is to मुहर familiar relationships, बनाना संभावित the existence of परिवार relationships throughout eternity.
lds teachings place great importance on the specific authority required to perform these sealings.
गिरिजाघर doctrine teaches that this authority, पुकारा the Priesthood, corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in.
Sealings are typically performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents.
वे were performed prior to the death of Joseph स्मिथ, Jr. ( the main founder of the latter दिन Saint movement ), and are currently performed in The Church of यीशु मसीह of Latter-day Saints.
Although some other denominations, such as the Community of Christ, दृश्य sealing as an artifact of Smith 's practice of plural marriage, some do still perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two thousands '', was a decade that began on जनवरी 1, 2000, और ended on December 31, 2009.
Globalization, which had accelerated after the early 1990s पतन of communism, जारी to be a force in the 2000s.
The विकास of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to globalization during the decade, making it possible for people to interact with other लोगों, express ideas, introduce others to different cultures and backgrounds, use goods and services, sell and ख़रीदे online, research और learn about things, साथ with experiencing the संसार बगैर having to leave home.
The institutions, linkages और technologies that emerged or were redefined earlier would subsequently in this decade benefit many देशों, in particular China and India.
However, in other भाग of the संसार ऐसे progress failed to address ongoing struggles with modernity, most notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist समूह.
The सितंबर 11 attacks in 2001 led to the संयुक्त States, United Kingdom, स्पेन, Canada and other nations invading Afghanistan, as well as implementing various anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what थी ज्ञात as the War on Terror.
The European Union देखी further संयोजन and विस्तार throughout much of Europe.
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable पर्यावरणीय consequences, raised माँग for diminishing उर्जा resources, and was स्टिल shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the वैश्विक Financial Crisis of the late 2000s.
The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral was a gunfight that took place at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 26, 1881, in Tombstone, Arizona Territory, and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the अमरीकी Old वेस्ट.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted तभी about thirty सेकेंड, was fought between the outlaw cowboys Billy Claiborne, आइक and Billy Clanton, और Tom and Frank McLaury, and the opposing town Marshal Virgil earp and उसके brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and अस्थाई lawman Wyatt, aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary मार्शल by Virgil.
Ike Clanton and Billy Claiborne भागा from the fight unharmed, but आइक 's brother Billy Clanton was killed, along with both McLaurys.
Lawmen Virgil और Morgan Earp and Doc Holliday were wounded.
Only Wyatt earp आए through the fight unharmed.
The fight has आइये to represent a time in American इतिहास when the frontier was open range for outlaws opposed by law enforcement that was spread पतला over विशाल territories, leaving some क्षेत्रों unprotected.
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has since been determined to be a largely fictionalized जीवनी, Wyatt Earp : Frontier Marshal, two years after Earp 's death.
झील retold his स्टोरी in a 1946 book that director John Ford developed into the movie My darling Clementine.
After the movie gunfight at the O.K. Corral was released in 1957, the shootout came to be known by that name.
चूंकि तब, the conflict has been portrayed with varying डिग्री of accuracy in numerous पश्चिमी films and किताबे.
despite its name, the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot six doors west of the पश्च entrance to the o.k. Corral on fremont गली, और भी in the street.
The two opposing parties were initially only about अलावा.
About thirty shots यहूद fired in thirty seconds.
Ike Clanton filed murder charges विरूद्ध the Earps and दस्तावेज़ Holliday but they यहूद eventually exonerated by a local judge after a 30-day प्रारंभिक सुनना and then again by a local grand जूरी.
On December 28, 1881, Virgil Earp was maimed in an हत्या attempt by the outlaw cowboys, and on March 18, 1882, they assassinated Morgan Earp.
The suspects furnished solid alibis, and newly appointed Deputy U.S. मार्शल व्याट Earp took matters into उसके own hands during the Earp Vendetta Ride, ironically धड़ा by county शेरिफ Johnny behan with warrants लिये the Earp 's गिरफ़्तार.
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a कॉम्पैक्ट audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed video आंकड़ा and compressed/uncompressed digital audio data इससे a hdmi-compliant device ( `` the source device '' ) to a compatible computer monitor, वीडियो projector, digital television, or digital audio device.
HDMI is a डिजिटल replacement for मौजूदा analog video standards.
There are a number of hdmi-standard cable connectors available, each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format, including standard, enhanced, ऊँची definition, and 3d video signals ; up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a cec ( Consumer Electronics कंट्रोल ) connection ; and an Ethernet data connection.
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards, which define video formats and waveforms, transport of compressed, uncompressed, and LPCM audio, auxiliary data, और implementations of the VESA EDID.
the CEC allows HDMI devices to कंट्रोल each other when necessary and allows the उपयोक्ता to operate multiple devices with one remote control handset.
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 signals used by digital visual interface ( DVI ), no सिग्नल परिवर्तन is necessary, nor is वहीँ a loss of video quality when a dvi-to-hdmi adapter is used.
as an uncompressed CEA-861 connection, hdmi is स्वतंत्र of the various digital television standards used by individual devices, such as atsc and DVB, as ये हैं encapsulations of compressed MPEG video streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ).
Production of consumer HDMI उत्पाद started in लेट 2003.
in Europe either dvi-hdcp or HDMI is included in the HD तैयार in-store labeling specification for TV sets for HDTV, formulated by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005.
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV camcorders and digital still cameras in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, which is ten years after the release of the first HDMI specification, over 3 billion HDMI डिवाइस have shipped since the लॉन्च of the hdmi standard.
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also known in the series as Bree Hodge and Bree Weston ) is a fictional character और one of the four protagonists on the ABC television श्रेणी Desperate Housewives.
She is played by actress Marcia Cross, who has received multiple awards and nominations for her portrayal, including an Emmy Award nomination, three Golden ग्लोब Award nominations, and two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely praised by आलोचकों and fans.
Cross originally auditioned for the भूमिका of मरियम ऐलिस Young, but series creator Marc Cherry thought she was better suited for the role of Bree.
दाना Delany, who eventually was cast as Katherine Mayfair, was originally चुनी for the भूमिका but turned it down, saying it was too similar to उसके role in Pasadena.
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been उसके attempts to maintain a perfect life despite various obstacles ऐसे as widowhood, divorce, and alcoholism hindering उसके.
She has been married three times ; to Rex Van de Kamp ( स्टीवन Culp ), orson होज ( Kyle maclachlan ) and Trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ).
See also the Town of Algoma in Winnebago County, Wisconsin.
See also Algoma ( Disambiguation ).
Algoma is a नगर in Kewaunee County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.
The population was 3,167 at the 2010 census.
Algoma is part of the Green खाड़ी महानगर Statistical Area.
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 अमरीकी comedy film produced by Legendary Pictures और distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures.
It is the sequel to 2009 's the hangover and the दूसरी film in The Hangover franchise.
Todd Phillips directed the फिल्मी in addition to co-authoring the script साथ Craig mazin, और scot आर्मस्ट्रांग.
The film stars Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis, Ken Jeong, Jeffrey Tambor, Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti.
the Hangover Part ii tells the story of फिल, Stu, Alan, and Doug as वे travel to थाईलैंड for Stu 's wedding.
After the bachelor party in लास वेगास, Stu takes no chances and opts लिये a safe, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do not go as planned, resulting in another bad hangover साथ no memories of the previous night.
Development of The Hangover भाग ii began in April 2009, two months before the Hangover was released.
The principal actors were cast in March 2010 to reprise their roles from the first film.
Production began in अक्तूबर 2010, in Ontario, California, पहले चलती on स्थान in Thailand.
the film was released on May 26, 2011 and, despite receiving mostly negative reviews from critics, it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy दौरान its theatrical run.
A third film is set for on may 24, 2013.
Young Man Among Roses, portrait miniature by Nicholas Hilliard, 1588, v & A.
Believed to be the Earl of एसेक्स
The Ditchley पोर्ट्रेट of Elizabeth I by the foreign Marcus Gheeraerts the younger, c.1592
the English Renaissance was a cultural and artistic movement in इंग्लैण्ड dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century.
It is associated with the pan-european Renaissance that is usually regarded as beginning in इटली in the late 14th century.
Like most of northern Europe, England saw little of ये developments until अधिक than a century later.
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, when the Battle of Bosworth Field ended the Wars of the Roses और inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty.
Renaissance style and ideas, however, were slow in penetrating England, and the Elizabethan era in the second half of the 16th century is usually regarded as the height of the अंग्रेज़ी Renaissance.
Elizabeth Ann bloomer Warren `` Betty '' घाट ( April 8, 1918 – July 8, 2011 ), was First महिला of the United States from 1974 to 1977 दौरान the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford.
As First Lady, she थी active in social policy और created precedents as a नीतियां active presidential wife.
Throughout her husband 's term in office, वो maintained ऊँची स्वीकृति ratings despite opposition from कुछ conservative Republicans who objected to उसके more moderate and liberal स्थितियाँ on social issues.
घाट थी noted for raising breast cancer awareness following her 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate supporter of, and activist लिये, the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ).
pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the महिलाओं 's Movement, she gained कीर्ति as one of the most candid first महिलाओं in history, commenting on every hot-button issue of the time, including नारीवाद, equal अदा, the ERA, sex, drugs, abortion, and gun control.
She also उठाया awareness of व्यसन when वो announced her long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s.
following her श्वेत House years, she continued to lobby for the era and remained active in the feminist movement.
वो was the संस्थापक, and served as the first chair of the board of निर्देशकों, of the Betty Ford Center for substance abuse और addiction and is a recipient of the congressional Gold Medal ( co-presentation with उसके husband, Gerald R. Ford, October 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone, presented 1991, by George H. W. Bush ).
platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( pecam-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a protein that in human is encoded by the PECAM1 gene मिला on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a कुंजी role in निकालना aged neutrophils from the body.
Jessica Rafalowski, Miss Florida USA 2008
Jenna Edwards, Miss फ्लोरिडा USA 2007
Melissa Witek, Miss Florida USA 2005
Kristen Berset, Miss फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2004
The Miss फ्लोरिडा यूएसए competition is the pageant that selects the representative लिये the state फ्लोरिडा in the Miss यूएसए pageant.
जबकि Florida has महरूम successful in terms of runners-up, finalists और semi-finalists, the state has never won the मिस USA pageant, although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock जीती Miss Universe.
फ्लोरिडा 's best results were during the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
Their most recent finalist was lissette Garcia who placed in the शीर्ष 16 in 2011.
Two former Miss Florida Teen USA titleholders have won this competition, and three titleholders have also competed at Miss America.
the current titleholder is Michelle Aguirre of Hialeah.
anglo-saxon इंग्लैण्ड refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became known as England, lasting from the end of Roman occupation and स्थापना of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th सदी until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror.
Anglo-Saxon is a general पद referring to the germanic peoples who came to Britain during the 5th and 6th centuries, including Angles, Saxons, Frisii, और jutes.
the पद also refers to the language spoken at the time in England, which is अभी पुकारा बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी, and to the culture of the era, which has long attracted लोकप्रिय and scholarly attention.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy, the kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia, East Anglia, Essex, Kent, Sussex, and Wessex.
In शर्तें of धर्म the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism during the जल्दी period, but converted to Christianity during the 7th century.
paganism had a final stronghold in a period of Mercian आधिपत्य during the 640s, ending with the death of पेंदा of mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of Viking invasions, the House of Wessex became dominant during the 9th century, under the rule of Alfred the Great.
दौरान the 10th सदी, the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of Wessex into the Kingdom of England, which stood opposed to the Danelaw, the Viking kingdoms स्थापित from the 9th century in the north and east of England.
The Kingdom of England fell in the Viking आक्रमण from डेनमार्क in 1013 and was ruled by the House of डेनमार्क until 1042, जब the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored.
The पिछला Anglo-Saxon king, Harold Godwinson, थी killed in 1066 at the बैटल of Hastings.
Lighting a traditional red brick John Ross Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a तैयारी of salmon, typically a fillet कि has been cured and hot or cold smoked.
due to its moderately high price, smoked salmon is considered a कोमलता.
Although the term lox is sometimes applied to smoked salmon, they are अलग products.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड position and placement.
Defibrillation is a common उपचार for life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of electrical energy to the प्रभावित heart with a यंत्र पुकारा a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device used or needed.
Some external units, ज्ञात as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable लय, meaning that lay responders or bystanders हैं able to उपयोग उन्हें successfully with little, or in कुछ cases no training at all.
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August 19, 1883 – January 10, 1971 ) थी a French fashion designer and founder of the चैनल brand.
She थी the only fashion designer to appear on समय magazine 's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.
साथ with Paul Poiret, चैनल was credited with liberating महिलाओं इससे the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' and popularizing the acceptance of a sportive, कैज़ुअल chic as the feminine standard in the post- संसार War i era.
A सफल fashion creator, Chanel 's influence extended परे couture कपडे.
Her design aesthetic was realized in jewelry, हैंडबैग, and महक.
Her हस्ताक्षर scent, Chanel No. 5, रै become an iconic product.
Chanel was known for her lifelong determination, ambition and उर्जा which she applied to उसके पेशेवर and social life.
वो achieved both success as a businesswoman and social prominence thanks to the connections she बना through her कार्य.
ये शामिल many artists and craftspeople to whom वो became a संरक्षक.
however, Chanel 's अत्यधिक competitive, opportunistic व्यक्तित्व led her to make questionable life choices which have generated controversy around her reputation, particularly her behaviour during the German occupation of France in World War II.
Allied Mills flour mill on the banks of the Manchester Ship Canal
A gristmill ( also : grist mill, मकई mill or आटा mill ) grinds grain into flour.
The पद can refer to both the पीस mechanism and the building that holds it.
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country located at the intersection of Central and Southeastern Europe, bordering on the Black Sea.
Romania साझा a border with Hungary and Serbia to the west, Ukraine and Moldova to the northeast and ईस्ट, और Bulgaria to the south.
At, Romania is the आठवीं largest country of the European Union by area, and has the seventh largest population of the European Union with more than 19 million लोगों.
Its capital and biggest नगर is Bucharest, the 11th largest city in the EU.
The United principalities emerged when the territories of Moldavia and wallachia were united under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859.
In 1866 Prince karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was पुकारा to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian Principate and in 1881 he was आखिरकार crowned as King Carol i the first monarch of the किंगडम of Romania.
स्वतंत्रता from the Ottoman Empire was घोषित on 9 May 1877, and was internationally recognized the following year.
At the end of संसार War I, Transylvania, Bukovina and Bessarabia united with the Kingdom of Romania.
World War ii gave cause to the rise of a सैन्य dictatorship in Romania under fascist सामान्य Ion Antonescu, who chose to fight on the side of the Axis शक्तियां इससे 1941 to 1944.
After उसके removal, Romania switched sides in 1944 और joined the allies.
By the end of the war, some formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied by the Soviet Union, with Red Army units stationed on Romanian मृदा.
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a People 's Republic ( 1947-1965 ) और a सदस्य of the Warsaw अनुबंध.
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General सचिव of the Romanian Communist पार्टी, and the हर्ष austerity measures, political repression, and cult of personality he implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist पुलिस state in the Eastern bloc.
आखिरकार his सत्तावादी सरकारी was toppled in December 1989 during the Romanian Revolution of 1989.
With the पतन of the Iron Curtain, रोमानिया began its परिवर्तन towards democracy और a capitalist market अर्थव्यवस्था.
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems और living-standards decline, extensive reforms fostered economic recovery.
as of 2010, Romania is an upper-middle-income country with a high human development अनुक्रमणिका.
Romania joined नाटो on 29 March 2004, and the European Union on 1 January 2007.
it is also a member of the : लैटिन संघ, Francophonie, OSCE, WTO, BSEC, संयुक्त Nations, इत्यादि.
Today, Romania is a unitary semi-presidential republic, in जिससे the executive branch consists of the President और the Government.
`` Ancient '' redirects here.
लिये other uses, see प्राचीनता ( disambiguation ).
The times पहले writing belong either to protohistory or to प्रागितिहास.
Khafre 's Pyramid ( 4th dynasty ) और Great Sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 bc or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the पढ़ाई of the written past from the beginning of recorded human history to the Early Middle Ages.
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years, साथ Cuneiform script, the oldest discovered रूप of coherent writing, from the protoliterate काल around the 30th century BC.
इस is the beginning of history, as opposed to prehistory, according to the definition used by सबसे historians.
The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to इतिहास in the बूढ़ा World from the beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 BC ( पहला ओलंपियाड ).
This roughly coincides with the traditional date of the founding of रोम in 753 BC, the beginning of the इतिहास of ancient Rome, and the beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece.
हालांकि the ending date of ancient history is disputed, some Western scholars use the fall of the पश्चिमी रोमन Empire in 476 AD, the closure of the Platonic अकादमी in 529 AD, the death of the emperor जुस्तिनियन I, the coming of Islam or the वृद्धि of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history.
In इण्डिया, the period includes the जल्दी period of the Middle Kingdoms, and, in China, the time up to the Qin Dynasty is शामिल.
methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a रूप of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12, occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent समाधान in water.
विटामिन b12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a कुंजी role in the normal functioning of the दिमाग और बेचैन system, and for the formation of blood.
It is one of the eight b विटामिन.
it is normally शामिल in the metabolism of every कोशिका of the human body, especially affecting डीएनए synthesis and regulation, but भी fatty acid synthesis और energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor animals are capable of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its संश्लेषण, हालांकि अनेक foods हैं a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The विटामिन is the largest and सबसे structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin b12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), all of which have विटामिन activity.
It contains the biochemically rare तत्व cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन conversion between अलग forms of the विटामिन can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in nature, लकिन is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in अनेक pharmaceuticals and supplements, and as a food additive, because of इसके stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
The extra utility of these is फिलहाल debated.
Vitamin B12 was खोजा from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the stomach responsible लिये secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic फ़ैक्टर is crucial for the सामान्य absorption of b12, so a lack of intrinsic factor, as seen in pernicious रक्ताल्पता, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of विटामिन B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since महरूम elucidated.
the Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient रोमन civilization, characterised by an autocratic रूप of government और large territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in Europe, Africa, और Asia.
the 500-year-old Roman Republic, जिससे preceded it, had महरूम destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the transition इससे गणतंत्र to साम्राज्य, सहित जूलियस Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the रोमन सीनेट ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the साम्राज्य were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity ज्ञात as the pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
it reached its महानतम expanse दौरान the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis कि threatened its existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors aurelian और diocletian.
ईसाइयों rose to power in the 4th सदी, during जिससे time a system of dual rule was developed in the लैटिन West और Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century, the पूर्वी half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine साम्राज्य.
Because of the साम्राज्य 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, धर्म, वास्तुकला, philosophy, law, and forms of government in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total देह surface area ( TBSA ) is an मूल्यांकन measure of burns of the skin.
In adults, the `` नियम of nines '' is प्रयुक्त to determine the कुल percentage of क्षेत्रफल burned for each प्रमुख section of the देह.
In कुछ cases, the burns may cover more than एक body part, or may not fully कवर ऐसे a part ; in ये cases, burns are measured by using the casualty 's ताड़ as a reference पाइंट for 1 % of the body.
For children और infants, the lund-browder chart is used to assess the burned देह surface area.
Different percentages are used because the ratio of the संयुक्त surface area of the head and neck to the surface area of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an adult.
Typical values for common groups of humans follow.
( Due to rounding, values may not add to 100 %. )
World infant मृत्यु rates by पाँच सालो averages in 2008.
This is a list of countries by infant मृत्यु rate.
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26, 1975 ), better known by उसके stage name KJ-52, is a ईसाई rapper from Tampa, Florida.
the `` kj '' भाग of his name refers to his old rap alias, `` King J. Mac, '' a name which he later described in one of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` five two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a सन्दर्भ to the Biblical स्टोरी of यीशु feeding the multitude with five loaves और two fish, which is also सुंग about in his song `` Push Up '' from The Yearbook and in the `` KJ पाँच Two '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two.
He थी awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the साल for `` Never Look Away '' and Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year at the GMA dove Awards of 2007.
on July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` End of My Rope '', which is the पहला सिंगल for his album Five-Two Television.
His song `` Dear Slim '' is आधारित on Eminem 's song `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal message from KJ-52 to Eminem.
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is used, among अन्य things, to represent डिग्री of arc ( e.g. in geographic coordinate systems ), hours ( in the medical फ़ील्ड ), or degrees of temperature.
The symbol consists of a small raised वृत्त, historically a zero glyph.
In Unicode it is encoded at.
This is a list of जड़ें, suffixes, and prefixes used in medical terminology, their meanings, and their etymology.
There हैं a few rules when using चिकित्सा roots.
firstly, prefixes and प्रत्यय, primarily in Greek, लकिन भी in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
As a general नियम, this -o- almost always अधिनियमों as a joint-stem to कनेक्ट two consonantal जड़ें, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
लकिन generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = arthritis, instead of arthr-o-itis.
Secondly, medical roots generally go together according to language : यूनानी prefixes go with Greek प्रत्यय और Latin prefixes साथ Latin suffixes.
Although international वैज्ञानिक vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining forms of different languages, it is advisable जब coining new words not to मिक्सर different lingual roots.
Stomach कर्कट, or gastric cancer, refers to कर्कट arising from any part of the stomach.
Stomach cancer कल्याणकारी about 800,000 मौतों विश्वव्यापी per year.
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) because most patients उपस्थित with advanced बीमारी.
Sara Lynn Evans ( born February 5, 1971 ) is an American country सिंगर and songwriter.
लिये उसके संपूर्ण करियर, वो has महरूम signed to RCA Records नैशविले.
Evans ' डेब्यू, Three Chords and the Truth, किया not produce a शीर्ष 40 hit on the Hot देश Songs charts.
She followed this up with No Place That Far ( 1998 ), Born to Fly ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ).
No Place That Far received a सुनहरा certification इससे the Recording उद्योग Association of America ( riaa ), while the अन्य three albums all were certified platinum.
These discs include the क्रमांक 1 singles `` No प्लेस That Far ``, `` Born to Fly ``, `` Suds in the Bucket `` and `` A Real Fine Place to Start ``, plus the top 10 हिट्स `` I could नहीं Ask for अधिक `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ), `` I Keep looking ``, `` Perfect `` और `` cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the top 15 hits `` You 'll सदा Be My baby `` and `` As If ``.
stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth क्रमांक 1 hit, `` A Little Bit Stronger ``, जिससे थी co-written by Hillary Scott of Lady Antebellum.
Evans has also जीती one पुरस्कार each from Billboard, the Academy of Country Music, देश Music Association, ब्रॉडकास्ट Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a dove Award.
The world 's प्रिंसिपल religions and spiritual traditions may be वर्गीकृत into a small number of major groups, although this is by no means a uniform practice.
This theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the relative स्तर of civility in societies.
berliners watching a c-54 land at tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) थी one of the first major international crises of the Cold War.
दौरान the multinational occupation of post–World युद्ध II Germany, the Soviet Union अवरोधित the Western allies ' railway, सड़क, and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Allied कंट्रोल.
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the सोवियत zone to प्रारंभ supplying बर्लिन साथ food and fuel, thereby giving the soviets practical control over the entire city.
In response, the Western Allies व्यवस्थित the Berlin airlift to carry supplies to the people in West Berlin.
Aircrews इससे the United States Air Force, the अंग्रेजों Royal Air फ़ोर्स, the Royal Australian Air Force, the Royal Canadian Air Force, the Royal New Zealand Air Force, and the South African Air फ़ोर्स उड़ाया over 200,000 flights in one year, providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities ऐसे as fuel and food to the Berliners.
By the spring of 1949, the effort was clearly succeeding और, by April, the airlift was delivering more कार्गो than had previously been transported into the city by रेल.
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought embarrassment to the Soviets who had refused to believe it could मेक a difference.
the blockade was lifted in may 1949 and resulted in the सृष्टि of two पृथक जर्मनी states.
The Federal Republic of Germany ( West जर्मनी ) and the German Democratic Republic ( East जर्मनी ) विभाजित up Berlin.
In स्मरण of the एयरलिफ्ट, तीन एयरपोर्ट in the former western zones of the city served as the primary gateways to जर्मनी for another fifty सालो.
the euro sign ; logotype and handwritten.
The euro sign is the currency sign used for the euro, the आधिकारिक currency of the eurozone in the European Union ( EU ).
The design was presented to the पब्लिक by the यूरोपीय Commission on 12 December 1996.
The international three-letter कोड ( according to ISO standard ISO 4217 ) for the euro is EUR.
In Unicode it is encoded at.
In English, the चिह्न precedes the value.
In कुछ styleguides, but not others, the euro sign is unspaced.
mate (, ; sometimes also spelled maté ), भी ज्ञात as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a traditional South American infused drink, विशेषकर in Argentina, Uruguay, पैराग्वे and the southern states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile, the Bolivian Chaco, सीरियाई and Lebanon.
It is prepared from steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, known in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot water.
Mate is served with a metal straw from a shared hollow calabash gourd.
The स्ट्रॉ is called a bombilla in some Latin American countries, a bomba in Portuguese, and a bombija or, more generally, a masassa ( type of straw ) in अरबी.
The straw is traditionally made of silver.
Modern, commercially उपलब्धियाँ straws are typically बना of निकल silver, called Alpaca ; stainless steel, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil, it has the specific name of cuia, or भी cabaça ( the नाम for indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of Brazil, स्टिल used for general खाना and drink in remote regions ).
Even if the water is supplied इससे a modern thermos, the infusion is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias.
as with other brewed herbs, yerba mate leaves are dried, chopped, and मैदान into a powdery मिश्रण पुकारा yerba.
The bombilla acts as दोनो a straw and a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, with small holes or slots that allow the brewed liquid in, लकिन block the चंकी पदार्थ कि makes up much of the mixture.
A modern bombilla design uses a straight tube with holes, or वसन्त sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have been on the market in अर्जेंटीना, Paraguay and Uruguay for many years under ऐसे trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina, `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in पैराग्वे, and in Brazil अंतर्गत the name `` Mate Leão ''.
This is considered a completely different drink.
It is never drunk from cuias or called chimarrão, nor is it associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
The ऑटोमोटिव industry is a term that कवर a wide range of companies and organisations involved in the design, development, manufacture, marketing, and selling of motor vehicles, towed vehicles, motorcycles और mopeds.
it is one of the world 's most महत्वपूर्ण economic sectors by revenue.
The पद automotive उद्योग usually does not include industries समर्पित to the maintenance of automobiles following delivery to the end-user, such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations.
The term ऑटोमोटिव was निर्मित इससे Greek autos ( स्वः ), and Latin motivus ( of motion ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle.
This term was proposed by SAE member Elmer Sperry.
David Michael `` Dave '' bautista, Jr. ( born January 18, 1969 ), is an American mixed martial artist, bodybuilder, कर्ता, और पूर्व professional wrestler best ज्ञात लिये उसके time in World कुश्ती Entertainment स्पर्धा under the रिंग नाम Batista.
in WWE, he became a six-time world champion, winning the World हेवीवेट Championship four टाइम्स, and the WWE Championship दो टाइम्स.
he is the longest-reigning World Heavyweight Champion in WWE history.
In addition to these championships, Batista has जीती the World Tag Team चैंपियनशिप three times ( twice with Ric Flair and एकबार with John Cena ) and the WWE टैग Team Championship एकबार ( with Rey Mysterio ).
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match और गई on to headline WrestleMania 21, one of the top five highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
बाद trying out at संसार Championship Wrestling 's Power संयंत्र, Batista signed a contract with the WWF in 2000 and was sent to its developmental territory, Ohio घाटी Wrestling ( OVW ), where he won the OVW Heavyweight चैंपियनशिप.
In August 2012, Bautista signed a contract with Classic Entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts.
He जीती his MMA debut on October 6, 2012, defeating Vince Lucero via TKO in the first round.
हेनरी T. Thomas Sampson, Jr. ( born in Jackson, Mississippi in 1934 ) is an African-American आविष्कारक.
He graduated from ऊँची school in 1951 from Lanier High School in Jackson, Mississippi.
He तब attended Morehouse कॉलेज लिये a couple of सालो before transferring to Purdue University where he became a सदस्य of the Omega Psi फाई fraternity.
He received a Bachelor 's उपाधि in science from Purdue University in 1956.
He graduated साथ an MS degree in engineering इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Los Angeles in 1961.
Sampson भी प्राप्त उसके MS in नाभिकीय Engineering from the University of Illinois urbana-champaign in 1965, and his PhD in 1967.
He is the first African अमरीकी to earn a Ph.D.in नाभिकीय Engineering in the United States.
Some of his accomplishments include being a member of the United राज्य Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 और earning an Atomic Energy Commission सम्मान between 1964 and 1967.
बाद he was awarded the ब्लैक Image Award from Aerospace निगम in 1982.
He was awarded the अश्वेतों in Engineering, लागू विज्ञान Award, and prize for शिक्षा, by the Los Angeles Council of ब्लैक पेशेवर Engineers in 1983.
in जून 2007, Sampson was married to Laura Howzell यंग in st. Thomas, U.S. वर्जिन Islands.
Young-Sampson is a प्राध्यापक in the College of Education at California State University San Bernardino.
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a senior campaign adviser for US President Barack Obama.
previously, he was the 28th White House Press Secretary.
गिब्स was the communications director for then- u.s. Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign.
Gibbs, जो has worked साथ ओबामा since 2004, was press सचिव of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign और has previously specialized in Senate campaigns, having served as communications निदेशक for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and लिये four individual सीनेट campaigns, including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998.
Gibbs was also the दबायें secretary of Representative Bob Etheridge.
on November 22, 2008, Gibbs was घोषित as the दबायें secretary of the Obama administration.
He assumed the role of press secretary on January 20, 2009, and gave his first official drug on January 22.
On January 5, 2011, गिब्स announced that he would छोड़ the White हाउस to become an outside adviser to the administration.
He left on February 11, 2011.
on February 12, 2013, it was announced that गिब्स था been hired as a contributor लिये cable-news channel MSNBC.
His first appearance was on the same night prior to the 2013 State of the Union Address.
Armando Pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), better known by his stage नाम Pitbull, is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer.
His first recorded performance was इससे the लील jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released his debut album titled m.i.a.m.i. ( short for Money Is A Major Issue ) under TVT Records.
Since तब, he has released तीन other albums अंतर्गत the label : el Mariel in 2006, The Boatlift in 2007, and Planet Pit in 2011.
He released Rebelution in 2009, which included singles `` I जान You Want Me ( Calle ocho ) `` and `` krazy ``.
the latter peaked at no. 30 on the Hot 100 और No. 11 on the Hot रैप Tracks चार्ट जबकि `` I Know You Want Me '' peaked at No. 2 on the Hot 100 and peaked within the top ten spots of charts in the UK, Canada, इटली, and the नीदरलैंड्स.
The song reached No. 1 in France and the European Hot 100 on the सप्ताह समाप्ति अगस्त 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
he later signed with Polo grounds Music through Sony Music and created his अपना label Mr. 305 Inc.
Another सिंगल from Rebelution was `` Hotel रूम Service ``, which peaked at no. 8 on the Hot 100.
Rebelution went on to sell over 7.5 million worldwide digital singles and albums संयुक्त.
Nevertheless, he dropped a तोड़ called `` दे Me Everything '' which reached # 1 worldwide, and featured artists Ne-yo, Nayer, और Afrojack.
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many अन्य hit songs, like Tik Tok, Scream & Shout, Lo Hecho Esta Hecho, Bad, Papi, Diamonds, How Low, Tonight ( I 'm Lovin ' तुम ), Video Phone, Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride.
Pérez is भी the मेजबान of his own Spanish-language program on the cable channel Mun2 titled la Esquina ( Spanish for The Corner ).
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' combs co-founded ख़राब लड़के Latino, a subsidiary of combs ' ख़राब Boy Records label.
It primarily focuses on Latin हिप hop, लैटिन soul, Latin pop and other Tropical म्यूज़िक, and has कार्यालयों in New York and Miami, Florida.
साथ साथ co-founding it, Pérez currently heads the a & R division of the label.
Pérez has become a product endorser, representing alongside Drake, Rihanna, and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the कोडक brand and embarking on a partnership with the soft drink दानव Dr Pepper as part of the campaign “ विदा 23 ” लिये which he अंकित the song specifically featured on उसके album Armando.
Pitbull also घोषित he रै become the प्रवक्ता लिये Voli Vodka, in which he holds a बहुमत equity stake, and Budweiser has chosen pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer.
The commercials currently highlight pitbull dancing and gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of Bud Light.
Pitbull has also purchased an equity stake in Miami Subs Pizza and Grill.
हैलोवीन or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), also known as सब Hallows ' Eve, is a yearly celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31, the संध्या of the Western Christian feast of All hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally बहकावे by western European harvest festivals, and त्यौहार of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the सेल्टिक Samhain.
Other विद्वानों maintain कि it originated independently of Samhain and has solely ईसाई roots.
Typical festive हैलोवीन activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
स्वतंत्रता of speech is the राजनैतिक सही to communicate one 's opinions और ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive उन्हें.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the मीडियम used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly विषय to सीमाएं, as with libel, slander, obscenity, sedition ( including, लिये उदाहरण inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of information कि is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right अंतर्गत Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without हस्तक्षेप '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to तलाश, receive and impart information and ideas of सब kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the रूप of art, or through any other मीडिया of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these अधिकारों carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to निश्चित restrictions '' when जरुरी `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of पब्लिक order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक legal प्रणालियों and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to कारण religious offense, such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
सिडनी Harbour इससे the air, प्रर्दशित the Opera हाउस, the सीबीडी, Circular quay, the Bridge, the Parramatta River, North Sydney और Kirribilli in the foreground
The सिडनी Harbour Bridge is a स्टील through arch bridge across Sydney harbour that carries rail, vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district ( CBD ) and the North shore.
the dramatic view of the सेतु, the harbour, और the nearby सिडनी Opera हाउस is an iconic image of Sydney, New South वेल्स, and Australia.
The bridge is nicknamed `` The Coathanger '' क्युकी of its arch-based design.
अंतर्गत the दिशानिर्देश of Dr J.J.C. Bradfield of the NSW Department of Public Works, the bridge was designed और built by अंग्रेजों कड़ dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough और खोली in 1932.
The bridge 's design was बहकावे by the Hell Gate Bridge in New York.
it was the world 's widest long-span bridge, at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet ) चौड़ी, until construction of the नई Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver.
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge in the world, और it is the tallest steel arch सेतु, measuring इससे top to water level.
Until 1967 the harbour सेतु was Sydney 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot located near the namesake Hawaiian Islands, in the northern Pacific Ocean.
एक of the most well-known और heavily पढ़ाई hotspots in the world, the हवाई plume is जिम्मेदार for the creation of the हवाई – Emperor seamount chain, an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi ) long कड़ी of volcanoes, four of which हैं active, two of which are dormant, and more than 123 of which are extinct, many having चूंकि been मैदान beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends इससे दक्षिण of the island of Hawaii to the edge of the Aleutian Trench, near the eastern किनारे of Russia.
While most ज्वालामुखी are created by geological activity at tectonic plate सीमाएँ, the Hawaii हॉटस्पॉट is स्तिथ दूर from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot सिद्धान्त, first proposed in 1963 by John Tuzo Wilson, proposes that a single, फिक्स्ड mantle plume builds ज्वालामुखी that then, cut off इससे उनके source by the movement of the Pacific Plate, become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over लाखो of years.
According to this सिद्धान्त, the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and हवाई segments of the chain was caused by a अचानक शिफ़्ट in the गति of the Pacific Plate.
in 2003, fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot theory, suggesting that hotspots are mobile, not fixed, and that the 47 million year old बेंड थी caused by a शिफ़्ट in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's.
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the volcanoes to the उत्तर as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands.
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and their constant battle with the sea was a प्रमुख तत्व in Hawaiian mythology, embodied in Pele, the देवता of ज्वालामुखी.
After the arrival of europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 James Dwight Dana directed the first formal geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics, confirming the relationship long observed by the natives.
1912 चिह्नित the founding of the हवाई ज्वालामुखी Observatory by volcanologist Thomas Jaggar, initiating continuous scientific observation of the islands.
In the 1970s, a mapping project थी initiated to gain more information about the complex भूविज्ञान of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The hotspot रै since been tomographically imaged, प्रर्दशित it to be wide and up to deep, and ओलीवाइन and garnet -आधारd studies have shown its magma chamber is approximately.
In its at least 85 million years of कार्यकलाप the hotspot has produced an estimated of rock.
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time, causing the amount of time each individual volcano is active to decrease, from 18 million years for the 76 million year बूढ़ा Detroit Seamount, to बस under 900,000 for the एक million year-old Kohala ; on the अन्य hand, eruptive आवाज़ has increased from per year to about.
overall, this has caused a ट्रेंड towards more active लकिन quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas volcanoes on the near side of the hotspot overlap each other ( forming such superstructures as Hawaii island and the ancient Maui Nui ), the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart.
दाउद Palmer, director of the show, announced that the season 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show.
Petitions are being signed to bring the show for a fifth season.
The show airs on treehouse TV Canada और उपनाम Jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film निर्देशित by Martin Davidson with the screenplay written by the director and Arlene डेविडसन, based on the अनोखा by P. F. Kluge.
It was marketed with the टैगलाइन `` Rebel.
Rocker.
Lover.
Idol.
Vanished. ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the maxilla and the mandible.
Various forms of ONJ have been वर्णित over the last 160 सालो, and a क्रमांक of causes have महरूम suggested in the literature.
Osteonecrosis of the जबड़े associated with bisphosphonate therapy, required by some cancer उपचार regimens, has been identified और defined as a pathological entity since 2003.
The संभावित risk इससे lower oral doses of bisphosphonates, लिया by patients to prevent or treat osteoporosis, remains uncertain.
Various treatment options have been explored, however कठोर मामले of onj still require सर्जिकल removal of the affected bone.
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and संभावित sites of dental infection are जरूरी to सहायता prevent the condition, especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered.
The बोस्टन Red sox हैं a professional baseball team based in Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स, and a member of प्रमुख League बेसबॉल 's अमरीकी League Eastern प्रभाग.
Founded in as one of the American League 's eight चार्टर franchises, the Red Sox 's home ballpark रै महरूम fenway Park since.
the `` रेड Sox '' name थी चुनी by the team owner, जॉन I. Taylor, around, following previous Boston teams कि had been known as the `` Red Stockings ``.
They have played in 11 World Series, winning 7.
Boston was a प्रबल टोली in the new league, defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates in the first World Series in and जीतना four more championships by.
However, they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history, called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe Ruth to the rival Yankees दो years after their संसार championship in 1918, an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in.
However, the team 's history during that period थी hardly one of futility, लकिन was rather punctuated साथ some of the most memorable moments in World श्रेणी history, सहित enos Slaughter 's `` mad dash `` in, the `` Impossible Dream `` of, Carlton फिस्क 's home चलाएं in, and विधेयक Buckner 's error in.
Red Sox history has भी been चिह्नित by the team 's intense rivalry साथ the New York Yankees, arguably the fiercest and सबसे historic in North American professional sports.
the Boston रेड Sox हैं owned by Fenway Sports Group, जो also own Liverpool Football Club of the Premier League in England.
the Red sox are consistently one of the top एमएलबी टीमों in average सड़क attendance, जबकि the small capacity of Fenway Park रोकता them from leading in overall attendance.
इससे May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the Red Sox बेची out प्रत्येक home game-a कुल of 820 games ( 794 regular season ) for a major professional sports record that lasted almost a decade.
Mince pie भर with mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture of chopped सूखी फल, distilled spirits and spices, and sometimes beef suet, beef, or venison.
Originally, mincemeat always contained meat.
Many modern recipes contain beef suet, though सब्ज़ी shortening is sometimes used in its place.
Variants of mincemeat are found in Australia, Brittany, Canada, northern Europe, Ireland, दक्षिण Africa, the United Kingdom and the संयुक्त States.
In some देशों the term mincemeat refers to minced or ground meat.
डायना, Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) थी the पहला wife of Charles, Prince of Wales, the eldest son and वारिस apparent of Queen Elizabeth II.
वो was well known for उसके fund-raising work for international charities और as an eminent celebrity of the लेट 20th century.
Her wedding to the प्रिंस of वेल्स on 29 July 1981 was held at St Paul 's Cathedral और seen by a global television audience of over 750 million.
While married she bore the titles Princess of वेल्स, Duchess of Cornwall, duchess of Rothesay, Countess of चेस्टर और Baroness of Renfrew.
the marriage produced दो sons, the princes William and Harry, who became second and तीसरा in line to the British throne.
Diana was born into an aristocratic English family with royal ancestry.
She थी the fourth चाइल्ड of John Spencer, 8th Earl Spencer and his wife frances, बेटी of Maurice Roche, 4th Baron Fermoy.
वो became a public figure with the announcement of her engagement.
She also received recognition for her charity कार्य and for her support of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines.
From 1989, she was the अध्यक्ष of the Great ormond Street Hospital लिये children, in addition to dozens of अन्य charities.
Diana remained the object of worldwide media scrutiny during and after her marriage, which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996.
Media attention and public mourning यहूद considerable following her death in a car crash in पेरिस on 31 August 1997.
अर्जेंटीना, officially the Argentine Republic ( ), is the second largest देश in both South America and the लैटिन America प्रदेश.
The country is a federation of 23 provinces and the autonomous city of Buenos Aires, its capital and largest city.
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and the largest among Spanish-speaking nations by भौगोलिक area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by population, with over 41 million people.
Argentina is a founding member of the United राष्ट्र, Mercosur, the Union of South American Nations, the Organization of Ibero-American States, the World Bank Group और the World Trade संगठन, and is one of the G-15 और g-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in South America, bordered by Chile to the वेस्ट and south, Bolivia and Paraguay to the north and Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast.
Argentina claims प्रभुता over part of Antarctica, the Falkland Islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich आइलैंड्स.
Argentina is the successor राज्य of the Viceroyalty of the río de la Plata, an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire.
अर्जेंटीना declared independence during the Argentine War of Independence, which was followed by the Argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century.
The country faced several military coups और political instability during the 20th century, साथ with periodic economic crisis कि continue to this दिन.
A recognized Southern Cone शक्ति, and middle power, Argentina is लैटिन America 's third-largest economy, with a `` very high '' rating on the Human development index.
Within लैटिन America, Argentina has the fifth highest nominal जीडीपी per capita and the highest in purchasing power terms.
The Legatum संस्थान have argued that the country has a `` न्यास लिये भविष्य growth due to इसके market आकार, levels of foreign direct निवेश, and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods '', and it is classed by investors as middle उभरते economy.
Argentina is the लैटिन American देश with the most Nobel Prizes, for a total of five, all obtained during the second half of the twentieth century.
The country has तीन नोबेल prizes in science और दो of peace.
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina हैं concerned साथ medicine, nuclear physics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space and प्रक्षेपास्त्र technology और अनेक fields related to the country 's Main आर्थिक क्रियाएँ.
the country also has the mega exhibition center of science, technology, industry and art that हैं Latin अमेरिका 's largest.
Hickory is a city in Catawba County, with parts also in बुर्के काउंटी and Caldwell County.
The city 's 2010 estimated जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010.
Hickory is the principal city in the hickory-lenoir-morganton MSA, in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated PET, PETE, or the obsolete PETP or PET-P, is a thermoplastic पॉलिमर resin of the polyester family and is used in synthetic fibers ; beverage, food और other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in संयोजन with glass रेशा.
the term polyethylene terephthalate is a source of confusion because this substance, PET, does नहीं contain polyethylene.
Thus, the वैकल्पिक form, poly ( ethylene terephthalate ), is प्रायः used in scholarly journals for the sake of accuracy and clarity.
depending on its processing और thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may exist दोनो as an amorphous ( transparent ) and as a semi-crystalline polymer.
the semicrystalline material might appear transparent ( कण size < 500 nm ) or opaque और श्वेत ( particle size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and ethylene glycol साथ water as a byproduct, or by transesterification reaction between ethylene ग्लाइकोल and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers ( done immediately बाद esterification/transesterification ) with जल as the byproduct.
the बहुमत of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 % ), with bottle production हिसाब for around 30 % of वैश्विक demand.
In the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of textile अनुप्रयोग, पालतु is referred to by इसके आम name, `` polyester, '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is generally used in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up परिचय 18 % of संसार polymer production and is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second, respectively.
PET consists of polymerized इकाई of the monomer ethylene terephthalate, साथ repeating C10H8O4 units.
PET is commonly recycled, and रै the क्रमांक `` 1 '' as its recycling प्रतीक.
louisiana was admitted to the Union on April 30, 1812, and elects senators to वर्ग 2 and Class 3.
Its current senators हैं Democrat मरियम Landrieu and Republican David Vitter.
Black pudding, blood pudding or blood sausage is a type of sausage made by cooking blood or dried blood with a filler जबतक it is thick enough to congeal जब cooled.
The dish exists in विभिन्न cultures इससे Asia to Europe and the Americas.
Pig, cattle, शीप, बतख, and goat blood can be used depending on different countries.
In Europe and the Americas, typical fillers include meat, fat, suet, ब्रैड, cornmeal, sweet potato, प्याज, chestnuts, barley, and oatmeal.
in Spain, Portugal and Asia, potato is often replaced by rice.
Stakeholder may refer to:
Stakeholder ( कॉरपोरेट ), a person, group, organization, member or system who affects or can be affected by an संगठन 's actions
शेयरधारक, an एंटिटी कि can be affected by the results of कि in which they are कहा to be हितधारकों, i.e., that in जिससे they have a stake.
Project stakeholder, a person, group or संगठन with an interest in a project
Stakeholder सिद्धान्त, a theory that identifies और मॉडल the groups which हैं stakeholders of a निगम or project
शेयरधारक analysis, the प्रक्रम of identifying those affected by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ), a third party जो temporarily holds money or property while its owner is still being determined
जोकर smight ( March 9, 1925 - September 1, 2003 ) थी an American theatre and फिल्मी निदेशक.
Smight was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota and went to school with भविष्य कर्ता Peter Graves.
His फिल्मी credits शामिल The Traveling Executioner, खरगोश, Run, मीत Couples, Midway, Harper, Airport 1975, Damnation Alley and the Emmy पुरस्कार -winning Eddie, as खूब as many एपीसोड of television series such as The गोधूलि मण्डल and the Alfred Hitchcock Hour.
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th Cousin and composed the music for the फिल्मी adaption of फेंकें of Thunder Hear My Cry.
Smight died from कर्कट in लॉस एंजिल्स, California.
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 February 1907 O.S. 27 January 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a रूसी chemist and inventor.
He formulated the आवधिक Law, created his own version of the periodic table of तत्व, and प्रयुक्त it to correct the properties of some already discovered elements और भी to भविष्यवाणी the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ), officially the City of modesto, is the county seat and largest city of Stanislaus County, California, United राज्य.
With a population of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 census, Modesto ranks as the 18th largest city in the state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The Modesto Census काउंटी Division, which शामिल the cities of ceres and Riverbank, has a population of 312,842 as of 2010.
Modesto is located in the central valley area of उत्तरी California, 90 miles north of Fresno, 92 miles east of San Francisco, 68 miles south of the राज्य capital of sacramento, 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park, and 24 miles दक्षिण of स्टॉकटन.
modesto, a 29-time पेड़ City USA honoree, is surrounded by rich farmland, lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among सब California counties in farm production.
Led by milk, almonds, मुर्गियों, walnuts, and corn silage, the काउंटी grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011.
Modesto थी immortalized in the 1973 George लुकास film American graffiti.
the award winning film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' and दोस्ती on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia कि included the TV दिखाएँ Happy Days and the other spin-offs.
Ron Howard, Harrison Ford and Richard Dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर in the फिल्मी.
The soundtrack was a huge success.
Director George Lucas is a native of Modesto, graduating from Downey ऊँची School in 1962.
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being अनुक्रमणिका for 2011, which interviews 1,000 participants daily and asks individuals to assess their jobs, finances, physical health, emotional राज्य of mind and communities, ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 शहरों surveyed.
In दिसम्बर 2009, Forbes ranked modesto 48th out of 100 among `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck Cities ''.
In this ranking, Modesto ranked 8th in आवास affordability and travel time but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures.
Independence दिन, commonly ज्ञात as the Fourth of July, is a federal holiday in the United States commemorating the adoption of the घोषणा of Independence on जुलाई 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Independence Day is commonly associated with fireworks, parades, barbecues, carnivals, fairs, picnics, concerts, baseball games, family reunions, and political speeches and ceremonies, in addition to various other public and निजी events celebrating the history, government, and परंपराओं of the United States.
Independence Day is the national day of the United States.
A gender प्रतीक denotes the sex of an organism or characterizes an agent by लिंग.
The two standard gender प्रतीकों denoting पुरूष ♂ and female ♀ हैं derived from astrological प्रतीकों, denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus, respectively.
These symbols have been in use चूंकि the Renaissance भी denoting elements in alchemy, specifically the metals iron and तांबे.
They यहूद पहला used to denote the effective gender of plants ( i.e. sex of individual in a given crossbreed, since most plants are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751.
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a अस्थाई right to hold जमीन or property in which a lessee or a किरायेदार holds अधिकारों of real property by some form of title इससे a lessor or landlord.
हालांकि a tenant करता hold rights to रियल property, a leasehold estate is typically माना personal property.
Leasehold is a रूप of land tenure or property tenure जहाँ one party buys the right to occupy जमीन or a building लिये a given length of time.
As lease is a legal estate, leasehold एस्टेट can be bought and बेची on the open market.
A leasehold यूँ differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is खरीदा outright and thereafter held for an indeterminate length of time, and also differs from a tenancy where a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic आधार such as weekly or monthly.
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in decades or centuries ; a 99 year lease is quite common ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed किराया to the owner.
Terms of the agreement are contained in a lease, which has elements of अनुबंध और property विधि intertwined.
The term एस्टेट लिये years may occasionally be used.
This refers to a leasehold estate for any specific period of time ( the शब्द `` years '' is misleading ).
An estate लिये years is not automatically नवीनीकृत.
colloquially, `` lease '' and `` leasing `` are often a formalization of a longer, विशिष्ट period as compared with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at होगा, terminable or renewable at the समाप्त of a short काल.
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the World of the सुअर Olivia ) is a british-american children 's animated television श्रेणी produced by media company chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books.
It is seen on Nick Jr. in the US, Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland, and Disney जूनियर in लैटिन अमेरिका and ब्राज़ील, Treehouse TV in कनाडा.
The show has won a silver Parents ' Choice Award लिये इसके positive स्टोरी lines and वर्ण.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( bottom ) and Caribbean ( top ), with कनाल at शीर्ष बीच
the Panama Canal ( ) is a ship कनाल in Panama that connects the अटलांटिक Ocean ( via the caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean.
The canal cuts across the Isthmus of पनामा and is a key conduit for अंतरराष्ट्रीय maritime व्यापार.
There are ताले at each end to lift ships up to Gatun झील ( above sea-level ).
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the राशि of work required for the canal.
The current locks are wide.
A तीसरा, wider lane of locks is being built.
France began कार्य on the canal in 1881, but had to stop because of engineering problems and high मृत्यु due to disease.
The United राज्य ( US ) later took over the project and took a decade to complete the canal in 1914, enabling ships to avoid the lengthy Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake ड्योढ़ी ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan.
One of the largest and most difficult engineering projects कभी undertaken, the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half the time previously जरूरी.
the shorter, तेज़, safer route to the US West Coast and to nations in and along the प्रशांत Ocean allowed those places to become more एकीकृत साथ the world अर्थव्यवस्था.
दौरान this समय, स्वामित्व of the territory कि is now the Panama Canal थी first कोलम्बियाई, तब फ्रेंच, and then American ; the United States completed the construction.
The canal was taken over in 1999 by the Panamanian government, as long planned.
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships when the कनाल opened in 1914, to 14,702 vessels in 2008, the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama canal/universal Measurement System ( pc/ums ) tons.
By 2008, अधिक than 815,000 vessels था passed through the कनाल, many of them much larger than the original planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can पारगमन the canal today हैं called Panamax.
The American Society of सिविल इंजीनियर्स has named the पनामा Canal one of the seven wonders of the आधुनिक world.
Benjamin फ्रैंकलिन ( April 17, 1790 ) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
a विख्यात polymath, Franklin was a अग्रणी author, printer, political theorist, politician, postmaster, scientist, संगीतकार, inventor, satirist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat.
as a scientist, he was a प्रमुख figure in the American आत्मज्ञान and the इतिहास of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding विद्युत.
He invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the Franklin stove, a carriage odometer, and the glass 'armonica '.
He facilitated many civic organizations, including a fire department और a university.
Franklin अर्जित the title of `` The First American '' for his early and indefatigable campaigning लिये colonial unity ; as an author और spokesman in London for several colonies, then as the first United States दूत to France, he exemplified the emerging अमरीकी nation.
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, मुश्किल कार्य, education, community spirit, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, साथ the scientific और tolerant values of the Enlightenment.
In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, `` In a फ्रैंकलिन could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat. ''
To वाल्टर isaacson, this makes Franklin `` the सबसे संपन्नता American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become. ''
फ्रैंकलिन, always proud of his working class roots, became a कामयाब newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies.
He थी also साझेदार with William Goddard and Joseph गैलोवे the three of whom published the Pennsylvania वृत्तान्त, a newspaper कि was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies.
he became धनवान publishing Poor Richard 's Almanack and The Pennsylvania Gazette.
Franklin gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय renown as a scientist for his famous experiments in electricity and for उसके many inventions, especially the lightning लाठी.
He played a प्रमुख role in establishing the University of Pennsylvania और थी elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society.
Franklin became a national hero in अमेरिका when he spearheaded the प्रयत्न to have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act.
An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as American minister to पेरिस and was a major फिगर in the development of positive Franco-American relations.
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies, which enabled him to set up the first national communications network.
He was क्रियाशील in community affairs, colonial and राज्य politics, as well as नेशनल and international अफेयर्स.
From 1785 to 1788, he served as governor of Pennsylvania.
Toward the end of उसके life, he freed his स्लेव और became one of the most prominent abolitionists.
उसके colorful जीवन and legacy of वैज्ञानिक and political achievement, and status as one of America 's most influential Founding Fathers, have देखी Franklin honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the names of many towns, काउंटी, educational institutions, namesakes, and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death, countless cultural references.
Criminal Minds is an अमरीकी police प्रक्रियात्मक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम that premiered September 22, 2005, on CBS.
The series follows a team of profilers from the FBI 's Behavioral Analysis Unit ( bau ) based in Quantico, Virginia.
The bau is भाग of the FBI नेशनल Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime.
The show differs इससे many procedural dramas by focusing on profiling the criminal, rather than the अपराधों itself.
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in संघ with CBS Television Studios ( originally Paramount Network Television then CBS Paramount Network Television ) and ABC Studios ( originally Touchstone Television ).
सीबीएस announced in October 2009 that Legacy Interactive would develop a वीडियो game आधारित on the show.
The game होता require players to examine crime scenes for clues to help solve murder mysteries.
The interactive पहेली game was released in 2012, लकिन did नहीं feature कोई of the voices of the show 's cast, nor was the cast involved साथ the project.
On March 14, 2012, CBS renewed दण्ड Minds for an eighth season, which premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped बक्सा '' is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana, written by vocalist और guitarist Kurt Cobain.
The सोंग was released as the first single from the group 's third और final studio album, in Utero, in 1993.
It was एक of two गीतों from the एल्बम mixed by Scott Litt in order to augment the original production by निर्माता Steve Albini.
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single लिये sale in the United States, `` Heart-Shaped बक्सा '' received much अमरीकी radio airplay, reaching number one on the Billboard आधुनिक Rock Tracks chart.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय release of the सिंगल reached number five on the UK Singles Chart.
The song 's music video, directed by Anton Corbijn, garnered critical plaudits.
The कक्षीय speed of a body, generally a planet, a natural satellite, an artificial satellite, or a multiple स्टार, is the speed at जिससे it orbits around the barycenter of a system, प्रायः around a more massive body.
It can be used to refer to either the mean कक्षीय speed, the औसत गति as it completes an orbit, or instantaneous orbital speed, the गति at a particular पाइंट in its orbit.
The orbital speed at any स्थिति in the कक्षा can be computed from the अलहदा to the सेंट्रल body at that स्थिति, और the specific orbital उर्जा, which is स्वतंत्र of स्थिति : the kinetic उर्जा is the total energy ऋण the potential उर्जा.
भूरा Palace आंतरिक and अलिंद
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest operating होटल in Denver, Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built.
It is now operated by Quorum होटल and Resorts.
It was निर्मित in 1892, one year बाद than the Oxford Hotel.
It was named for इसके original owner, Henry C. Brown, and was designed with its odd triangular shape by architect फ़्रैंक edbrooke.
The होटल is located at 321 17th St, Denver, CO between 17th गली, Broadway and tremont Street/Pl in downtown Denver पीछे the Republic Plaza.
The main entrance door is on Tremont Street.
DVD-Video is a consumer वीडियो स्वरूप used to स्टोर digital video on DVD discs, and is currently the dominant consumer video format in Asia, North America, Europe, and Australia.
discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 भाग 2 decoder ( e.g., a dvd खिलाड़ी, or a कंप्यूटर DVD drive with a तन्त्र dvd player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel स्वरुप as described below ).
Typically, the data रेट लिये dvd movies ranges इससे 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, and the bit रेट is usually adaptive.
It was पहला available for खुदरा around 1997.
the DVD-Video specification थी created by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly available, क्युकी every subscriber must चिह्न a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the DVD किताब is proprietary and confidential.
The nautical mile ( symbol M, NM or nmi ) is a unit of length that is about one minute of arc of latitude measured साथ any meridian, or about एक मिनट of arc of longitude at the equator.
By international agreement it has been set at 1,852 metres exactly ( परिचय 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- SI ईकाई ( although accepted for use in the International प्रणाली of Units by the BIPM ) used especially by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries, and also in polar exploration.
It is commonly प्रयुक्त in international law और treaties, especially regarding the limits of territorial waters.
It विकसित इससे the sea mile और the related भौगोलिक mile.
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air navigators worldwide क्युकी of its convenience when working with charts.
Most nautical charts use the Mercator projection whose scale varies by about a factor of six from the equator to 80° latitude, so charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale.
The nautical मील is nearly equal to a minute of latitude on a chart, so a distance measured साथ a चार्ट divider can be roughly converted to nautical miles using the चार्ट 's latitude स्केल.
Shippensburg is a बरो in Cumberland and Franklin counties in the u.S. state of Pennsylvania.
Settled in 1730, Shippensburg lies in the Cumberland Valley, 41 miles ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, and is part of the Harrisburg– carlisle Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
in 1900, 3,228 people lived वहीँ ; in 1910, 3,457 ; और in 1940, 5,244 people lived वहीँ.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,492 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Shippensburg was incorporated as a borough on January 21, 1819.
In the past, there were furniture कारखानों, engine और pump works, and अन्य industrial works located within the town.
Shippensburg is also the home of the Beistle Company, the oldest and largest निर्माता of decorations and पार्टी goods, which sells its distinctive honeycomb paper decorations worldwide.
It is also the स्थान of pague and Fegan, the oldest continuously operated hardware स्टोर in Pennsylvania.
In May 2012, Volvo Construction Equipment began a $ 100 million expansion project to bring इसके American headquarters to shippensburg.
Shippensburg is भी घर to shippensburg University of Pennsylvania, one of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों of the Pennsylvania State System of उच्चतर Education.
वार्षिक the last full सप्ताह of July, the Shippensburg Community Fair is आयोजित.
Begun in 1958, the fair bills itself as Pennsylvania 's largest bi-county मेला.
the मेला includes agricultural exhibits, a craft show, खाना vendors, and carnival rides amongst अन्य things.
Every गर्मियाँ on the last Saturday of August, shippensburg holds the Corn Festival, an event that brings regional artisans and vendors to operate stands शहर.
the शहर is closed to traffic for at least 5 blocks for most of the day.
Average attendance at the festival is estimated at 60,000 - 70,000 each year.
Black hairy जीभ ( BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the tongue where the filiform papillae elongate with black or brown discoloration, giving a black and hairy appearance.
The appearance may be alarming, but it is a harmless condition.
predisposing factors include smoking, xerostomia ( dry mouth ), soft diet, poor मौखिक hygiene and certain medications.
Management is by improving oral hygiene, especially scraping or brushing the जीभ.
The IEEE 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is a serial बस इंटरफ़ेस standard for high-speed communications और isochronous real-time data ट्रांसफ़र.
It थी developed in the late 1980s and early 1990s by Apple, who पुकारा it FireWire.
The 1394 interface is comparable to USB, and प्रायः those two technologies are considered together, though usb has more market share.
Apple first included firewire in some of its 1999 models, and सबसे Apple computers since the साल 2000 have included FireWire ports, हालांकि, as of 2013, nothing परे the 800 संस्करण ( IEEE-1394b ).
The interface is also ज्ञात by the brand i.LINK ( सोनी ), and Lynx ( Texas यंत्र ).
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel scsi in many अनुप्रयोग, because of lower implementation costs and a simplified, अधिक adaptable cabling system.
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane interface, though this is not as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the high-definition Audio-Video Network Alliance ( HANA ) standard connection interface लिये a/v ( audio/visual ) component communication and control.
FireWire is also available in wireless, fiber optic, and coaxial versions using the isochronous protocols.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his initials srv, Vaughan is best known as a founding member और leader of दोगुना Trouble.
साथ साथ वादक क्रिस layton and bassist टॉमी Shannon, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning सात years, Vaughan और Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts जबकि their albums अक्सर गई सुनहरा.
he थी born और raised in Dallas, टेक्सास, and for a short period of समय lived in Graham, Texas.
As the younger bhai of jimmie Vaughan, vaughan प्रारंभ playing the guitar at age सात and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
at age 17, he dropped out of high स्कूल and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career, joining groups ऐसे as krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, और the Cobras.
in 1977, he formed Triple threat Revue, a band that eventually विकसित into Double Trouble और regularly performed around Austin.
in 1982, vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, catching the attention of musicians दाउद Bowie and जैक्सन Browne.
बोवी asked Vaughan to play on his आगामी studio album Let 's Dance, जबकि Browne offered the band free उपयोग of his personal studio in Los Angeles to रिकार्ड an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and दोगुना Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record निर्माता John हैमंड Sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the समूह released the एल्बम, Could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although उसके career had progressed सफलतापूर्वक, Vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास hospital in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a कोका और alcohol habit और returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released और अर्जित them a Grammy Award for Best समकालीन Blues Performance.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan was मारे in a helicopter crash following a प्रदर्शन in East ट्रॉय, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was निकला from a variety of musical genres.
He was बहकावे by blues musicians including Albert King, फ्रेडी King, ओटिस Rush, और Muddy waters, and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his गिटार playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
he was posthumously inducted into the ब्लूज़ Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be एक of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas.
gige redirects here.
For the camera protocol, see GigE vision.
In कंप्यूटर networking, gigabit ईथरनेट ( GbE or 1 GigE ) is a term describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 बिट्स per second ), as defined by the आईईईई 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into use beginning in 1999, धीरे supplanting Fast Ethernet in तार local networks, where it performed considerably faster.
the cables and equipment are बहुत similar to previous standards और were very common and economical by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs हैं allowed by the specification, but full-duplex usage with switches is much more common.
Intel PRO/1000 GT PCI network interface कार्ड
The main components of a stamp:
1. Image
2. Perforations
3. Denomination
4. Country name
A postage stamp is a छोटी टुकड़ा of पेपर कि is purchased and displayed on an मद of mail as evidence of payment of postage.
Typically, stamps are made from special paper, with a नेशनल designation और denomination ( दाम ) on the face, and a gum adhesive on the reverse side.
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other प्राधिकृत विक्रेता and हैं used to अदा for the costs involved in moving mail as well as other business necessities such as insurance and registration.
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a छोटी rectangle of varying proportions, though त्रिकोण or other shapes are occasionally प्रयुक्त.
The stamp is affixed to an लिफाफा or other डाक कवर ( i.e., पैकेट, box, mailing बेलन ) that the ग्राहक wishes to send.
the item is तब processed by the postal system, where a postmark, sometimes known as a cancellation mark, is usually applied over the स्टैम्प and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as प्रयुक्त, which prevents its reuse.
The postmark indicates the तिथि and point of origin of the mailing.
The mailed item is then delivered to the पता that the customer has applied to the envelope or कवर.
Postage stamps have facilitated the delivery of मेल since the 1840s.
पहले this time, ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ), usually बना from wood or cork, were often used to frank the मेल and confirm the payment of postage.
The first adhesive postage stamp, commonly referred to as the Penny Black, was issued in the संयुक्त Kingdom in 1840.
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United किंगडम of Great Britain and Ireland, which in the early 19th सदी थी in disarray और rife with corruption.
There are varying खाते of the inventor or inventors of the stamp.
Before the introduction of postage stamps, mail in the UK was paid लिये by the प्राप्तकर्ता, a system that was associated with an irresolvable problem : the लागत of delivering मेल यहूद नहीं recoverable by the postal service when प्राप्तकर्ता were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items, and senders had no incentive to सीमित the number, size, or वज़न of items sent, whether or not they होता ultimately be paid for.
The postage stamp resolved इस issue in a simple and elegant manner, with the additional benefit of room for an element of सौंदर्य to be introduced.
Later related inventions include डाक stationery ऐसे as prepaid-postage envelopes, पोस्ट cards, lettercards, aerogrammes and wrappers, postage मीटर, and, more recently, specialty बाक्स and envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service लिये priority or express mailing.
The postage स्टैम्प afforded convenience for both the मेलर and postal officials, more efficiently recovered costs लिये the postal service, and ultimately resulted in a better, faster डाक system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, their use resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th and 20th सदियां.
Postage stamps during this era यहूद the सबसे popular way of paying for mail, but by the end of the 20th century were rapidly होने आत by the use of metered postage and bulk mailing by व्यवसायों. )
the same result साथ respect to communications by private parties occurred over the पिछला decade of the 20th सदी and the first decade of the 21st due to declining cost of long distance telephone communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had.
As postage stamps with their engraved imagery began to appear on a widespread basis, historians and collectors began to take सूचना.
The study of postage stamps and their उपयोग is referred to as philately.
Stamp collecting can be दोनो a hobby and a रूप of historical study and reference, as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing systems have सदा been involved साथ the इतिहास of nations.
The विश्वविद्यालयों of Alabama at बर्मिंघम ( UAB ) is a public university in Birmingham in the U.S. state of Alabama.
विकासशील from an extension center स्थापित in 1936, the संस्था became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 and is today one of तीन institutions in the विश्वविद्यालयों of Alabama System.
uab offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions leading to bachelor 's, निपुण 's, doctoral, and professional degrees in the social और behavioral sciences, the liberal arts, कारोबार, education, engineering, and health-related fields ऐसे as medicine, dentistry, optometry, nursing, और public health.
the school is highly renowned for its medical शोध and natural sciences programs.
the UAB Health System, one of the largest academic medical centers in the United States, is affiliated with the university.
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in various medical specialties, including internal medicine, न्यूरोलॉजी, surgery, radiology, और anesthesiology.
uab Hospital is the only ACS verified Level I आघात center in Alabama, as rated by the American College of अध्येतावृत्ति आघात Program.
UAB is the state 's largest employer, with more than 18,000 faculty and स्टाफ and over 53,000 jobs at the university और in the health system.
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area and 1 in 33 jobs in the state of Alabama are सीधे or indirectly related to UAB.
The university 's overall annual economic प्रभाव was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
in the fall of 2012, the University of अलबामा at Birmingham नामांकित 17,999 students इससे more than 110 countries, including 1,605 freshmen.
There are योजनाएँ to commence with an `` आक्रामक '' growth in enrollment at UAB.
The current UAB President is Dr. रे L. Watts.
Tofu, also called bean curd, is a food made by coagulating soy रस and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks.
It is a component in many East Asian and southeast Asian cuisines.
वहीँ are many different varieties of टोफू, including fresh टोफू and tofu that रै been processed in some रास्ता.
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be used in savory and sweet बर्तन.
It is often seasoned or marinated to suit the dish.
Tofu originated in ancient चीन कुछ 2,000 years पहले.
Chinese legend ascribes इसके invention to prince Liu an ( चाइनीज : 劉安 Liú ān, 179–122 BC ).
Tofu और its production technique were introduced into Korea and then जापानी दौरान the Nara period.
It spread into other parts of East Asia as well.
This spread likely coincided with the spread of Buddhism क्युकी it is an महत्वपूर्ण सोर्स of protein in the vegetarian diet of ईस्ट Asian Buddhism.
Li Shizhen in the Ming Dynasty described a विधि of making tofu in Bencao gangmu.
Tofu has a low calorie count, relatively large amounts of protein, and छोटी fat.
it is high in iron and depending on the coagulant used in manufacturing, may also be high in calcium and/or magnesium.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee, known for being the one-time pet of American recording artist Michael Jackson, who bought the primate from a Texas research सुविधा in the early 1980s.
the animal was a frequent travel companion to the सिंगर, whose attachment to the animal led to media mockery and, among other factors, to a पब्लिक बोध of Jackson as an eccentric.
During the Bad World दौरे, लिये example, Jackson brought Bubbles with him to जापानी, where वे both drank tea with the महापौर of Osaka.
Bubbles थी initially kept at the Jackson family 's home in Encino, Los Angeles, but was स्थानांतरित to Neverland Ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom, used the singer 's toilet, और ate candy in the Neverland movie theater.
In 2003 the public learned that, जैसे सब खिलाते chimpanzees, Bubbles had matured into a विशाल and aggressive adult chimp unsuitable as a companion एनिमल.
He थी sent to a California animal प्रशिक्षक, जहाँ he थी reported to have attempted suicide.
When the trainer shut down his operation in 2004, Bubbles थी moved to the Center for Great Apes, a अभयारण्य in Wauchula, Florida, where he has lived since 2005.
चिंतन are an अंग्रेज़ी rock band from Teignmouth, Devon, which formed in 1994.
The बैंड consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals, lead गिटार, piano, keyboards, keytar ), Christopher Wolstenholme ( बास, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and डोमिनिक Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of their 2006 album Black Holes and Revelations, keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band.
Muse are ज्ञात for their energetic and extravagant live प्रदर्शन and their संलयन of many music genres, सहित space rock, progressive rock, alternative rock, heavy metal, classical music and electronica.
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ), Origin of Symmetry ( 2001 ), Absolution ( 2003 ), Black Holes and खुलासे ( 2006 ), The प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ) and the 2nd Law ( 2012 ).
They have भी issued three live albums, Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ), जिससे is also a संकलन of B-sides, Absolution Tour ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007.
Black छेद और खुलासे earned the band a Mercury Prize नामांकन and a third place finish in the NME एल्बम of the Year सूची for 2006.
चिंतन have also जीती a collection of music awards throughout their इतिहास, including पाँच MTV यूरोपीय Music Awards, छह Q Awards, eight NME Awards, two ब्रिट Awards —winning `` Best British Live Act '' twice, an MTV Video Music पुरस्कार, four Kerrang !
Awards और an अमरीकी Music Award.
They were also मनोनीत for five Grammy Awards, of which they जीती Best Rock Album, for उनके fifth studio album The Resistance ( 2009 ).
Muse have sold over 15 million albums worldwide.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the पूंजी city of the फ़्री राज्य Province of South अफ़्रीकी ; and, as the judicial capital of the nation, one of South Africa 's three national capitals – the other दो being Cape Town, the legislative capital, और Pretoria, the administrative capital.
bloemfontein is popularly and poetically ज्ञात as `` the city of roses ``, owing to the abundance of these flowers and the annual रोज़ पर्व आयोजित there.
The city 's Sesotho name is mangaung, meaning `` प्लेस of cheetahs `` and it has महरूम शामिल in the mangaung Local Municipality since 2000.
Bloemfontein is situated on शुष्क grassland at, at an altitude of above sea level.
The city is home to 369,568 निवासियों, while the Mangaung Local Municipality has a population of 645,455.
Where Do we Come From ?
What Are We ?
Where हैं We Going ?
One of Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध paintings.
the meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance of life or existence in general.
It can also be expressed in अलग forms, such as `` Why are we here ? ``, `` What is life सब about ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
it has been the subject of much philosophical, scientific, and theological speculation throughout history.
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many different cultural and ideological पृष्ठभूमि.
The meaning of जीवन is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness, and borders on many other issues, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the existence of one or multiple Gods, conceptions of God, the आत्मा, and the afterlife.
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe, exploring the कॉन्टेक्स्ट and पैरामीटर्स concerning the 'how ' of life.
Science भी studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related धारणा of नैतिकता.
an alternative, humanistic approach poses the question `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
the value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide with the achievement of ultimate वास्तविकता, or a feeling of oneness, or even a अहसास of sacredness.
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, ब्रायन Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
परिवार Guy is an अमरीकी animated sitcom that features five प्रमुख voice actors, और numerous regular डाल and recurring guest stars.
The principal आवाज़ cast consists of show निर्माता Seth MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new कर्ता Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice अभिनेताओं include Patrick Warburton, आदम West, John G. Brennan, Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly, और repeat guest stars शामिल फिलिस Diller, चार्ल्स Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
अनेक cast members provide आवाज़ें लिये multiple वर्ण.
The आवाज़ actors, in portraying the various character personalities on the दिखाएँ, चित्रण inspiration from celebrities and pop culture.
परिवार guy characters have been played by more than one actor, after members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations.
kunis was मनोनीत for an Annie पुरस्कार लिये voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` मुश्किल Legal `` and MacFarlane रै also won an एमी Award for Outstanding Voice-Over प्रदर्शन and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production, though no other cast member रै won an award for their work on the series.
1911 Illustration by एडमंड Dulac
`` The राजकुमारी and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` the Princess on the मटर '' ) is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen about a यंग woman whose royal पहचान is established by a test of her physical sensitivity.
The tale was first published with three others by andersen in an inexpensive booklet on 8 May 1835 in Copenhagen by C.A. Reitzel.
Andersen had सुना the story as a child, और it संभावित has its source in folk material, संभवतः originating from Sweden as it is unknown in the डैनिश oral tradition.
Neither `` the Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's अन्य tales of 1835 यहूद well received by Danish आलोचकों, who disliked उनके casual, chatty style, and their कमी of morals.
In 1959 `` The Princess और the Pea '' was adapted to the musical stage in a production पुकारा Once upon a Mattress starring Carol Burnett.
जर्मनी Americans ( ) are citizens of the संयुक्त States जो were either born in जर्मनी or are of जर्मनी ancestry.
They comprise about 50 लाख people, making them the largest ancestry group ahead of Irish Americans, African Americans and English Americans.
They comprise about 1/3 of the German diaspora all over the world.
None of the German states had नई World colonies.
Not जबतक the 1670s did the first significant groups of German immigrants arrive in the British colonies, settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania.
आव्रजन continued in very large संख्याएँ during the 19th century, with कुछ eight लाख आमद from Germany.
They were pulled by the attractions of जमीन and religious freedom, and pushed out of यूरोपीय by shortages of land and धार्मिक or political दमन.
Many arrived seeking धार्मिक or political freedom, others for economic opportunities greater than those in Europe, and others simply for the chance to प्रारंभ fresh in the New World.
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought आउट the most productive land, where their intensive farming techniques would अदा off.
After 1840, many आए to शहरों, where `` Germania '' —German-speaking districts—soon emerged.
जर्मनी अमेरिकी established the first kindergartens in the United States, introduced the Christmas पेड़ परंपरा, and originated popular American foods ऐसे as hot dogs and hamburgers.
German American celebrations are held throughout the country, one of the most well-known होने the German-American Steuben Parade in New York नगर, आयोजित प्रत्येक third Saturday in September.
There are also major annual events in Chicago, Cincinnati, Milwaukee, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and अन्य cities.
Like many other immigrants that came to the United States, an overwhelming number of लोगों of German or आंशिक German descent have essentially become Americanized.
the प्रस्तावना to the United राज्य Constitution is a brief introductory बयान of the Constitution 's आधारभूत purposes और guiding principles.
It states in सामान्य terms, और courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and कया they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to सब of the people of the United States.
as the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the नई government originates from the लोगों of the संयुक्त States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast जनसांख्यिकी concerning the individual rights और equality among सब people ; this can be देखी most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social लोकतंत्र.
The इतिहास of the Internet began with the development of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक computers in the 1950s.
The public थी first introduced to the concepts that would सीसे to the Internet जब a message was भेजा over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of California, Los Angeles ( UCLA ), after the second piece of network equipment was संस्थापित at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
पैकेट switched networks such as arpanet, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, Tymnet, और telenet, were developed in the लेट 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of प्रोटोकॉल.
The ARPANET in particular led to the विकास of protocols लिये internetworking, in which multiple separate networks could be joined together into a संजाल of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत, और consequently, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, पुकारा the अंतरजाल, was introduced.
अभिगम to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science संजाल ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, removing the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the अंतरजाल has had a क्रांतिकारी impact on culture and commerce, including the rise of near-instant संचार by electronic मेल, instant messaging, Voice over Internet Protocol ( voip ) `` phone calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the संसार Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social नेटवर्किंग, and online खरीदारी sites.
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत high speed रीढ़ Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of आंकड़ा हैं transmitted at higher और higher speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the वैश्विक communication landscape was almost तत्काल in historical शर्तें : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
आज the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online information, कॉमर्स, entertainment, और सोशल नेटवर्किंग.
दक्षिणपश्चिम Airlines Co. ( ) is a major u.S. airline and the world 's largest low-cost वाहक, headquartered in Dallas, Texas.
It was स्थापित in 1967 और adopted its वर्तमान नाम in 1971.
The airline रै more than 46,000 employees and operates more than 3,400 फ़्लाइट प्रति day.
As of June 5, 2011, it carries the most domestic यात्री of any u.S. airline.
as of April 2013, Southwest एयरलाइंस has अनुसूचित service to 84 destinations in 41 states and Puerto Rico.
Southwest Airlines has solely संचालित बोइंग 737s, except for a few years in the 1970s and 1980s, जब it संचालित Boeing 727s.
As of अगस्त 2012, Southwest is the largest ऑपरेटर of the 737 विश्वव्यापी with over 550 in service, each operating an average of छह flights per day.
In May 2011, the airline acquired AirTran Airways, with संयोजन of the carriers expected to be complete by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the company was issued a single operating certificate, technically becoming one एयरलाइन.
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing कम्पनी.
Although संस्थापित as a local beer in Western Pennsylvania, it was marketed aggressively और eventually became a नेशनल product.
The brand was बेची to Anheuser-Busch of St. लुई, Missouri, in मिड 2006, which transferred brewing परिचालन to New Jersey.
Benedict XVI (,, ; born Joseph aloisius ratzinger on 16 April 1927 ) is पोप emeritus of the Catholic गिरिजाघर.
He served as Pope from 2005 to 2013.
In that position, he was both the leader of the Catholic Church और Sovereign of the Vatican City राज्य.
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, मनाये his Papal Inauguration Mass on 24 अप्रैल 2005, and took possession of his गिरजाघर, the archbasilica of St. John Lateran, on 7 May 2005.
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native बायर्न, Ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded विश्वविद्यालयों theologian by the late 1950s और was appointed a full प्राध्यापक in 1958.
After a long career as an academic, सेवारत as a professor of theology at अनेक German universities—the last होने the विश्वविद्यालयों of Regensburg, where he served as वाइस President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope पॉल VI in 1977, an unusual promotion for किसी साथ little pastoral अनुभव.
In 1981, he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the Congregation लिये the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
From 2002 until his election as pope, he was also डीन of the College of Cardinals, and as such, the primus इंटर pares among the cardinals.
Prior to becoming pope, he was `` a प्रमुख figure on the Vatican stage लिये a quarter of a century '' as `` एक of the most respected, influential and विवादास्पद members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` second to none जब it came to सेटिंग church priorities and directions '' as एक of पोप John Paul ii 's closest confidants.
He was originally a उदार theologian, but adopted रूढ़िवादी views बाद 1968.
His prolific writings defend traditional Catholic doctrine and values.
During his papacy, बेनेडिक्ट xvi advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased secularisation of many Western countries.
He views relativism 's denial of उद्देश्य truth, and the denial of moral truths in particular, as the सेंट्रल problem of the 21st century.
He सिखाया the importance of both the Catholic Church and an समझना of परमेश्वर 's redemptive love.
Pope बेनेडिक्ट भी revived a number of traditions including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position.
he नवीनीकृत the संबंध between the कैथोलिक Church और art, viewing the use of सौंदर्य as a path to the sacred, promoted the use of Latin, and reintroduced traditional papal garments, लिये जिससे reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
He has been described as `` the main intellectual force in the Church '' since the mid-1980s.
Several of Pope Benedict 's students इससे his academic career are also prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him, notably Christoph Schönborn.
On 11 February 2013, Pope Benedict announced his इस्तीफा in a speech in लैटिन before the cardinals, citing a `` lack of strength of mind and body '' due to his advanced age.
His resignation became effective on 28 February 2013.
He is the first पोप to इस्तीफा चूंकि Pope Gregory बारहवीं in 1415, and the first to do so on उसके अपना initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294.
As pope emeritus, Benedict retains the स्टाइल of His Holiness, and the title of Pope, and will continue to dress in the papal रंग of white.
He was succeeded by Pope फ्रांसिस on 13 March 2013, and he moved into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae मठ for उसके रिटायरमेंट on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope with असली test image.
Used by military to examine stereoscopic pairs of aerial छायाचित्र.
दृश्य of बोस्टन, c. 1860 ; an early stereoscopic कार्ड for viewing a scene from nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus and sets of stereo स्लाइड.
Patented by A. Fuhrmann around 1890.
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic photographs, painting by Jacob Spoel, पहले 1868.
A very early depiction of people using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( भी called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for creating or enhancing the illusion of depth in an image by अर्थात् of stereopsis for binocular vision.
The शब्द stereoscopy derives इससे the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` firm, solid '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to look '', `` to see ''.
Most stereoscopic methods present two offset बिंब separately to the left and right eye of the viewer.
ये two-dimensional images are then combined in the brain to give the perception of 3D depth.
इस technique is distinguished इससे 3d displays that display an चित्र in three full आयाम, allowing the observer to increase सूचना about the 3-dimensional objects being प्रदर्शित by सिर and eye movements.
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( o.s. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice अध्यक्ष of the United States.
An अमरीकी Founding Father, he was a statesman, diplomat, और a leading advocate of American independence इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन.
खूब educated, he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas, दोनो in प्रकाशित works and in letters to his बीवी and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the जल्दी stages of the American Revolution.
A lawyer and पब्लिक figure in Boston, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे Massachusetts to the Continental Congress, he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare स्वतंत्रता.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, और was its primary advocate in the कॉंग्रेस.
Later, as a राजनयिक in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace सन्धि with ग्रेट Britain, और was जिम्मेदार for obtaining vital governmental loans इससे Amsterdam bankers.
a political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which together with his पहले Thoughts on Government, influenced American political विचार.
One of his greatest भूमिकाएँ was as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' क्रांतिकारी credentials secured him two terms as George वॉशिंगटन 's वाइस president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one पद, he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans, as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist पार्टी led by his कड़वा enemy सिकंदर हैमिल्टन.
एडम्स हस्ताक्षरित the controversial Alien और Sedition अधिनियमों, and built up the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( पुकारा the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his presidency was उसके peaceful रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the फेस of Hamilton 's विपक्ष.
In 1800, Adams was पराजित for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and रिटायर्ड to मैसाचुसेट्स.
He later resumed his friendship with Jefferson.
He and his wife, अबीगैल Adams, संस्थापित an संपन्नता family line of politicians, diplomats, and historians now referred to as the Adams political परिवार.
एडम्स was the father of John Quincy Adams, the sixth अध्यक्ष of the United States.
His achievements have received वृहद recognition in modern times, हालांकि his contributions were not initially as मनाये as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the building कि eventually became known as the White House.
The संयुक्त राज्य ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States करेंसी.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, while the u.S. Treasury Building is प्रदर्शित on the reverse.
( Hamilton is एक of two non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills.
the other is Benjamin फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is एक of तभी four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who थी not born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others हैं : Albert gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver प्रमाणपत्र ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 हवाई state क्वार्टर. )
All $ 10 bills issued today are संघीय आरक्षित Notes.
The Bureau of नक्काशी और Printing says the average life of a $ 10 विधेयक in circulation is 18 months पहले it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills हैं delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is जॉन Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait संग्रहण of New York नगर Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in परिसंचरण in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow विल्सन facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
A rider on a यामाहा Waverunner XL performing a high-speed turn.
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a जेट of water ejected from the वापस of the शिल्प.
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that उपयोग a propeller in the water नीचे or behind the नाव, a jetboat draws the water इससे अंतर्गत the boat into a पंप अंदर the boat, तब expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) for operation in the fast-flowing और उथले rivers of New Zealand, specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
Previous कोशिशें at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes, generally due to the inefficient डिज़ाइन of the units and the फैक्ट that they offered few लाभ over conventional propellers.
Unlike these previous waterjet developments, such as Campini 's और the Hanley hydrojet, Hamilton had a specific need for a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow जल, and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From this, the लोकप्रियता of the jet unit और jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it थी found the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers for a wide range of vessel types, and as such, waterjets हैं प्रयुक्त widely आज for many high-speed बरतन, including passenger ferries, rescue craft, patrol boats और offshore supply vessels.
Jetboats are highly maneuverable, and many can, इससे पूरा speed, be reversed and brought to a रोकें within little more than their own लंबाई, in a maneuver known as a `` क्रैश stop ''.
The well known हैमिल्टन turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is cut, the steering is turned sharply और the throttle opened again, causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large spray of water.
वहीँ is no engineering limit to the size of jetboats, हालांकि the validity of their use depends a lot on the प्रकार of अनुप्रयोग.
क्लासिक prop-drives are generally more efficient and किफायती at low speeds, up to about, but as boat speed increases beyond this, the extra hull resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( etc. ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 गांठ range ( up to ).
Also, in परिस्थितियों with बहुत विशाल propellers turning at slow speeds ( ऐसे as tug boats ), the equivalent size waterjet होता be too big to be practical.
For these reasons, the विशाल majority of waterjet units are installed in high-speed vessels और in particular situations जहाँ shallow draught, maneuverability, and load flexibility are main चिंताएं.
The biggest jet-driven vessels are found in सैन्य उपयोग or the high-speed passenger/car ferry उद्योग.
South अफ़्रीकी 's s ( approximately long ) हैं the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far.
Even these German-built vessels are capable of performing `` crash stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly पारिभाषित as inflammation of the uvea.
the uvea consists of the middle, pigmented, vascular structures of the eye और includes the iris, ciliary body, और choroid.
Uveitis requires an तात्कालिक referral and thorough परिक्षा by an ophthalmologist or optometrist साथ with urgent treatment to control the inflammation.
Eric `` E. ''
Murphy is a fictional character on the comedy-drama television series Entourage.
He is played by Kevin Connolly.
The Shining is a 1980 मनोवैज्ञानिक हॉरर film उत्पादित and निर्देशित by Stanley Kubrick, co-written with novelist Diane Johnson, और starring Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall, Scatman Crothers, और डैनी Lloyd.
The film is based on the Stephen King अनोखा The जगमगाता.
A लेखक, Jack Torrance, takes a job as an off-season कार्यवाहक at an isolated hotel.
His young son possesses psychic abilities और is able to see things from the past and future, such as the ghosts who inhabit the होटल.
Soon after settling in, the family is फंस in the hotel by a snowstorm, and Jack gradually becomes influenced by a supernatural presence ; he descends into madness and attempts to murder his wife and बेटे.
Unlike previous Kubrick films, which विकसित an audience gradually by building on word-of-mouth, the Shining was released as a mass-market film, खोलने at first in just two शहरों on Memorial Day, then nationwide a month later.
हालांकि initial response to the फिल्मी थी mixed, later critical assessment थी more favorable and it is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre.
Film director Martin Scorsese, writing in The Daily Beast, ranked it as one of the 11 scariest horror movies of सब time.
फिल्मी आलोचकों, film students, and Kubrick 's producer, Jan Harlan, have remarked on the enormous influence the film has had on लोकप्रिय culture.
The आरंभिक European release of The Shining थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the अमरीकी version, achieved by removing most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel.
आँगन Cola Bottle
Patio Diet Cola was a brand of आहार soda introduced by Pepsi in 1963.
It थी created in response to Diet Rite Cola, which was the first diet cola on the मार्केट.
Fitness प्रवर्तक Debbie Drake was Patio आहार कोला 's प्रवक्ता.
In 1964, Patio released orange, grape, और रूट बियर जायका.
This flavor line was not meant to compete with brands like Orange crush, लकिन rather fill out the लकीर.
Patio sodas were उपलब्धियाँ in the cold-bottle मार्केट : grocery and mom-and-pop stores.
विज्ञापन लिये आँगन was comparatively scarce ; at the time, bottlers were regionally franchised, और सम्बन्धित advertising थी necessarily local.
In 1964, आँगन diet cola became Diet Pepsi.
The newly branded diet सोडा was advertised alongside Pepsi with the tagline `` Pepsi either रास्ता '', which replaced the slogan `` Dances साथ flavor ''.
The short life span of Patio Diet cola makes it a ग्रेट addition for bottle collectors.
सबसे of the remaining आँगन line of flavors were phased आउट by the जल्दी 1970s, while a few survived until the मिड 70s
Infrastructure is basic शारीरिक and organizational structures needed लिये the operation of a society or enterprise, or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function.
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural तत्व that provide framework supporting an संपूर्ण structure of development.
It is an important term for judging a देश or region 's development.
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society, ऐसे as roads, bridges, जल supply, sewers, electrical grids, telecommunications, and so forth, and can be defined as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable, sustain, or बढ़ाएँ societal living conditions. ''
Viewed functionally, अवसंरचना facilitates the उत्पादन of goods और सेवाएं, and also the वितरण of finished उत्पाद to markets, as well as मौलिक social services such as schools and hospitals ; for example, roads enable the transport of raw materials to a फैक्टरी.
In military parlance, the term refers to the buildings and स्थाई installations जरुरी for the support, redeployment, and operation of military forces.
to make it simple, अवसंरचना is anything कि is needed everyday, an रोज item.
A graphical representation of the आदर्श human karyotype
Mitochondrial DNA.
Human genetic variation is the genetic differences both within and among populations.
There may be multiple variants of any given जीन in the human population ( genes ), leading to polymorphism.
Many genes are not बहुरूपी, meaning that only a single allele is present in the population : the जीन is then said to be fixed.
no two इंसानो are genetically identical.
Even monozygotic twins, who develop इससे one zygote, have infrequent जेनेटिक differences due to mutations occurring during development and gene copy number variation.
Differences between individuals, even closely सम्बन्धित individuals, are the key to techniques such as genetic fingerprinting.
Alleles occur at अलग frequencies in different human populations, with populations that हैं अधिक geographically and ancestrally remote tending to differ more.
Causes of differences between individuals include the exchange of genes during meiosis and various mutational events.
वहीँ are at तनिक two reasons क्यों genetic variation exists between populations.
Natural चयन may confer an adaptive advantage to individuals in a specific environment if an allele provides a competitive advantage.
Alleles under selection are likely to occur only in those geographic regions जहाँ they confer an लाभ.
The second main cause of genetic variation is due to the high degree of neutrality of सबसे mutations.
Most mutations do नहीं appear to have any selective प्रभाव one way or the other on the organism.
The main कारण is genetic drift, this is the effect of random changes in the gene pool.
In humans, founder प्रभाव and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have had an important influence in neutral differences between populations.
The theory that humans recently migrated आउट of Africa supports इस.
the study of human genetic variation has both evolutionary significance and medical अनुप्रयोग.
It can help scientists understand ancient human population migrations as well as कैसा अलग human groups are biologically related to one another.
For medicine, study of human genetic variation may be important because कुछ disease-causing alleles occur more often in people from specific geographic regions.
New findings show that प्रत्येक इंसान has on average 60 new mutations compared to their अभिभावक.
अलावा from mutations, many जीनों that may have aided humans in प्राचीन टाइम्स प्लेग इंसानो today.
For example, it is suspected that जीनों that allow humans to अधिक efficiently process food are those that make people susceptible to obesity and diabetes आज.
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and the National Mall at the Taxpayer March on वॉशिंगटन on September 12, 2009.
The Tea Party movement is an American political गति that advocates strict adherence to the United States Constitution, reducing U.S. government spending and कर, and reduction of the u.S. नेशनल debt और federal budget deficit.
The movement has been पुकारा partly conservative, partly libertarian, and partly populist.
The movement has sponsored protests and समर्थित political candidates चूंकि 2009.
The name of the movement is derived from the Boston Tea Party of 1773, an iconic event in American history.
Anti-tax प्रदर्शनकारियों in the United States have often referred to the असली Boston Tea Party for inspiration.
References to the Boston Tea Party यहूद part of Tax Day protests held throughout the 1990s and पहले.
By 2001, a custom had developed among some conservative activists of mailing tea बैग to legislators and other officials as a symbolic अधिनियम.
The currencies of प्यूर्टो Rico closely follow the historic development of Puerto रीको.
As a colony of स्पेन and the United States, प्यूर्टो रीको was granted the use of both foreign and प्रांतीय currencies.
following the Spanish colonization in 1502, Puerto Rico became an important port, with इसके own supply of gold.
However, as the mineral reserves ran empty within the सदी, the archipelago 's economy suffered.
The Spanish क्राउन issued the Situado Mexicano, which meant that a semi-regular shipment of gold इससे the viceroyalty of New Spain would be sent to the island, as a रास्ता to provide economic support.
Between 1636 and 1637, Philip iv of Spain imposed a tax which had to be paid using a revenue stamp.
प्रेरित by this, Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766, becoming the first उपनिवेश to print 8- real banknotes in the स्पेनी Empire and which in the Spanish सरकारी 's स्वीकृति of subsequent issues.
The situado थी discontinued दौरान the 19th सदी, creating an economic crisis, as a result of मैक्सिको gaining its independence from Spain.
Salvador Meléndez Bruna, the औपनिवेशिक governor in office, ordered the समस्या of provincial banknotes, creating the प्यूर्टो rican peso.
However, मुद्रण of ये banknotes ceased after 1815.
During the following दशकों, विदेशी coins became the widespread currency.
In the 1860s and 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
On February 1, 1890, the Banco Español de Puerto Rico was inaugurated and began issuing banknotes.
The bank designed four series और placed three in circulation under Spanish rule.
In 1895, a royal Decree ordered the उत्पादन of provincial peso coins.
on August 13, 1898, the Spanish-American War ended साथ Spain ceding प्यूर्टो Rico to the United States.
The banco Español de प्यूर्टो Rico was renamed Bank of पोर्टो Rico and issued बिल्स समतुल्य to the United States डालर, creating the Puerto Rican dollar.
In 1902, the First National Bank of पोर्टो Rico issued banknotes in a parallel manner.
Two more series were issued until 1913.
बाद Puerto Rico 's economy और monetary system was fully integrated into the United राज्य ' economic and मौद्रिक system, the Puerto Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury.
the peso and डालर have महरूम followed by other contemporary issues, सहित commemorative banknotes, निजी currency, and a quarter coin designed with फोर्ट San Felipe del Morro in the face.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, तब to Pepsi in 1961.
The Book of Ezekiel is the तीसरा of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew बाइबल, following the books of यशायाह and Jeremiah and preceding the किताब of the बारह.
( The order is somewhat different in the Christian Old Testament ).
It derives its name from, and records the visions of, the 6th century BC priest and prophet Ezekiel.
According to the book, the prophet, exiled in Babylon, experienced a series of seven visions during the 22 years from 593 to 571 BC, a period which spans the फाइनल destruction of Jerusalem in 586.
the visions, and the book, हैं structured around तीन themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the राष्ट्र ( अध्याय 25-32 ) ; और future blessings for Israel ( अध्याय 33-48 ).
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major United States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. जनसांख्यिकी.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The नई Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined सांख्यिकीय Area, a larger trading area, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
The city is named बाद Orléans, a city located on the loire River in Centre, France, and is well known for इसके पृथक French क्रियोल architecture, as खूब as its cross-cultural and multilingual विरासत.
नई Orleans is also famous for इसके cuisine, music ( विशेषकर as the birthplace of jazz ), and its सालाना celebrations and त्यौहार, most notably Mardi Gras.
The नगर is often referred to as the `` most unique '' in अमेरिका.
नई Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The city and ऑरलियन्स Parish ( ) हैं.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of st. Tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the east, Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the दक्षिण and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of which is included in the city limits, lies to the north and झील Borgne lies to the east.
the नेशनल Birth कंट्रोल League थी a birth control organization in the संयुक्त States.
It was founded in March 1915 by Mary dennett, Clara Gruening Stillman and Jessie एशले.
इसके main purpose was to overturn the laws which banned contraceptives from the U.S. mails.
अभियान यहूद आरोहित in नई यॉर्क, but in 1919 the League was disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League.
Cancer, known medically as a malignant neoplasm, is a broad समूह of विभिन्न diseases, all involving unregulated cell growth.
In cancer, cells divide and grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade nearby parts of the body.
The cancer may भी spread to more दूर भाग of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
नहीं all tumors are cancerous.
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably, do not invade neighboring tissues, और do not spread throughout the body.
There are over 200 different ज्ञात cancers that afflict humans.
determining what कल्याणकारी cancer is जटिल.
अनेक things हैं known to बढ़ाएँ the risk of cancer, including tobacco उपयोग, certain infections, radiation, lack of शारीरिक activity, obesity, and environmental pollutants.
These can directly damage genes or combine साथ existing जेनेटिक faults within कोशिकाएं to cause the disease.
Approximately five to ten percent of cancers are entirely hereditary.
Cancer can be detected in a number of ways, including the presence of certain signs and लक्षण, screening परीक्षण, or चिकित्सा imaging.
Once a possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic examination of a tissue sample.
Cancer is usually treated with कीमोथेरेपी, radiation therapy and surgery.
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type और location of the कर्कट और the extent of disease at the start of treatment.
While cancer can affect people of all ages, and a few types of cancer are more common in children, the risk of developing cancer generally increases with आयु.
In 2007, cancer caused about 13 % of all human मौतों विश्वव्यापी ( 7.9 million ).
Rates are rising as अधिक people live to an old age and as mass जीवनशैली changes occur in the developing world.
Spring ski touring on Hardangervidda, नार्वे
Skiing is a recreational activity और competitive sport in which the participant attaches long runners or skis to boots or shoes on the feet and uses उन्हें to सफर on top of snow.
Aside from मनोरंजन और competition, skiing has महरूम used for military purposes and even यात्राएं in areas that अनुभव heavy snowfall.
Many types of competitive skiing events are recognized by the International ओलम्पिक Committee, and the International स्की संघ.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes, CB, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 अप्रैल 1946 ) थी a British economist जिनकी विचार have fundamentally affected the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics, and informed the economic policies of governments.
He निर्मित on और greatly refined earlier कार्य on the causes of business cycles, और is widely considered to be one of the संस्थापकों of modern macroeconomics and the सबसे influential economist of the 20th century.
उसके ideas are the basis for the school of thought known as Keynesian economics, as खूब as its various offshoots.
In many ways, subsequent developments in 20th century economics can be viewed as either भवन on Keynes ' ideas or reacting विरूद्ध उन्हें.
in the 1930s, keynes spearheaded a क्रान्ति in economic thinking, overturning the पुरानी ideas of neoclassical economics that held कि free markets would, in the short to medium term, automatically provide full नियुक्ति, as long as मजदूर were flexible in their wage demands.
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand संकल्पित the overall स्तर of economic activity, and that inadequate aggregate माँग could lead to prolonged periods of ऊँची unemployment.
He advocated the use of fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate the प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of economic recessions and depressions.
Following the outbreak of the दूसरी World युद्ध, Keynes 's ideas concerning economic policy were adopted by leading Western economies.
In 1942, Keynes was awarded a hereditary peerage as Baron Keynes of Tilton in the काउंटी of ससेक्स.
Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s and 1960s the success of keynesian economics resulted in almost सब पूंजीवादी governments adopting इसके policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a परिणाम of problems that began to afflict the Anglo-American economies इससे the start of the decade, and partly because of critiques from Milton Friedman and other अर्थशास्त्रियों who were pessimistic परिचय the ability of governments to विनियमित the business साईकिल with fiscal policy.
However, the आगमन of the वैश्विक financial संकट in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for आर्थिक नीतियों undertaken in response to the संकट by Presidents George W. बुश and Barack Obama of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, and other heads of सरकारें.
In 1999, Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 most important and influential people of the 20th century, commenting कि : `` His radical idea that governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
In जोड to being an अर्थशास्त्री, Keynes थी also a सिविल servant, a director of the British Eugenics Society, a director of the बैंको of England, a patron of the arts और an आर्ट collector, a भाग of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals, an advisor to अनेक charitable trusts, a writer, a philosopher, a private investor, and a farmer.
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at the Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue.
The Ten आयतें, भी known as the Decalogue, are a set of biblical कानून relating to ethics and इबादत, which play a fundamental role in Judaism, Islam and Christianity.
They include instructions to worship तभी God, to keep the sabbath holy and prohibitions against idolatry, इनकार, हत्या, theft, deception and व्यभिचार.
Different groups follow slightly different traditions for interpreting and numbering them.
The Ten Commandments appear twice in the यहूदी Bible, in the books of Exodus और Deuteronomy.
according to the story in Exodus, God inscribed them on two stone tablets, which he दिया to Moses on माउंट Sinai.
Modern scholarship has found likely प्रभाव in hittite and Mesopotamian laws और treaties, but is विभाजित over exactly when the टेन Commandments were written and who wrote them.
The discography of the English alternative चट्टान band The Smiths consists of four studio albums, एक extended play ( EP ), one सजीव album, ten compilation albums, twenty singles, one video album and fourteen म्यूज़िक videos on the Rough Trade, Sire और WEA record labels.
The band was formed in 1982 in Manchester by vocalist morrissey, guitarist Johnny Marr, bass खिलाड़ी Andy Rourke और drummer Mike Joyce.
Despite being championed by BBC Radio 1 disc jockey John Peel, the band 's debut single, `` हाथ in Glove `` ( may 1983 ), विफल to चार्ट.
इसके follow-up, `` This आकर्षक Man `` ( October 1983 ), met साथ critical acclaim और पहुँचे क्रमांक twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart.
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984, as they पहुँचे number twelve in the uk with the `` What Difference करता It Make ? `` सिंगल and reached क्रमांक दो on the UK Albums Chart साथ their debut album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
Their next तीन singles all reached the top twenty of the charts in the UK, helping to consolidate उनके previous chart success.
The अगला studio एल्बम, Meat Is Murder ( 1985 ), reached the top of the British चार्ट ; however, the तभी single to be released from the album, `` That चुटकुला Is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ), विफल to break the UK Top 40.
Returning to form, The Smiths ' next six singles all पहुँचे the higher than क्रमांक thirty in the uk and their third एल्बम, The Queen Is मुर्दे ( 1986 ), reached number two in the uk.
despite the band 's चार्ट success, marr left the group in August 1987 due to a strained relationship साथ morrissey.
Failing to ढूँढें a बदलना, The Smiths disbanded by the time उनके फाइनल studio एल्बम, Strangeways, Here we आइये, थी released in September कि year.
Strangeways, Here We Come reached number two in the UK and became the band 's highest-charting release in the संयुक्त राज्य जब it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200.
In जल्दी 1992, wea acquired the entire back catalogue of The Smiths and produced two compilations – Best... I and... बेहतरीन II – the first of which reached the top of the UK Albums Chart.
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001, साथ a further compilation, The Sound of The Smiths, released in November 2008.
Gone with the Wind is a novel written by Margaret Mitchell, first प्रकाशित in 1936.
It is often placed in the literary sub-genre of the ऐतिहासिक romance novel.
However, it has महरूम argued the अनोखा is a `` near miss '' and does not contain all of the elements of the रोमांस genre, making it simply a historical अनोखा.
The story is set in क्लेटन County, जॉर्जिया, and Atlanta during the American Civil War and Reconstruction.
it depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner, who जरूर उपयोग every means at her disposal to आइये out of the poverty she पाता herself in after शरमन 's `` March to the Sea ''.
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone साथ the Wind in 1926 to pass the time while recovering from an auto-crash injury that refused to heal.
In April 1935, Harold Latham of Macmillan, an editor who was looking for new fiction, read कया she था written and saw that it could be a best-seller.
After लैथम agreed to publish the किताब, Mitchell worked लिये another छह months checking the historical references, और rewrote the खोलने chapter several times.
Mitchell and her husband जॉन Marsh, a copy editor by trade, edited the final version of the अनोखा.
Mitchell wrote the book 's final moments first, and then wrote the events that led up to it.
As to what became of her lovers, Rhett and Scarlett, after the novel ended, Mitchell did not know, and कहा, `` For all i जान, Rhett may have found someone else जो was less मुश्किल. ''
Mitchell प्राप्त the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction लिये the book in 1937.
The book थी adapted into a 1939 American फिल्मी.
Gone with the Wind is the only अनोखा by Mitchell published during her आजीवन.
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` अंदर '' ; और odons `` tooth '' ) is one of the dental specialties recognized by the American Dental Association, royal College of Dentists of Canada, and Royal Australasian कॉलेज of Dental अध्येतावृत्ति, and deals साथ the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth.
endodontists perform a किस्में of procedures including endodontic चिकित्सा ( commonly ज्ञात as `` रूट canal therapy '' ), endodontic retreatment, surgery, treating cracked दांत, and treating dental trauma.
Root canal चिकित्सा is one of the most common procedures.
If the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic tissue, और fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or घायल, endodontic treatment is required to save the दाँत.
सीरियल Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol that moves data to and from कंप्यूटर भंडार devices such as hard drives and टेप drives.
SAS replaces the पुरानी समानांतर scsi ( pronounced `` scuzzy '' ) bus technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, like its predecessor, उपयोग the standard SCSI command set.
SAS offers backward compatibility with second-generation SATA ड्राइव.
SATA 3 Gbit/s ड्राइव may be connected to SAS backplanes, but SAS drives can not connect to SATA backplanes.
The T10 तकनीकी committee of the International Committee for Information प्रौद्योगिकी Standards ( INCITS ) develops और maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology.
Part of the constitutional provision as it appeared in 1787
औकात as a natural-born citizen of the United राज्य is one of the eligibility requirements established in the United राज्य Constitution लिये election to the office of President or वाइस अध्यक्ष.
This requirement थी intended to protect the nation from foreign influence.
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born citizen, and various opinions have been offered over time regarding its precise meaning.
A 2011 Congressional Research सेवा report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause रै महरूम उल्लेखित in passing in several decisions of the संयुक्त राज्य Supreme अदालत and निम्नतर courts dealing with the question of पात्रता for citizenship by birth, but the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the सवाल of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born नागरिक.
Kurtis यूजीन `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22, 1971 ) is a former अमरीकी football player.
He निभाई quarterback for तीन National Football League ( NFL ) teams : the St. Louis Rams, the New York Giants, and the Arizona Cardinals.
he थी originally हस्ताक्षरित by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted free agent in 1994 after playing कॉलेज football at Northern Iowa.
Warner होता go on to be considered the best undrafted player of all time, following a 12-year career regarded as one of the greatest stories in एनएफएल इतिहास.
Warner first attained stardom while playing for the St. Louis Rams इससे 1998 to 2003, where he won two एनएफएल MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super कटोरी MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV.
he led the 2008 एरिज़ोना Cardinals to Super Bowl XLIII ( the franchise 's first Super Bowl berth ), and owns the तीन highest single-game passing yardage योग in सुपर Bowl history.
Warner फिलहाल holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ), and the third-highest career completion percentage in NFL इतिहास with 65.5 %.
in 13 career playoff games, Warner ranks first all-time in completion प्रतिशत ( 66.5 % ), yards प्रति attempt ( 8.55 ), and second in passer दरजा ( 102.8 ).
He also holds the उच्चतम completion प्रतिशत for a single game during the regular season, at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ), on September 20, 2009, against the Jacksonville Jaguars.
He announced his retirement on January 29, 2010. < ref name='CNN 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ; born May 26, 1953 ) is the junior United राज्य Senator from North Carolina, in office since जनवरी 2009.
Previously she served in the North Carolina Senate from 1999 to 2009.
She is a member of the Democratic Party and is viewed as a moderate member of उसके party.
When Hagan defeated रिपब्लिकन incumbent Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 United States Senate election, वो became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate चुनाव.
the Heisman Memorial ट्रॉफी Award ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ), is awarded annually to the player deemed the most outstanding player in कॉलेजिएट फ़ुटबॉल.
It was निर्मित in 1935 as the शहर Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's एथलेटिक director, John Heisman ( former Brown University and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football कोच at Oberlin कॉलेज, Auburn University, Clemson University, राइस University, and the विश्वविद्यालयों of Pennsylvania ; और football, बास्केट, and बेसबॉल सिर कोच and athletic निदेशक at Georgia तकनीक ).
The award is प्रस्तुत by the Heisman Trophy Trust in early December before the postseason bowl games.
it is the oldest of अनेक overall awards in college football, including the Maxwell Award, Walter शिविर Award, and the AP Player of the Year.
the Heisman और the ap Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding खिलाड़ी, while the Maxwell Award and Walter Camp Award recognize the best player, and the Archie Griffin पुरस्कार recognizes the most valuable player.
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the unified command ढांचा for the बहुराष्ट्रीय military forces supporting the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean युद्ध.
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded South Korea on June 25, 1950, the संयुक्त Nations सुरक्षा Council adopted Resolution 82 calling on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th समानांतर.
On June 27, 1950, it अपनाया Resolution 83, recommending that members of the United Nations provide सहायता to the गणतंत्र of Korea `` to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security to the area ''.
Security Council Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, recommended कि सदस्यों providing सैन्य forces and other assistance to South Korea `` make such forces and अन्य सहायता उपलब्धियाँ to a unified command under the United States of अमेरिका ''.
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC यहूद `` संयुक्त Nations forces '', और संयुक्त राष्ट्र itself could be considered a belligerent, in practice the United Nations exercised no कंट्रोल over the कॉम्बैट शक्तियां, which were controlled by the United राज्य.
Most observers concluded that the forces under the UNC were not in विधि United Nations सैनिकों, and the acts of the UNC were not the acts of the United राष्ट्र.
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance of national armies, operating अंतर्गत the सामूहिक right of self-defense.
on August 29, 1950, the British Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry ब्रिगेड arrived at Busan to join the UNC, which जबतक then included only ROK और U.S. शक्तियां.
The 27th Brigade स्थानांतरित into the naktong River line west of Daegu.
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia, belgian United Nations कमांड, Canada, Colombia, Ethiopia, France, Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the फिलीपीन, Thailand and Turkey.
The Union of South Africa provided air units which fought alongside the air forces of other member nations.
Denmark, इण्डिया, Norway, और स्वीडन provided medical units.
इटली provided a hospital, even though it was not a UN member.
The United Nations Command and the Chinese-North Korean Command signed the कोरियाई Armistice अनुबंध on 27 July 1953, ending the heavy fighting.
The armistice अनुबंध established the सैन्य Armistice Commission ( MAC ), consisting of representatives of the two signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice शर्तें.
The North korean-chinese MAC has been replaced by Panmumjon Representatives under exclusive उत्तर Korean management.
Regular meetings have महरूम रोका, although duty अधिकारियों of Joint Security Area, commonly ज्ञात as the Truce Village of panmunjom, from each side meet regularly.
Lincoln हाइट्स is an अमरीकी family नाटक television series about Eddie Sutton, a Mission Vista police officer who moves his family back to उसके old neighborhood, Lincoln Heights, to start a new life and to सहायता आउट his old neighborhood.
it is a dangerous place to raise a family, and through the many trials the family goes through, they soon learn that settling in is not as easy as it seems.
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life as a गली cop in लॉस Angeles, his बच्चे try to अनुरूप in at their new schools and with their new neighbors.
The दिखाएँ premiered January 8, 2007 on the ABC Family network साथ 13 episodes ordered for the first season.
It was approved for a second season, which premiered September 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' song, Say OK had been used in a commercial to promote the second season.
To promote the तीसरा ऋतु, they showed clips of cassie और Charles 's relationship to the song, Crush by the American Idol 's seventh season runner-up, दाउद Archuleta.
To promote ऋतु 4, they 're using the song, Avalanche by Marie digby.
the show 's theme song थी written and performed by bassist Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire reinhard.
On January 29, 2010, ABC Family घोषित the cancellation of the series बाद four seasons.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a आम name, structure, and doctrine within Christianity.
In the Orthodox tradition, churches are divided प्रायः along ethnic and linguistic lines, into separate churches और traditions.
Technically, विभाजन between one group और another are defined by doctrine and church authority.
Issues such as the nature of Jesus, the authority of apostolic succession, eschatology, and papal primacy पृथक one denomination from another.
The रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion सदस्यों, over half of all Christians worldwide, making it the largest denomination for any religion worldwide ( हालांकि the church करता not view itself as a denomination, लकिन as the असली pre-denominational church ).
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide, and together the Catholics, Protestants, Anglicans, और other closely related denominations comprise Western Christianity.
The Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodox Churches and the Assyrian Church of the ईस्ट are माना Eastern Christian denominations.
Western ईसाई denominations prevail in Western यूरोपीय and इसके पूर्व colonies.
Eastern Christian denominations are represented ज़्यादातर in Eastern Europe, the मध्य East and North Africa.
Christians have विभिन्न doctrines about the Church, the body of faithful कि they मानना was established by यीशु Christ, and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
दोनो the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One Holy कैथोलिक और अपोस्टोलिक Church to the exclusion of the other.
Protestants separated from the Catholic Church because of theologies and practices कि they माना to be in violation of their interpretation.
Generally, members of the विभिन्न denominations acknowledge each other as Christians, at least to the extent that वे have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox views including the Divinity of Jesus and doctrines of sin and salvation, even हालांकि doctrinal और ecclesiological obstacles रोकते full communion between churches.
चूंकि the reforms surrounding वेटिकन II, the Catholic गिरिजाघर has referred to Protestant communities as `` denominations '', while reserving the term `` church '' for apostolic churches, सहित the पूर्वी Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ).
वहीँ are however some non-denominational Christians who do not follow any particular branch.
The पांडा ( Ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and white cat-foot '' ), भी known as the giant पांडा to distinguish it इससे the unrelated red panda, is a भालू native to central-western and दक्षिण western China.
it is easily recognized by the large, distinctive black patches around its eyes, over the कानों, and across its round body.
Though it belongs to the order Carnivora, the पांडा 's आहार is 99 % bamboo.
Pandas in the wild होगा occasionally eat अन्य grasses, wild tubers, or even meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, they may प्राप्त honey, eggs, मछली, yams, shrub leaves, संतरे, or bananas along साथ specially prepared खाना.
the दानव panda lives in a few mountain ranges in central China, मुख्यतः in Sichuan province, but also in the Shaanxi and गांसू provinces.
As a परिणाम of खेती, deforestation और other development, the panda has been चलित out of the lowland areas where it एकबार lived.
The panda is a संरक्षण reliant endangered species.
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity inside China और another 27 outside the देश.
Wild population estimates vary ; one अनुमान shows that there are about 1,590 individuals living in the wild, while a 2006 study via डीएनए analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000.
Some reports also show that the number of pandas in the wild is on the वृद्धि.
However, the IUCN करता नहीं believe वहीँ is पर्याप्त certainty yet to reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable.
While the dragon has प्रायः served as China 's national emblem, internationally the panda appears at तनिक as commonly.
As such, it is becoming widely used within चीन in international contexts, for example the five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics.
The Kite Runner is a 2007 अमरीकी drama film directed by Marc Forster based on the novel of the same name by Khaled hosseini.
It tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do लड़के from the Wazir Akbar खान ज़िला of काबुल, who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his friend Hassan, the son of his father 's hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events, इससे the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the सोवियत military हस्तक्षेप, the mass exodus of Afghan refugees to Pakistan and the United States, and the Taliban शासन.
Though most of the film is set in Afghanistan, these भाग were mostly shot in Kashgar, China, due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time.
The majority of the film 's dialogue is in जमींदारी, with the remainder spoken in English.
The child अभिनेताओं are native अध्यक्षों, but अनेक adult actors had to learn Dari.
Filming लपेटा up on दिसम्बर 21, 2006, and the फिल्मी was expected to be released on नवम्बर 2, 2007.
However, after चिंता लिये the safety of the young अभिनेताओं in the film due to fears of हिंसक reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in जिससे they appear, इसके release date was pushed back six weeks to दिसम्बर 14, 2007.
The Kite Runner थी released on DVD on कूच 25, 2008.
A HD DVD release थी announced लिये the same date, but was canceled following the स्वरूप 's demise.
The film was nominated for the सुनहरी Globe Award for Best विदेशी Language Film in 2007.
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias थी nominated for बेहतरीन असली Score at the Golden Globes और the Academy Awards.
The legality of कैनबिस varies from country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries और has been since the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the possession of छोटी quantities of cannabis, particularly in North America, दक्षिण अमेरिका and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, उत्तर Korea and होता be in the U.S. states of कोलोराडो और Washington if it were not for federal law, जिससे governs व्यक्तियों in all राज्य.
The औषधीय use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries, including Canada, the Czech Republic और Israel.
While संघीय law in the United States bans all sale and possession of कैनबिस, enforcement varies widely at the राज्य level and some राज्य have established औषधीय marijuana कार्यक्रम in कि contradict संघीय law ; two states ( Colorado और Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a नियामक regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य लकिन, apart इससे the countries कि offer अभिगम to चिकित्सा marijuana, most देशों have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation, use, कब्ज़ा or transfer of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened दंड for possession of small quantities of cannabis, making it punishable by confiscation and a fine, rather than कारावास.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or frequent users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit कैनबिस use for औषधीय purposes.
There are भी changes in a more restrictive दिशा as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many countries और have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in parts of ईस्ट Asia and Southeast Asia where the बिक्री of cannabis may सीसे to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
Loxahatchee is a community स्तिथ in ताड़ Beach County, Florida, United States.
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and वेस्ट and उत्तरपश्चिम of Royal Palm Beach, फ्लोरिडा and approximately west of West Palm Beach.
Loxahatchee is भी the नाम of the Post Office that serves this area, which is under the zip code of 33470.
The name Loxahatchee means `` turtle river. ''
Loxahatchee is located भीतर the Indian Trails सुधार District और the Loxahatchee groves Water Control ज़िला.
Lion देश Safari, a drive-through safari park, is स्तिथ in Loxahatchee.
In 2006, the state of Florida स्वीकृत incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as the Town of Loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th municipality in Palm Beach County.
the प्रमुख reason लिये incorporating was to बेहतर protect the क्षेत्रफल from encroaching growth and to preserve the rural अक्षर of the neighborhood.
Perhaps the most ग्रामीण area within a बंद proximity to वेस्ट Palm बीच, with lot sizes range from 1-20 acres.
Along with The Acreage, it is notable for loose land restrictions and the native and exotic animal presence is quite notable.
Seminole Ridge High School serves the area.
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test, administered by Citizenship and Immigration Canada ( CIC ), कि is required for all applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 and who मिलें the basic requirements for citizenship.
The परीक्षण is available in both French and English, the official भाषाएं of Canada.
Renaissance Cruises, originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway, बाद purchased by Edward rudner ( founder of Alamo Car rental ) as the कम्पनी faltered during the Gulf War.
They संचालित year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean, the यूनानी Isles, Tahiti and the South प्रशांत, Northern Europe and scandinavia.
the company ceased operations on 25 सितंबर 2001 and accommodated up to 220,000 guests in 2000.
While the company had been in ग़रीब financial health for quite some time, the economic decline resulting from the September 11th आतंकवादी attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line.
The fleet is listed under List of cruise ships.
it was headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, फ्लोरिडा.
epithelium is one of the four मौलिक types of एनिमल tissue, साथ with connective ऊतक, muscle tissue और nervous ऊतक.
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and सतहों of structures throughout the body, and भी रूप many glands.
Functions of epithelial cells include secretion, selective अवशोषण, protection, transcellular transport and detection of सनसनी.
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '', and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
Epithelial layers are avascular, so they must receive nourishment via diffusion of substances इससे the underlying connective tissue, through the basement झिल्ली.
Epithelia can also be organized into clusters of कोशिकाएं that function as exocrine and endocrine glands.
Kent E. Hovind ( born January 15, 1953 ) is an American young Earth creationist.
Hovind has बोला on creation science और has aimed to convince listeners to reject theories of evolution, geophysics, और cosmology in favor of his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative इससे the Bible.
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and some of उसके ideas have also been criticized by young Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis.
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991, and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools and churches, debates, and on radio और टेलीविज़न प्रसारण.
Since January 2007, hovind has महरूम serving a ten-year थाना sentence बाद being convicted of 58 federal counts, सहित 12 tax offenses, one count of obstructing federal agents, and 45 counts of structuring नकदी transactions.
He is incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution at Berlin, New Hampshire.
Bride with बिंदी decorated माथे
a बिंदी (, from Sanskrit bindu, meaning `` a drop, small particle, dot '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil, Telugu, and मलयालम ) is a forehead decoration worn in South Asia ( particularly India, बांग्लादेश, Nepal, Sri Lanka और मॉरीशस ) and Southeast Asia.
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red रंग applied in the center of the माथे close to the eyebrows, but it can भी consist of a चिह्न or piece of jewelry worn at this स्थान.
the New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday, November 2, 2010, to elect the Governor of New York, to serve a four-year term कि began in January 2011.
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson, elected as Lieutenant राज्यपाल in 2006 as the running mate of former राज्यपाल एलियट Spitzer, chose not to run for a full-term.
On November 2, नई यॉर्क attorney General and Democrat एंड्रयू Cuomo पराजित रिपब्लिकन कार्ल paladino.
Green पार्टी candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 मत, allowing the New York Green Party to be listed on the ballot for the next 4 years.
the प्रमुख cast of Dragon Ball at the end of the manga.
The ड्रैगन Ball manga और दुश्मनी श्रेणी features an extensive cast of characters created by Akira Toriyama.
The series takes प्लेस in a fictional ब्रह्मांड, the same as toriyama 's पिछला series Dr. Slump, and फ़ॉलो the adventures of martial artist Son Goku इससे childhood to adulthood as he खोज for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls, used to summon a wish-granting dragon.
During the course of the story, he मुठभेड़ों allies such as Bulma, Yamcha, Kuririn and Trunks, rivals such as tenshinhan, Piccolo and Vegeta, and enemies ऐसे as Freeza and Cell.
While many of the characters हैं humans with superhuman strength and/or supernatural abilities, the cast also includes anthropomorphic animals and later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
The series also includes depictions of the afterlife, with several characters होने gods that govern the universe.
250px
The comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory, known as Comancheria, consisted of उपस्थित day eastern New Mexico, southern कोलोराडो, northeastern Arizona, दक्षिणी कान्सास, all of Oklahoma, and most of northwest Texas.
the Comanche people are enrolled in the federally recognized Comanche Nation, in Oklahoma.
Historically, the Comanches were hunter-gatherers with a horse culture.
There may have महरूम as अनेक as 45,000 Comanches in the late 18th सदी.
Today, the comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment numbers 15,191 with approximately 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest Oklahoma.
The Comanche Nation Homecoming Powwow is आयोजित annually in Walters, Oklahoma in mid-july.
The Comanche spoke the Comanche language, a Numic भाषा of the Uto-Aztecan family, sometimes वर्गीकृत as a Shoshone dialect ; however, only परिचय 1 % of Comanches बोलो it today.
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the Pulitzer पुरस्कार -winning अमरीकी लेखक Edith Wharton.
It is set in the fictitious town of Starkfield, Massachusetts.
The novel थी adapted into a film, Ethan frome, in 1993.
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American टेलीविज़न studio स्तिथ in the Times Square neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New यॉर्क City, New यॉर्क.
the studio is best known as the production घर of ABC News ' शुभ morning अमेरिका ( जीएमए ), a morning न्यूज and talk program and segments लिये GMA on ABC News Now.
The लास Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, रेस्तरां, और vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola कम्पनी of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the संयुक्त States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought आउट by businessman asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its दबदबा of the world soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
The bottlers, who थाम territorially exclusive अनुबंध with the कम्पनी, produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then बेचें, distribute और merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending मशीने.
Such bottlers शामिल Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also बिकता concentrate for soda fountains to प्रमुख रेस्तरां and food service वितरकों.
The Coca-Cola Company रै, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks अंतर्गत the Coke brand नाम.
The most common of these is Diet कोक, साथ others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, coca-cola Zero, Coca-Cola वैनिला, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
आधारित on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's most मूल्यवान ब्रांड.
प्रकार of bar-lines
In musical notation, a bar ( or measure ) is a segment of time पारिभाषित by a given क्रमांक of beats, each of जिससे हैं assigned a particular note value.
dividing music into bars provides regular reference अंक to pin पाइंट locations within a piece of music.
it also makes written music easier to follow, since each bar of staff symbols can be read and निभाई as a batch.
typically, a piece consists of several bars of the same length, and in modern musical notation the number of beats in each bar is specified at the शुरूआत of the score by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ), while the bottom number indicates the नोट value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter नोट मान in the 3/4 example ).
The word bar is more आम in British अंग्रेज़ी, and the शब्द measure is more common in American English, although musicians generally understand both usages.
In अमरीकी English, although the शब्द बार और measure हैं often प्रयुक्त interchangeably the correct use of the word 'bar ' refers तभी to the vertical line itself, while the word 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars.
In international usage, it is equally correct to speak of bar numbers and माप numbers, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
Along the same lines, it is हिकमत to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ इत्यादि. for beats only ; bars should be referred to by name in full.
The पहला metrically complete माप within a टुकड़ा of म्यूज़िक is पुकारा ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the टुकड़ा begins with an anacrusis ( an incomplete measure at the head of a piece of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can सप्लाई power 24 hours a दिन.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the सूर्य, has been harnessed by humans since प्राचीन times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
सौर energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and कृत्रिम photosynthesis, जिससे can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent उर्जा problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way वे capture, convert and वितरित solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and सौर thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, और designing स्पेसेस that naturally circulate air.
in 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have विशाल longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy सुरक्षा through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, निम्नतर the costs of mitigating जलवायु change, और keep चट्टान fuel कीमतें lower than otherwise.
These advantages are global.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for जल्दी deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
प्राथमिक care may be provided in community स्वास्थ्य centres.
Primary care is the health care given by a health care provider.
Typically this provider acts as the principal पाइंट of परामर्श for patients भीतर a स्वास्थ्य care system और coordinates other specialists that the रोगी may need.
Such a professional can be a प्राथमिक परवाह physician, such as a general practitioner or family physician, or depending on the locality, health system organization, and patient 's discretion, they may see a pharmacist, a physician assistant, a nurse practitioner, a nurse ( such as in the United Kingdom ), a नैदानिक officer ( such as in parts of Africa ), or an आयुर्वेदिक or other परंपरागत medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ).
Depending on the nature of the health कंडीशन, patients may then be referred for secondary or tertiary care.
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a song recorded by American pop पंक group Yellowcard.
it was released in February 2004 as the second single from Ocean Avenue and the तीसरा track.
it is known for bringing them into the मुख्यधारा, as it received numerous spins on एमटीवी and increasing radio airplay.
Ocean Avenue is a street in jacksonville, Florida, the बैंड 's stomping grounds near their high school, Douglas Anderson School of the कला, and another street mentioned in the song, Cherry गली.
The name of Ocean Avenue in Jacksonville is actually Beach Boulevard.
They left उनके original base behind when they moved to Los Angeles.
The song थी featured on the Much Music संकलन album Big Shiny Tunes 9.
A psychiatrist is a physician who specializes in psychiatry.
A psychiatrist specializes in the उपचार of mental disorders.
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine, conduct physical examinations, order and interpret प्रयोगशाला tests, उपयोग psychotherapy and may order brain imaging studies such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ), magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ), और positron उत्सर्जन टोमोग्राफी ( PET ) scanning.
भीतर the framework of the संसार स्वास्थ्य Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, reproductive health, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, कृत्यों and system at all stages of life.
Reproductive health, therefore, implies that लोगों are able to have a responsible, संतोषजनक and safer sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, जब and how often to do so.
One interpretation of this implies that men और women ought to be सूचित of and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of birth कंट्रोल ; also access to appropriate स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं of यौन, reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the महत्व of women to go सकुशल through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant.
on the other hand individuals do face inequalities in reproductive health services.
inequalities vary based on socioeconomic status, शिक्षा level, age, ethnicity, religion, और resources available in their environment.
it is possible for example, that low आय individuals lack the संसाधन for appropriate health सेवाएं and the ज्ञान to know what is उचित for maintaining reproductive स्वास्थ्य.
according to the जो, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of the global burden of ill-health for women, and 14 % for men. ''
Reproductive health is a part of यौन and reproductive health और rights.
This is a list of episodes for the Disney Channel असली series The Suite Life on डेक, which aired for three seasons on डिज़्नी Channel from September 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a ब्रांड encompassing a range of Intel 's उपभोक्ता 64-bit x86-64 single-, dual-, and quad-core microprocessors based on the Core microarchitecture.
The single- and dual-core models are single- die, whereas the quad-core models comprise two dies, each containing two cores, packaged in a multi-chip मोड्यूल.
The परिचय of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand to the mid-range market, और reunified laptop और desktop CPU lines, which previously had been divided into the Pentium 4, pentium D, और Pentium m ब्रांड्स.
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 जुलाई 2006, comprising the Solo ( single-core ), Duo ( dual-core ), Quad ( quad-core ), और in 2007, the Extreme ( dual- or quad-core CPUs लिये enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors साथ vPro technology ( designed लिये व्यवसायों ) include the dual-core और quad-core branches.
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the नेशनल Football लीग ( एनएफएल ), the highest level of professional American football in the United States, culminating a ऋतु कि begins in the लेट summer of the पिछला calendar साल.
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to पहचानो प्रत्येक game, rather than the year in which it is आयोजित.
For example, Super Bowl I थी निभाई on January 15, 1967, following the 1966 regular season, जबकि सुपर Bowl XLVII was played on February 3, 2013, following the 2012 season.
The game was निर्मित as part of a merger अनुबंध between the एनएफएल and its then-rival league, the American Football League ( AFL ).
It was agreed that the दो leagues ' चैंपियन teams would play in an AFL–NFL World Championship Game until the merger was to officially begin in 1970.
After the merger, each league was redesignated as a `` conference ``, and the game was then played between the conference champions.
Currently, the नेशनल Football Conference ( NFC ) leads the श्रेणी साथ 25 विन्स to 22 wins for the American Football Conference ( AFC ).
The day on which the Super कटोरी is निभाई, now considered by some a de facto American national holiday, is called `` Super Bowl संडे ``.
It is the second-largest day for U.S. food consumption, after Thanksgiving दिन.
In addition, the Super Bowl has अक्सर been the most watched American television broadcast of the साल.
सुपर Bowl XLV, played in 2011, became the most-watched American television program in history, drawing an औसत audience of 111 लाख viewers और taking over the स्पॉट held by the previous year 's सुपर Bowl, which itself had taken over the # 1 स्पॉट held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H.
The Super Bowl is also among the most देखी sporting events in the world, almost all being North American ऑडियंस, and is second to संघ football ’s UEFA champions League final as the most watched सालाना sporting event worldwide.
Because of its ऊँची viewership, commercial airtime दौरान the Super Bowl broadcast is the most expensive of the year.
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on the Super Bowl, companies regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this broadcast.
As a result, watching and discussing the broadcast 's commercials has become a significant aspect of the इवेंट.
In addition, many लोकप्रिय गायकों and संगीतकारों have performed during the event 's pre-game और halftime ceremonies because of the exposure.
Fiona is a feminine given name.
The name Fiona was invented, and first used, by the Scottish poet James Macpherson ( 1736–96 ), author of the Ossian poems, which he claimed यहूद अनुवाद from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources, जब challenged, he never produced ).
The name थी subsequently used as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ), who authored अनेक romantic works under the name `` फिओना Macleod ''.
The name has चूंकि become लोकप्रिय in इंग्लैण्ड, स्कॉटलैंड and Ireland.
The name is considered to be a Latinised रूप of the गैलिक शब्द fionn, meaning `` white '', `` fair ''.
The name Fiona is also sometimes प्रयुक्त as an Anglicisation of the irish-language name Fíona, although these names are वरना unrelated ( as Fíona is derived from an तत्व meaning `` vine '' ).
There is also a modern tendency to equate the authentic Scottish Gaelic feminine name Fionnghal with Fiona.
The नाम फिओना is rising in popularity particularly in जर्मनी -speaking countries.
Fiona थी the 49th सबसे लोकप्रिय name for baby girls born in 2008 in Germany.
फिओना was tied for third प्लेस in the ranking of सबसे लोकप्रिय names for baby girls born in the छोटा principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
The name was the 347th most popular name for लड़कियों born in the United States in 2008, जहाँ it has क्रमित among the top 1,000 most popular names लिये लड़कियों चूंकि 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999.
the name फिओना has been particularly popular लिये girls of Asian or Pacific Islander descent in New York City, जहाँ फिओना क्रमित as the ninth most लोकप्रिय name for girls from those groups in 2007.
Many languages are प्रयुक्त, or historically have been used in the United राज्य.
The most commonly used language is English.
There हैं also many languages indigenous to North America or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region.
भाषाएं brought to the country by colonists or आप्रवासियों from Europe, Asia, or other भाग of the world make up a large portion of the languages फिलहाल प्रयुक्त ; several languages, सहित creoles और चिह्न भाषाएं, have also विकसित in the संयुक्त States.
Approximately 337 languages are spoken or हस्ताक्षरित by the population, of which 176 are indigenous to the क्षेत्रफल.
Fifty-two भाषाएं formerly spoken in the country 's territory are now extinct.
The variety of English spoken in the United States is known as American English.
English is the de facto नेशनल language of the संयुक्त States, with 80 % of the population claiming it as a mother tongue, and some 95 % claiming to speak it `` खूब '' or `` very well ''.
However, no official language exists at the federal level.
There have been several proposals to make English the national language in amendments to immigration reform bills, but none of these bills has become law with the amendment intact.
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels, with some states mirroring the संघीय policy of adopting no official language in a de jure क्षमता, others adopting English alone, others officially adopting English as well as local languages, and still others adopting a नीति of de facto bilingualism.
Spanish is the second most common भाषा in the country, and is spoken by over 12 % of the population.
The संयुक्त States holds the संसार 's पांचवां largest Spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by मैक्सिको, Spain, Colombia, and Argentina.
throughout the Southwestern United States, long-established Spanish-speaking communities coexist with large numbers of more हाल Hispanophone आप्रवासियों.
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less than fluent in English, nearly all second-generation Hispanic Americans speak English fluently, while only about half still speak स्पेनी.
According to the 2000 us census, people of जर्मनी ancestry make up the largest सिंगल ethnic group in the United States, and the German language बाँधने fifth.
इतालवी, Polish, and French are still widely spoken among populations descending from immigrants from those देशों in the early 20th century, but the use of these languages is dwindling as the older generations die.
रूसी is also spoken by immigrant populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one million speakers each in the United राज्य, almost entirely within recent immigrant populations.
Both languages, along साथ the varieties of the Chinese भाषा, Japanese, और Korean, are now प्रयुक्त in elections in Alaska, California, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, Texas, और Washington.
Native American languages are spoken in smaller pockets of the country, but these populations are decreasing, and the भाषाएं are almost never widely used outside of reservations.
Hawaiian, although having few देशी speakers, is an official language along with English at the state level in Hawaii.
The राज्य सरकारी of Louisiana offers सेवाएं और documents in French, as does New मैक्सिको in Spanish.
besides English, Spanish, French, German, Navajo and other Native American भाषाएं, सब other languages are usually learned इससे अप्रवासी पूर्वजो that came बाद the time of independence or learned through some form of education.
1990 's Pontiac Grand Am Sedan फेंडर and quarter panel
On an automobile, a quarter फलक ( or rear wing as it is known in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) is प्रायः considered the देह panel जिससे goes between the पश्च door and the trunk and typically wraps around the व्हील well ; however, the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ), between the द्वार and the हुड, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel.
The quarter panel is typically made of चादर metal, but is sometimes made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced plastic ; although, this varies with different makes and models.
A क्वार्टर panel is typically a welded on घटक of the uni-body structure or monocoque.
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter फलक typically requires it to be cut off the vehicle and a बदलना part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle.
Due to this high amount of specialized labor, a quarter panel may often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering आउट the damage, and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original सतह.
shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated, in print only, Shrops ) is a county in the West Midlands region of England.
It borders वेल्स to the west, Cheshire to the उत्तर, staffordshire to the east, Worcestershire to the south-east and herefordshire to the south.
A unitary authority ( shropshire Council ) थी created on 1 April 2009, लेने over इससे the previous county council and 5 ज़िला councils, and covers most of the काउंटी.
The बरो of Telford और Wrekin has महरूम a पृथक unitary प्राधिकार since 1998 but continues to be included in the ceremonial county.
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the काउंटी कस्बा of Shrewsbury, which is culturally और historically important and is located in the centre of the county ; telford, a नई town in the ईस्ट which was constructed around a क्रमांक of पुरानी towns, most notably Wellington, dawley and Madeley, which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford, and Ludlow in the दक्षिण.
The county रै many further market towns, सहित whitchurch in the north, Newport बस to the north-east of Telford, and Market Drayton in the north-east of the county.
The Ironbridge Gorge क्षेत्रफल is a UNESCO World Heritage साईट, covering Ironbridge, Coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley.
वहीँ हैं, additionally, other notable historic औद्योगिक साइट located around the county, such as at Shrewsbury, broseley, Snailbeach और Highley as well as the Shropshire संघ Canal.
The shropshire Hills क्षेत्रफल of Outstanding Natural सौंदर्य कवर about a quarter of the county, mainly in the दक्षिण.
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely populated counties, with the population density of the Shropshire Council area होने बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
The Wrekin is one of the most प्रसिद्ध natural landmarks in the काउंटी, though the highest hills are the Clee Hills, Stiperstones और the Long mynd.
Wenlock Edge is another significant geographical and geological landmark.
In the low-lying northwest of the काउंटी ( and overlapping the border with Wales ) is the fenn 's, whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve, one of the सबसे important and बेहतरीन preserved bogs in Britain.
The River Severn, Great Britain 's longest river, runs through the county, exiting into Worcestershire via the severn Valley.
Shropshire is landlocked, and with an area of, is इंग्लैण्ड 's largest अंतर्देशीय काउंटी.
The county flower is the round-leaved sundew.
For Eurostat purposes, the काउंटी ( less the unitary district of telford and wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code ukg22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial county ), together with the authorities covering the ceremonial county of Staffordshire, comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009, from left : Kunal Nayyar, Simon Helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, and जॉनी galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang सिद्धान्त, created and कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates शेल्डन Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring अभिनेत्री who lives across the हॉल ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist राजेश Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have महरूम promoted to starring भूमिकाएँ : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 नियमित ; season 3 guest ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at different times, a प्रेमी of both Leonard और हावर्ड ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent बीवी, and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present नियमित ), who joins the समूह after होने matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; और कॉमिक किताब store-owner, Stuart खिलते ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present नियमित ), जो replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The दिखाएँ also features numerous supporting characters, each of whom plays a prominent role in a छोटी group of episodes.
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television series, running from 1983 to 1987, about a fictional समूह of ex– United States Army Special Forces personnel who कार्य as soldiers of सौभाग्य, while on the चलाएं from the Army after होने branded as war अपराधियों for a `` crime they did n't commit ``.
A feature film based on the series was released by 20th Century Fox on June 11, 2010.
A comic book series, A-Team : Shotgun Wedding, began March 9, 2010.
Diana प्रिंस is a fictional character appearing regularly in stories published by DC Comics.
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942 ) and serves as the civilian and secret identity of the सुपरहीरो Wonder स्त्री.
The character was created by Charles Moulton and हैरी G. Peter.
Wat Phra Kaew, Bangkok, थाईलैंड
There is no आधिकारिक state religion in the Thai constitution, which guarantees religious freedom for all Thai citizens, though the king is required by विधि to be बौद्ध.
According to the last census ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of thais are Buddhists of the थेरवाद tradition.
Muslims are the second largest religious group in Thailand at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani, Yala, Narathiwat and part of Songkhla Chumphon have dominant मुस्लिम populations, consisting of दोनो ethnic Thai और Malay.
The southern टिप of Thailand is mostly ethnic Malays.
ईसाइयों, mainly Catholics, represent 0.7 % of the जनसांख्यिकी.
A small but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some Hindus also live in the country 's शहरों, and are heavily engaged in retail कॉमर्स.
वहीँ is भी a small Jewish community in Thailand, dating back to the 17th सदी.
Since 2001, Muslim कार्यकर्ताओं, generally वर्णित by the Thai government as terrorists or separatists, have rallied against the central government because of alleged भ्रष्टाचार और ethnic bias on the part of officials.
Thailand 's Department of Religion, currently अंतर्गत the Ministry of Culture, is formally जिम्मेदार लिये the registration of religious groups in Thailand URL_http जिससे hold properties through legally established foundations.
It has oversight, along with the Immigration पुलिस, over the कार्य permits of missionaries who are `` प्रवासी religious workers '' of सब धर्मों.
A मान added tax ( VAT ) is a form of consumption tax.
From the perspective of the buyer, it is a tax on the purchase price.
इससे that of the विक्रेता, it is a tax तभी on the value added to a product, material, or service, from an accounting point of view, by this stage of इसके manufacture or वितरण.
The manufacturer remits to the government the अंतर between ये two amounts, and retains the rest for themselves to offset the कर they था previously paid on the inputs.
The value added to a product by or with a कारोबार is the sale price charged to its ग्राहक, ऋण the cost of सामग्री and other taxable inputs.
A VAT is like a sales tax in that ultimately only the end consumer is taxed.
It differs from the sales tax in that, साथ the latter, the tax is collected and remitted to the सरकारी तभी एकबार, at the point of खरीदें by the end consumer.
With the vat, collections, remittances to the सरकारी, and credits लिये taxes already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products.
a रेफरी calling a high-sticking penaltyhigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur जब a player intentionally or inadvertently plays with his or her stick above the height of the कन्धों or ऊपर the cross bar of a hockey goal.
This can result in a stoppage of play or in a दंड.
in the rules of the National Hockey लीग, high-sticking is defined as a penalty in नियम 60 and as a non-penalty foul in नियम 80.
A stoppage in play results if a high stick comes in contact with the पक and the team जो touched it regains control of the puck.
However, play usually continues if a खिलाड़ी touches the puck with a high stick and the opposing team gains कंट्रोल of the पक.
If the पक goes into the opposing net after coming into सम्पर्क with a high स्टिक, the goal is disallowed.
The level at which a स्टिक is considered too ऊँची for a goal is the crossbar of the net.
However, if a player knocks the puck into उसके own net साथ a high stick, the लक्ष्य is allowed.
A penalty is assessed if a player strikes another player with a high stick.
The player is दिए a minor दंड जबतक his ऊँची स्टिक caused an injury, in which case the रेफरी has the option to assess a double-minor, major or match penalty.
It is the referee 's discretion which penalty to assess : the rule काल्स for a double नाबालिग for an accidental injury, or a match दंड for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was दरअसल injured ).
चोट is usually decided by the high stick causing bleeding, लकिन the presence of blood does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to पुरस्कार an extra दंड बगैर the presence of blood if the referee determines that the injury sustained थी sufficient to warrant a double-minor दंड.
Typical modern memory card reader, संगत with many common formats
A मेमोरी card रीडर is a device, typically having a USB इंटरफ़ेस, for accessing the data on a memory card ऐसे as a CompactFlash ( CF ), Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( mmc ).
Most card पाठक भी offer write capability, and together साथ the card, this can function as a pen drive.
Some printers and निजी computers have a built-in card reader.
A multi card reader is प्रयुक्त for communication with more than one type of flash memory card.
Multi कार्ड पाठक do नहीं have built-in memory capacity, but हैं समर्थ to accept multiple types and शैलियाँ of memory cards.
The number of compatible memory cards varies from reader to reader and can शामिल more than 20 different types.
The number of different मेमोरी cards that a multi कार्ड reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, with x होने a figure of merit indicating the क्रमांक of memory cards स्वीकृत, such as 35-in-1.
There are three categories of card readers sorted by the type and quantity of the card slots : single card reader ( e.g. 1x sd-only ), मल्टी card reader ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) और श्रेणी card reader ( e.g. 4x sd only ).
Some kinds of memory cards साथ their own USB functions do not need the card रीडर, such as the Intelligent स्टिक memory card, which can plug directly into a USB slot.
The USB यंत्र class used is 0x08.
Bullying is detrimental to students ' well-being and development.
Bullying is the use of force or coercion to abuse or intimidate अन्य.
The behavior can be habitual और involve an imbalance of social or शारीरिक power.
It can include verbal harassment or threat, physical assault or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards particular victims, शायद on grounds of race, religion, gender, sexuality, or ability.
If bullying is done by a समूह, it is पुकारा mobbing.
The victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
Bullying can be defined in many अलग तरीके.
the uk currently has no legal परिभाषा of bullying, while some U.S. states have कानून against it.
Bullying consists of three basic प्रकार of गाली – emotional, verbal, and physical.
It typically involves subtle methods of coercion such as intimidation.
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one bullying to more complex bullying in which the bully may have one or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying क्रियाएँ.
Bullying in school और the workplace is also referred to as peer abuse.
Robert W. Fuller has analyzed धमकाना in the context of rankism.
A bullying culture can develop in any context in जिससे human beings interact with each other.
This includes स्कूल, church, family, the workplace, home, and पड़ोस.
Happy slapping in the Instituto Regional Federico Errázuriz, Santa Cruz, Chile
Laura बुश और rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4, 2007, in Austin, Texas, after the 8-year-old introduced Mrs. Bush during announcement of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the नेशनल Center for लापता and Exploited Children.
rae leigh was the first child in the U.S. to be बरामद as a result of an AMBER Alert when वो was 8 weeks old in November 1998.
an AMBER Alert or a Child abduction Emergency ( SAME कोड : CAE ) is a चाइल्ड abduction alert system originating in 1996, now employed in 9 countries.
AMBER is officially a backronym लिये America 's Missing : Broadcasting Emergency जवाब, named for Amber Hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in आर्लिंगटन, Texas in 1996.
Alternate regional alert names were once प्रयुक्त ; in Georgia, `` Levi 's Call '' ( named बाद Levi Frady ) ; in Hawaii, `` Maile Amber Alert '' ( after Maile Gilbert ) ; और अरकंसास, `` Morgan उपनाम Amber Alert '' ( in memory of मॉर्गन Chauntel Nick ).
AMBER Alerts हैं distributed via commercial radio stations, Internet radio, satellite radio, television स्टेशन, and cable TV by the Emergency Alert प्रणाली and noaa मौसम Radio ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` एम्बर चेतावनियाँ '' ).
The alerts are also issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition लक्षण, the LED billboards जिससे are located बाहर of newer Walgreens locations, along साथ the LED/LCD signs of billboard कंपनियाँ such as Clear चैनल Outdoor, CBS Outdoor and लैमर, or through wireless device SMS text messages.
एम्बर Alert has also teamed up with Google and Facebook to relay information regarding an एम्बर चेतावनी to an ever growing demographic.
Those दिलचस्पी in subscribing to प्राप्त AMBER चेतावनियाँ in their area via SMS संदेश can visit Wireless Amber Alerts, which are offered by law as free messages.
In some states, the display scrollboards in सामने of lottery terminals are also used.
the निर्णय to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each पुलिस organization ( in many मामले, the state police or highway patrol ) which investigates प्रत्येक of the abductions.
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the नाम and description of the abductee, a description of the suspected abductor, और a वर्णन and license plate number of the abductor 's vehicle, if उपलब्धियाँ.
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born जुलाई 23, 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President विधेयक Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 और 1996.
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
हाउस of Night is a series of vampire -themed काल्पनिक novels by American author P. C. Cast and her daughter kristin डाल.
it follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird, a sixteen-year-old girl जो has just become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is जरूरी to attend the हाउस of Night boarding school in तुलसा, Oklahoma.
The series has been on the New यॉर्क Times Best Seller सूची for 63 weeks and there हैं over seven million copies in print in North America alone.
The छठे novel, Tempted, जिससे गई on sale on अक्तूबर 27, 2009 साथ a first printing of a million copies, डाला the यूएसए Today bestseller list कि week at # 1.
In January, 2010, Gezeichnet, a German translation of Marked, पहुँचे the # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestseller list.
The series रै so far sold more than ten million books in 39 देशों.
Burned was released on April 27, 2010, and like Tempted, it entered the यूएसए Today बेस्टसेलर list that week at # 1.
Awakened, released in January, 2011, also entered the list at # 1.
The series, जिससे is published by st Martin 's Press is planned to शामिल twelve किताबे.
In 2008, plans लिये a film adaptation were भी announced.
The tenth book in the series, Hidden, was released on अक्तूबर 16, 2012.
The second book in the novellas ( which give backgrounds on supporting characters ), Lenobia 's Vow, was released जनवरी 31, 2012.
Book ग्यारह is फिलहाल called नाज़िल, and the Casts have announced that दो अधिक novellas, Neferet’s Curse, नियोजित to be released February 19, 2013, और a prequel novel about Kalona, are to be released to coincide साथ the eleventh and बारहवीं किताबे.
in Greek mythology, the trojan War was waged विरूद्ध the city of Troy by the Achaeans ( यूनानियों ) बाद Paris of ट्रॉय took Helen from her husband Menelaus किंग of Sparta.
the war is one of the most important कार्यक्रम in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of Greek साहित्य, most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey.
The इलियड relates a part of the last year of the घेरा of Troy ; the Odyssey describes odysseus 's यात्रा home.
Other भाग of the war are contained in a cycle of एपिक poems, which have बच through fragments.
एपीसोड from the युद्ध provided सामग्री लिये यूनानी tragedy and other works of यूनानी literature, and for रोमन poets including Virgil और Ovid.
the war originated इससे a quarrel between the goddesses Athena, hera, and Aphrodite, after Eris, the goddess of strife and discord, gave them a सुनहरी apple, sometimes ज्ञात as the Apple of अनबन, marked `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the goddesses to Paris, who judged कि Aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', चाहिए receive the ठहराना.
In exchange, aphrodite बना Helen, the most beautiful of all महिलाओं और wife of Menelaus, fall in love with Paris, who took her to Troy.
agamemnon, king of Mycenae और the bhai of हेलेन 's husband menelaus, led an expedition of achaean troops to Troy and besieged the city लिये ten सालो क्युकी of Paris ' insult.
After the मौतों of अनेक नायक, including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax, और the Trojans हेक्टर and Paris, the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
the Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except लिये कुछ of the women and children whom they kept or sold as slaves ) and desecrated the मंदिरों, thus earning the gods ' wrath.
Few of the Achaeans returned safely to their homes and many founded colonies in distant shores.
the Romans later traced their origin to Aeneas, one of the Trojans, who was said to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy.
The ancient Greeks thought that the Trojan War was a historical event that था taken place in the 13th or 12th century bc, and believed that Troy थी स्तिथ in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles.
By modern times, both the war and the city were widely believed to be non-historical.
in 1868, however, the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert, who convinced schliemann that ट्रॉय was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to calvert ; this अर्जी is now accepted by most विद्वानों.
Whether there is any historical reality पीछे the Trojan War is an खोलें सवाल.
Many विद्वानों believe that there is a historical core to the tale, though this may simply mean कि the Homeric stories are a fusion of various किस्से of sieges और expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks दौरान the Bronze Age.
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a विशिष्ट historical conflict usually तिथि it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC, often preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes, 1194–1184 bc, which roughly corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy viia.
anarchists have employed निश्चित symbols लिये their cause, including most prominently the circle-A और the black flag, although anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement.
Since the पुनरुद्धार of अराजकतावाद around the start of the 21st-century concurrent with the rise of the anti-globalization movement, anarchist cultural symbols are widely present.
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the skull that transmits the greater palatine artery, vein, and nerve between the pterygopalatine fossa and the मौखिक cavity.
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter और summer from the European Centre for Medium-Range मौसम Forecasts
The जलवायु of Antarctica is the coldest on the whole of धरती.
अंटार्कटिक has the lowest naturally occurring तापमान कभी recorded on the ground on Earth : −89.2 °C ( −128.6 °F ) at Vostok Station.
It is भी extremely dry ( technically a desert ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of precipitation per year.
Even so, on most parts of the continent the हिम rarely melts and is eventually compressed to become the glacial बर्फ कि makes up the बर्फ sheet.
Weather fronts rarely penetrate दूर into the continent.
सबसे of Antarctica has an ice cap climate ( köppen EF ) with very cold, generally extremely dry मौसम throughout the year and no month averaging ऊपर 0 °C ( 32 °F ).
कुछ fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET ) with a short summer averaging above freezing, and much उच्चतर precipitation.
Current head coach माइक Tomlin, दौरान the 2007 season
The पिट्सबर्ग Steelers franchise has had 16 head coaches throughout its history.
Founded as the Pittsburgh pirates in, the name was बदला to the स्टीलर्स prior to the season to celebrate the city 's heritage of producing steel.
Joe Bach परोसा दो separate terms as head coach and Walt Kiesling served तीन पृथक terms.
During the and seasons, due to the amount of players who fought in संसार War II, the Steelers संयुक्त their team with फिलाडेल्फिया and Chicago, क्रमशः.
During ये seasons, स्टीलर्स ' coach Walt Kiesling shared कोचिंग duties with Greasy Neale and Phil Handler, who have नहीं been शामिल within this list.
Struggling for much of the franchise 's जल्दी years, the team 's first ऋतु with more wins than losses थी coached by Jock Sutherland in.
in, under Sutherland, the Steelers played their first playoff game विरूद्ध the Philadelphia Eagles.
Ten of the 16 head कोच खर्च their entire professional कोचिंग careers with the मताधिकार, including John McNally, Walt Kiesling and Chuck noll, who have also महरूम voted into the Pro फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of Fame.
One of only four men to coach the same team for 23 years, Chuck Noll retired in.
Noll is also the तभी coach in National Football लीग history to win four Super Bowls.
Bill Cowher, Noll 's replacement, coached the Steelers to their fifth Super Bowl victory, in 2005.
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super Bowl XLIII, while head coached by Mike Tomlin, the team 's current head coach.
in criminal law, fraud is intentional deception बना for personal gain or to damage another व्यक्तिगत ; the related adjective is fraudulent, and verb is defraud.
Fraud is a crime और a civil law violation, though the specific criminal law परिभाषा varies by legal क्षेत्राधिकार.
Defrauding people or entities of धन or valuables is a common purpose of धोखाधड़ी.
A hoax भी involves deception, but without the intention of gain or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a defense in a civil action for breach of अनुबंध or specific प्रदर्शन of a contract.
धोखाधड़ी is a basis लिये equitable jurisdiction.
Passover, or pesach ( इससे : in Hebrew, Yiddish ), Tiberian :, Modern यहूदी : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah, Pesakh, Yiddish : Peysekh, Paysakh, paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived Jewish festival.
Historically, साथ साथ Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and Sukkot ( `` झोपड़ियों '' ), passover is एक of the three यात्राएं festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of यहूदा made a pilgrimage to the Temple in जेरूसलम.
Samaritans स्टिल make this pilgrimage to Mount Gerizim, but only मेन participate in public इबादत.
passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan और lasts for either seven days ( in Israel ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ).
In Judaism, a दिन commences at संध्या and lasts until the following dusk, thus the पहला day of passover only begins after dusk of the 14th of Nisan and ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of Nisan.
The rituals unique to the passover celebrations commence with the Passover Seder जब the 15th of nisan has begun.
in the Northern गोलार्ध Passover takes place in spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] वसन्त '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is one of the सबसे widely observed Jewish holidays.
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years पहले by God from slavery in ancient Egypt कि थी ruled by the pharaohs, and their जनम as a nation under the नेतृत्व of Moses.
It commemorates the story of the Exodus as described in the Hebrew बाइबल especially in the किताब of Exodus, in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt.
In the कथा of the Exodus, the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in मिश्र by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release उसके Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues थी the death of the Egyptian first-born.
The israelites were instructed to चिह्नित the doorposts of their homes साथ the blood of a slaughtered spring lamb and, upon seeing इस, the स्पिरिट of the रब knew to pass over the first-born in these homes, hence the name of the holiday.
वहीँ is some debate over where the term is actually derived from.
When the Pharaoh freed the Israelites, it is said that वे left in such a hurry that they could नहीं wait लिये bread dough to rise ( leaven ).
In commemoration, for the duration of Passover no leavened bread is eaten, for जिससे reason it is पुकारा `` The Festival of the Unleavened ब्रैड ''.
Thus Matzo ( चपटा unleavened bread ) is eaten during Passover और it is a प्रतीक of the holiday.
हैली 's धूमकेतु or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible इससे धरती every 75–76 सालो.
Halley is the only short-period धूमकेतु कि is clearly visible to the naked नजर इससे धरती, and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter और more spectacular, but होगा appear only once in thousands of years.
हैली 's रिटर्न to the inner Solar System have been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by चाइनीज, Babylonian, and medieval European chroniclers, but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The धूमकेतु 's periodicity was पहला determined in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
दौरान its 1986 apparition, हैली became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the first observational आंकड़ा on the structure of a comet nucleus and the यांत्रिकी of coma और tail formation.
These observations supported a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty स्नोबॉल '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon डाइऑक्साइड and ammonia – and dust.
The missions भी provided आंकड़ा which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is अभी understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is opposition to communism.
व्यवस्थित anti-communism developed in reaction to the rise of communism, especially बाद the 1917 October Revolution in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War.
Most anti-communists अस्वीकृत the concept of historical materialism, which is a central विचार in Marxism.
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief कि capitalism will be followed by socialism and communism, just as सामंतवाद was followed by पूंजीवाद.
Anti-communists question the वैध of the Marxist claim कि the socialist state होगा `` wither दूर '' when it becomes unnecessary in a सच्चा communist समाज.
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the early years of bolshevik नियम, while not as extreme as that during Joseph Stalin 's rule, was still severe by reasonable standards, citing examples ऐसे as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret पुलिस, जिससे eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions, and the brutal crushing of the kronstadt rebellion और Tambov विद्रोह.
कुछ anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as totalitarianism, seeing similarity between the क्रियाएँ of कम्युनिस्ट and fascist governments.
Historian Robert Conquest has argued that Communism was responsible for tens of millions of deaths during the 20th century.
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to शक्ति have tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition.
ये opponents claim कि most Communist countries have shown no signs of advancing from मार्क्स 's socialist stage of economy to an ideal communist stage.
Rather, Communist governments have been accused of creating a new ruling class ( a Nomenklatura ), with powers and privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the upper वर्ग in the non- communist regimes.
Gil बगुला ( 9 April 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican पेशेवर footballer.
He थी the first ब्लैक player to play for Scottish क्लबों Celtic, और was the father of poet and musician Gil scott-heron.
he died in डेट्रॉयट of a heart attack on 27 November 2008.
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( uk ) ( glycine max ) is a species of legume native to East Asia, widely grown लिये its खाद्य bean which has numerous उपयोग.
The plant is classed as an oilseed बल्कि than a pulse by the UN Food and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of प्रोटीन for animal feeds and अनेक prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable oil is another product of प्रसंस्करण the soybean crop.
For example, soybean products such as textured vegetable protein ( TVP ) are ingredients in many meat और दुग्ध analogues.
Soybeans produce significantly more protein प्रति acre than most other उपयोग of जमीन.
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans include soy milk, and इससे the latter tofu and tofu skin.
Fermented foods include सोया sauce, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among अन्य.
the oil is used in many industrial applications.
The main producers of soy are the United States ( 35 % ), Brazil ( 27 % ), Argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) और India ( 4 % ).
the beans contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic एसिड, and isoflavones.
Harrison Ford ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an American फिल्मी actor and producer.
He is famous लिये his performances as Han सोलो in the original Star Wars trilogy and the title अक्षर of the Indiana Jones फिल्मी series.
Ford is also ज्ञात for his roles as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner, John Book in Witness and Jack Ryan in Patriot Games and Clear और Present खतरे.
उसके career has spanned छह decades and includes roles in several Hollywood blockbusters, including Presumed निर्दोष, The Fugitive, Air Force One, and What झूठ Beneath.
at one पाइंट, four of the शीर्ष six box-office hits of all time included one of his भूमिकाएँ.
Five of his films have been inducted into the National Film Registry.
In 1997, Ford was ranked No. 1 in Empire `` The शीर्ष 100 Movie Stars of All Time '' list.
, the United States domestic बक्सा office grosses of घाट 's films total over US $ 3.5 billion, with worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 अरब, making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
Ford is the husband of अभिनेत्री Calista Flockhart.
a ट्यूब of ChapStick
ChapStick is a brand नाम for lip balm manufactured by फाइजर Consumer Healthcare और used in many countries worldwide.
It is intended to सहायता treat and prevent chapped होठ ; hence the नाम.
Many varieties also include सनस्क्रीन in order to prevent sunburn.
Due to its popularity, the पद has become a genericized trademark.
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a lipstick-style tube and लागू in the same manner as lipstick.
However, the term is still a पंजीकृत trademark, with rights exclusively owned by Pfizer.
in स्वीडन and in the संयुक्त किंगडम, the product 's प्रमुख competitor is lypsyl, made by Novartis Consumer Health, जिससे is वितरित in similar packaging to ChapStick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of cloyne ), was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ).
इस theory झुठलाए the existence of material पदार्थ और instead contends कि familiar वस्तुएँ like tables और कुर्सियां are only ideas in the minds of perceivers, और as a result can नहीं मौजूद without being perceived.
Thus, as Berkeley famously put it, लिये physical objects `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ).
Berkeley is also known लिये his critique of abstraction, an important आधार in his argument for immaterialism.
In 1709, Berkeley published उसके पहला major work,, in which he discussed the सीमाएं of human vision and advanced the सिद्धान्त that the proper objects of sight are not material objects, but light and रंग.
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical कार्य A Treatise Concerning the सिद्धान्त of Human Knowledge in 1710 which, after its poor reception, he rewrote in dialogue form and published अंतर्गत the title तीन Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous in 1713.
In इस book, Berkeley 's views यहूद represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover of दिमाग ' ), while Hylas ( Greek : 'मैटr ' ) embodies the आयरिश thinker’s opponents, in particular जॉन locke.
Berkeley argued against Sir Isaac Newton 's doctrine of absolute स्पेस, समय और motion in de Motu ( on गति ), published 1721.
His arguments were a precursor to the views of Mach and आइंस्टीन.
In 1732, he published alciphron, a Christian apologetic against the free-thinkers, and in 1734, he published The Analyst, an empiricist critique of the मूलाधार of infinitesimal calculus, जिससे was influential in the development of गणित.
उसके last major philosophical work, Siris ( 1744 ), begins by advocating the औषधीय use of तारकोल water, and then continues to discuss a wide range of topics including science, philosophy, and theology.
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War ii, because he tackled many of the issues of सर्वोपरि ब्याज to philosophy in the 20th century such as the problems of perception, the difference between primary and secondary qualities, and the importance of भाषा.
चिंगदाओ ( ), historically known as Tsingtao, is a major city in eastern Shandong province, Eastern China, with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ).
Its built up area, made of 6 शहरी districts and 4 county-level cities, is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010.
It borders Yantai to the northeast, weifang to the west and Rizhao to the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
Qīng ( ) in Chinese means `` green '' or `` रसीले '', while dǎo ( ) means `` island ''.
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow Sea, Qingdao is a major seaport, naval आधार, and industrial centre.
it is also the site of the Tsingtao Brewery.
The world 's longest sea bridge, the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge, links the main urban area of चिंगदाओ with Huangdao district, straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas.
Qingdao is named China 's most livable city.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified प्रजाति नामित Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ), or is a group of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated usually MimiN ).
In colloquial speech, apmv is अधिक commonly referred to as just `` mimivirus ''.
Until October 2011, when a larger virus Megavirus chilensis was described, it था the largest capsid व्यास of all known viruses.
Mimivirus has a large and complex genome compared with most other viruses.
Mimivirus, short for `` mimicking microbe '', is so called to reflect its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties.
The Mexican War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed विरोध between the लोगों of Mexico and the Spanish औपनिवेशिक अधिकारियों which started on September 16, 1810.
The movement, which became known as the Mexican War of Independence, थी led by Mexican-born Spaniards, Mestizos and Amerindians who sought स्वतंत्रता from Spain.
It started as an idealistic peasants ' विद्रोह against their colonial मास्टर्स, but ended as an unlikely गठबंधन between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla insurgents.
Crohn 's disease, also known as Crohn सिंड्रोम and क्षेत्रीय enteritis, is a type of inflammatory bowel disease that may affect any part of the जठरांत्र tract from मुँह to गुदा, causing a wide किस्में of symptoms.
It primarily causes abdominal पीड़ा, diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at इसके worst ), vomiting ( can be continuous ), or weight loss, but may also cause जटिलताओं outside the gastrointestinal tract ऐसे as skin rashes, गठिया, inflammation of the eye, tiredness, and lack of विशेषज्ञता.
crohn 's बीमारी is caused by interactions between environmental, immunological and bacterial कारकों in genetically susceptible individuals.
This results in a दीर्घकालिक inflammatory disorder, in which the body 's immune system attacks the जठरांत्र tract possibly directed at microbial antigens.
crohn 's disease रै wrongly महरूम वर्णित as an असंक्राम्य disease in the past ; recent investigators have described it as an immune deficiency state.
There is a genetic association with Crohn 's disease, primarily with variations of the NOD2 gene और इसके protein, जिससे senses bacterial cell दीवारें.
Siblings of affected individuals are at higher risk.
Males and females are equally affected.
Smokers are two times more likely to develop crohn 's disease than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's बीमारी affects between 400,000 और 600,000 people in उत्तर America.
Prevalence estimates for Northern Europe have ranged from 27–48 per 100,000.
crohn 's disease tends to उपस्थित initially in the teens and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, although the disease can occur at any age.
There is no known pharmaceutical or surgical cure for Crohn 's disease.
Treatment options are restricted to controlling symptoms, maintaining remission, and preventing relapse.
The disease थी नामित after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn, who, in 1932, together with two other colleagues at माउंट Sinai हॉस्पिटल in नई यॉर्क, described a series of patients with inflammation of the terminal ileum, the area most commonly affected by the illness.
This is an incomplete list of the tallest buildings and structures by country.
the list directly includes the tallest buildings and structures for each country, and where उचित, it also points to more detailed country-specific lists.
Rough and Ready is a census-designated place in Nevada County, California, United States.
It is located west of Grass Valley, California, approximately 62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento.
The population was 963 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
YouTube is a video-sharing जालस्थल, निर्मित by three former PayPal employees in February 2005, on which users can upload, view and share videos.
the company is आधारित in San ब्रूनो, California, and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to प्रदर्शक a wide किस्में of user-generated वीडियो content, including movie clips, tv clips, and music videos, as खूब as amateur content such as video blogging, short original वीडियो, and शैक्षणिक videos.
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals, although media corporations including CBS, the BBC, Vevo, Hulu, and other organizations offer some of their material via the site, as part of the YouTube partnership कार्यक्रम.
अपंजीकृत users can watch वीडियो, while registered users can upload an unlimited क्रमांक of videos.
Videos considered to contain potentially अप्रिय content are available तभी to registered उपयोक्ता at least 18 years बूढ़ा.
In November 2006, YouTube, LLC थी खरीदा by Google for us $ 1.65 billion, and operates as a subsidiary of Google.
Sister Act is a musical लिखा by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill Steinkellner with additional किताब material by Douglas Carter beane, with गीत by Glenn Slater और music by Alan Menken.
It is आधारित on the hit 1992 film comedy of the same name.
the 2009 वेस्ट End production थी produced by Stage entertainment, Whoopi Goldberg, and Michael Reno for सिस Acts LLC.
Goldberg is also a producer of the 2011 Broadway adaptation.
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of अनुप्रयोग programming interfaces ( APIs ) for हैंडलिंग tasks related to मल्टीमीडिया, विशेषकर game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms.
Originally, the names of these APIs all began with Direct, such as Direct3D, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, DirectPlay, DirectSound, and so forth.
The name DirectX was coined as shorthand term for सब of these APIs ( the X standing in for the particular api names ) and soon became the नाम of the collection.
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming console, the X was used as the basis of the name Xbox to indicate that the console was based on DirectX technology.
the X आरंभिक रै been carried forward in the नामकरण of api designed for the Xbox such as xinput और the Cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ), while the DirectX pattern रै been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite.
direct3d ( the 3D graphics API भीतर DirectX ) is widely used in the विकास of वीडियो खेल for microsoft Windows, Microsoft Xbox, Microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega dreamcast games.
direct3d is भी used by other software applications लिये visualization and graphics tasks such as CAD/CAM अभियान्त्रिकी.
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of डाइरेक्टएक्स, it is common to see the names `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
The डाइरेक्टएक्स software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable binary form, along with accompanying documentation and headers for use in coding.
Originally, the runtimes were only installed by खेल or explicitly by the user.
Windows 95 did नहीं launch with DirectX, but DirectX was included with Windows 95 OEM Service रिलीज 2.
Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0 both shipped with DirectX, as has every version of Windows released since.
The SDK is available as a free download.
While the runtimes हैं proprietary, closed-source तन्त्र, source code is provided लिये most of the SDK नमूने.
Starting with the release of Windows 8 Developer Preview, DirectX sdk रै been एकीकृत into खिड़कियाँ SDK.
direct3d 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11 are only उपलब्धियाँ for खिड़कियाँ Vista and newer because each of these नई versions was built to depend upon the new Windows Display Driver Model that was introduced for Windows Vista.
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a नई video memory manager supporting virtualization of graphics hardware for various applications and services जैसे the डेस्कटॉप Window Manager.
Quetzaltenango, also commonly known by its indigenous name, Xelajú, or more commonly, Xela, is the second largest city of Guatemala.
It is both the capital of Quetzaltenango Department and the municipal सीट of Quetzaltenango municipality.
It has an अनुमानित population of 224,703.
The population is about 61 % indigenous or Amerindian, 34 % Mestizo or ladino और 5 % European.
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an उन्नयन of 2,330 meters ( 7,655 ft ) above sea level at its न्यूनतम भाग.
It may reach above 2,400 meters within the city.
The Municipality of Quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
Municipalities abutting the municipality of Quetzaltenango include : Salcajá, cantel, Almolonga, zunil, El Palmar, concepción Chiquirichapa, San Mateo, la esperanza, Olintepeque, and San Andrés xecul.
सब these municipalities are part of the Department of Quetzaltenango, except San Andrés Xecul which is a part of the विभाग of Totonicapán.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem इससे Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of ये were used as source material for a combined epic in Akkadian.
इस first combined epic, ज्ञात as the `` Old Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th century BC and is titled after its incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have बच.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates इससे the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc and bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of लगभग two तिहाई of this longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
Some of the बेहतरीन copies were discovered in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The स्टोरी centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they journey to the देवदार Mountain to defeat humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later वे kill the Bull of Heaven, which the goddess इश्तार sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these क्रियाएँ, the देवताओं sentence Enkidu to death.
The दूसरी हाफ of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's मौत, and his क्वेस्ट for immortality.
In order to learn the secret of eternal जीवन, Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey.
He learns that `` The life that you are seeking तुम will never ढूँढें.
When the gods created man they allotted to उसे death, but जीवन वे retained in their अपना keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old babylonian संस्करण of the epic, and then attributed to the immortal बाढ़ hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame जिया on after his death, क्युकी of उसके great building projects, and उसके account of what utnapishtim told him happened दौरान the flood.
The स्टोरी has been translated into many अलग languages, and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
There are numerous debates over who निर्मित the first वीडियो game, with the answer depending largely on how video games हैं defined.
The एवोल्यूशन of वीडियो खेल represents a tangled web of several अलग industries, including scientific, computer, arcade, and consumer electronics.
The `` video '' in `` video game `` traditionally refers to a raster प्रदर्शक यंत्र.
With the लोकप्रिय catch phrase उपयोग of the term `` video game '', the term अभी implies सब display types, formats, and platforms.
Historians have also sought to bypass the issue by instead using the अधिक specific `` digital खेल '' descriptive.
इस term leaves out the earlier analog-based computer games.
This is a list of best-selling video game franchises that have sold or shipped at least 5 million copies.
Unless otherwise stated, संख्याएँ indicate विश्वव्यापी units sold, ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the same amount.
The exception are the ones specifying shipments, which have lower precedence than others listing बिक्री.
Franchise sales शामिल expansion packs भी though they हैं not considered पूरा वीडियो games.
For best-selling व्यक्तिगत video खेल, see List of best-selling video games.
The sales आंकड़े given below do not include arcade game sales, which can be found at List of highest-grossing arcade वीडियो games.
– This color indicates a sub-series of a larger video game मताधिकार.
This does not necessarily apply for series that हैं not video game-based.
Dorothy Ann Willis रिचर्ड्स ( September 1, 1933 – September 13, 2006 ) was an अमरीकी politician and the 45th Governor of टेक्सास.
She first came to नेशनल attention as the state कोषाध्यक्ष of Texas, when she वितरित the keynote address at the 1988 Democratic नेशनल Convention.
Richards served as the 45th Governor of Texas from 1991 to 1995 and was defeated for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush.
ऐन रिचर्ड्स थी the second मादा governor of Texas.
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a security feature included in modern ऑपरेटिंग systems.
It is known to be उपलब्धियाँ in Linux, Mac os X, iOS, Microsoft खिड़कियाँ and एंड्रॉइड operating systems and is intended to prevent an अनुप्रयोग or service from निष्पादित code from a non-executable memory region.
This helps prevent certain exploits that स्टोर code via a buffer अतिप्रवाह, for example.
DEP रनों in दो modes : hardware-enforced dep for CPUs that can mark memory पृष्ठों as nonexecutable, और software-enforced DEP with limited सुरक्षा for cpu that do not have hardware support.
Software-enforced DEP करता not protect against execution of code in data pages, but instead counters seh overwrite, another प्रकार of attack.
DEP थी introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ), on Windows in 2004 with Windows xp Service Pack 2, while ठहराना introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006.
उदाहरण illustration of two common futanari variants
, is the Japanese शब्द for hermaphroditism, which is भी प्रयुक्त in a broader sense for androgyny.
Beyond Japan the term is प्रयुक्त to describe a commonly pornographic genre of computer games, comics और एनिमेशन, which शामिल characters that show both primary sexual विशेषताएँ.
But in आज 's language it refers almost exclusively for वर्ण who have an overall feminine appearance.
In that case the term is भी often abbreviated as futa ( s ), which is occasionally also used as term लिये the works itself.
Early CAPTCHAs such as these, generated by the EZ-Gimpy program, were प्रयुक्त on Yahoo !
a modern CAPTCHA, rather than attempting to बनाएँ a distorted background and high levels of warping on the text, might फ़ोकस on बनाना segmentation मुश्किल by adding an angled line.
Another way to make segmentation difficult is to crowd symbols together, as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format.
Some CAPTCHAs try to utilize the क्षमता of people to see three-dimensional objects.
On this image, प्रतीकों are drawn with lines of different मोटाई to make an effect of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test used in computing as an attempt to ensure that the response is generated by a human being.
The process प्रायः involves a computer asking a user to complete a simple test which the computer is able to grade.
These tests are designed to be easy for a कंप्यूटर to generate but difficult for a computer to solve, but again easy for a इंसान.
If a correct solution is received, it can be presumed to have been डाला by a human.
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the user to type letters and/or digits from a distorted image that appears on the screen.
Such परीक्षण are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites, चूंकि a normal human can easily पढ़ा a CAPTCHA, while the bot can not process the image letters और इसलिए, can not जवाब properly, or at all.
Although most captchas are letter pictures randomly generated, अनेक of उन्हें have become difficult even लिये a human to read, so picture CAPTCHAs यहूद निर्मित in which a human is shown a simple test to show a picture of a certain animal ( given few animal pictures ), which is simple for a इंसान being to प्रक्रम, and इसलिए आसान to pick, जबकि a bot can not process and solve the question क्युकी although it can analyze the चित्र, it can not easily guess the animal.
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by Luis von Ahn, Manuel Blum, Nicholas J. Hopper, and John langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ).
it is an acronym based on the word `` capture '' और standing for `` completely Automated पब्लिक Turing test to tell कंप्यूटर and इंसानो अलावा ''.
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the term on 15 October 2004, but the trademark अनुप्रयोग was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
a CAPTCHA is sometimes वर्णित as a reverse Turing test, because it is administered by a machine and targeted at a human, in contrast to the standard turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
jacques-yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as Jacques cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer, एक्सप्लोरर, conservationist, filmmaker, innovator, scientist, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र, author और researcher जो पढ़ाई the समुद्र and सब फ़ॉर्म of life in water.
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung, pioneered marine conservation and was a सदस्य of the Académie française.
KFC ( केंटकी fried Chicken ) is a fast food restaurant chain headquartered in louisville, Kentucky, United States, which specializes in fried chicken.
An `` अमरीकी प्रतीक '', it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as measured by sales ) बाद McDonald 's, with over 18,000 आउटलेट in 120 countries और territories.
The कम्पनी is a subsidiary of Yum !
ब्रांड्स, a restaurant कम्पनी which भी owns Pizza Hut and Taco Bell.
KFC was founded by harland सैंडर्स, who began selling fried मुर्गा इससे his roadside restaurant in कोर्बिन, Kentucky during the ग्रेट Depression.
Sanders थी एक of the first people to देखिए the संभावित of the रेस्तरां फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग अवधारणा, with the first `` Kentucky Fried मुर्गा '' franchise खोलने in Utah in 1952.
The मताधिकार popularized chicken in the तेज़ खाना industry, thereby diversifying the market and challenging the दबदबा of the hamburger.
Marketing himself as `` Colonel Sanders '', he became a legendary figure of American cultural history, and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding.
The company 's rapid expansion saw it grow too large for Sanders to manage, and in 1964 he sold the कम्पनी to a group of investors led by John Y. Brown, Jr. and Jack Massey.
KFC was one of the first fast food chains to expand internationally, opening outlets in England, Mexico और Puerto रीको by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, केएफसी experienced mixed fortunes domestically, as it went through a series of corporate owners who had little or no अनुभव in the restaurant कारोबार.
In the early 1970s, KFC was sold to the spirits firm Heublein, who were लिया over by the R.J. Reynolds food and tobacco conglomerate, जो sold the chain to PepsiCo.
the कड़ी continued to expand overseas however, and in 1987 केएफसी became the first पश्चिमी restaurant chain to open in China.
The chain रै since expanded rapidly in China, and the country is अभी the company 's most profitable market.
पेप्सिको spun बंद its restaurants division as tricon वैश्विक Restaurants, जिससे बाद बदला its name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स.
केएफसी primarily sells fried chicken pieces and variations such as chicken सैंडविच और wraps, salads और side dishes ऐसे as French फ्राइज़ and coleslaw, desserts और soft drinks, प्रायः supplied by PepsiCo.
Its most famous product is दबाव fried मुर्गा pieces, seasoned with Sanders ' `` असली Recipe '' of 11 herbs and spices.
the exact nature of these ingredients is unknown, and represents a notable व्यापार रहस्य.
Larger portions of fried chicken are served in a distinctive cardboard `` bucket '', which has become a signature of the chain चूंकि होने introduced by franchisee Pete Harman.
KFC is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin ' good '', which has since been replaced by `` Nobody does chicken जैसे KFC '' and `` So शुभ ''.
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 species of animals found exclusively in aquatic and mostly समुद्री environments.
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes, specialized cells कि they use मुख्यतः for capturing prey.
Their लाशें consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like substance, sandwiched between two layers of epithelium that are mostly one cell thick.
They have दो मौलिक body forms : swimming medusae and sessile polyps, both of which are radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
Both forms have a single orifice और body गुहा that are used लिये digestion और श्वसन.
Many cnidarian species उपज colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
cnidarians ' क्रियाएँ are समन्वित by a decentralized nerve net and simple receptors.
Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, और कुछ have simple eyes.
नहीं सब cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae, but some omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
Cnidarians were लिये a long time grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into four प्रमुख groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( समुद्र anemones, corals, sea पेन ) ; swimming scyphozoa ( जेलीफ़िश ) ; cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; और Hydrozoa, a diverse group that includes all the freshwater cnidarians as well as many marine forms, and has both स्थानबद्ध सदस्यों such as Hydra और colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War.
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right rather than a sub-group of Scyphozoa, and there is बहस about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( अधिक complex animals ).
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in आकार इससे plankton to animals several times larger than themselves, लकिन many obtain much of their nutrition from endosymbiotic algae, and a few are parasites.
Many are preyed upon by अन्य animals including starfish, sea slugs, fish and turtles.
Coral reefs, whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae, support some of the world 's most productive ecosystems, and protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
While corals हैं almost entirely प्रतिबंधित to warm, shallow समुद्री waters, other cnidarians सजीव in the depths, in polar समंदर and in freshwater.
चट्टान cnidarians have been found in rocks formed about, और other fossils show that corals may have been present shortly before and diversified a few million years बाद.
Fossils of cnidarians that do not निर्माण mineralized structures are very rare.
Scientists currently सोचो that cnidarians, ctenophores and bilaterians are more closely related to calcareous sponges than these are to अन्य sponges, and that anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians, और the most closely related to bilaterians.
हाल analyses have concluded that cnidarians, हालांकि considered more `` आदिम '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of genes.
the Aztec पिरामिड at St. Cecilia acatitlan, Mexico State.
Aztec jade mask depicting the god Xipe Totec.
Large सिरेमिक statue of an Aztec Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-hispanic Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec लोगों यहूद certain ethnic groups of central Mexico, particularly those groups who spoke the Nahuatl language and who dominated large parts of मेसोअमेरिका from the 14th to 16th centuries.
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) और aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people from Aztlan ``, a पौराणिक place for the Nahuatl-speaking culture of the time, and बाद adopted as the word to define the Mexica लोगों.
Often the पद `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan ( now the स्थान of Mexico नगर ), situated on an island in Lake Texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica.
Sometimes the term भी शामिल the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's two principal allied city-states, the acolhuas of Texcoco and the Tepanecs of Tlacopan, जो together with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often ज्ञात as `` the Aztec Empire ''.
In other contexts, Aztec may refer to all the various city राज्य and their peoples, who shared विशाल parts of उनके ethnic इतिहास and cultural traits with the Mexica, Acolhua and Tepanecs, और who प्रायः also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca.
In this meaning it is संभावित to talk about an एज़टेक सभ्यता सहित all the particular cultural patterns आम for most of the peoples inhabiting सेंट्रल Mexico in the late postclassic period.
From the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization : here the capital of the Aztec ट्रिपल Alliance, the नगर of Tenochtitlan, थी built upon उठाया islets in Lake Texcoco.
The Triple Alliance formed a tributary साम्राज्य expanding its राजनैतिक hegemony far beyond the Valley of मैक्सिको, conquering अन्य city states throughout Mesoamerica.
At इसके pinnacle, Aztec culture था rich and complex पौराणिक और religious परंपराओं, as well as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, along with a large number of Nahuatl speaking indigenous allies, conquered Tenochtitlan and defeated the एज़टेक Triple Alliance अंतर्गत the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani moctezuma ii.
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico City on the site of the ruined Aztec capital, from where they proceeded with the प्रक्रम of colonizing सेंट्रल America.
एज़टेक culture and history is primarily known through पुरातत्व evidence मिला in excavations such as कि of the renowned templo Mayor in मैक्सिको City ; from स्वदेशी छाल paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such as hernán Cortés and बर्नल Díaz del Castillo ; and especially इससे 16th and 17th century descriptions of Aztec culture and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl भाषा, such as the famous florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous एज़टेक informants.
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3, 1967 ) is an American journalist, author, and television personality.
He is the primary anchor of the CNN news show Anderson कूपर 360°.
The program is normally broadcast live इससे a नई York City studio ; however, Cooper प्रायः broadcasts सजीव on location for breaking news कहानियां.
As of September 2011, he also serves as host of उसके own eponymous syndicated दिन talk show, Anderson Live, which will be cancelled at the end of the second season.
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped वक्र ) where प्रत्येक band has a width of 1 standard विचलन – See भी : 68-95-99.7 rule
संचयी probability of a normal distribution with expected value 0 and standard deviation 1.
In statistics and संभाव्यता सिद्धान्त, मानक deviation ( represented by the प्रतीक sigma, σ ) shows how much variation or dispersion exists इससे the औसत ( mean ), or expected value.
A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be very बंद to the औसत ; ऊँची standard deviation indicates that the आंकड़ा points are spread out over a विशाल range of values.
The standard deviation of a यादृच्छिक variable, सांख्यिकीय population, data नियत, or probability distribution is the square root of इसके variance.
It is algebraically simpler though practically less robust than the average absolute deviation.
A useful property of standard deviation is that, नापसंद variance, it is expressed in the same units as the data.
Note, however, that for measurements with percentage as unit, the standard विचलन will have प्रतिशत अंक as unit.
In addition to expressing the variability of a population, standard deviation is commonly used to measure confidence in सांख्यिकीय conclusions.
For example, the margin of error in polling data is determined by calculating the अपेक्षित standard deviation in the results if the same poll यहूद to be conducted multiple times.
The reported हाशिया of error is typically about twice the standard deviation ­– the radius of a 95 percent confidence interval.
In science, researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data, and only effects that fall far बाहर the दायरा of standard deviation are माना statistically significant – normal random गलती or variation in the measurements is in इस way distinguished from causal variation.
Standard deviation is also महत्वपूर्ण in finance, where the standard deviation on the rate of return on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment.
When only a sample of data from a population is available, the standard deviation of the population can be अनुमानित by a modified quantity called the `` sample मानक विचलन ''.
When the नमूना is the entire population, its unmodified standard deviation is पुकारा the `` population मानक deviation ''.
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a root vegetable, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown और economically important root crops in the Andean region of South America, दूसरी only to the potato.
It is known there with the common नाम of papa lisa, but also by the regional names melloco ( Ecuador ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( कोलंबिया ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among others.
The पत्ता and the tuber are edible, similar to spinach and the potato, क्रमशः.
They are known to contain high स्तर of protein, calcium, and carotene.
Papalisa were used by the incas prior to arrival of europeans in South अमेरिका.
Ulluco tubers are marketed as `` Earth रत्नों '' in New Zealand, by Halfords Exotic Produce.
Ulluco tubers in New Zealand
an April 24, 1851 poster warning the `` colored लोगों of Boston '' about पुलिसकर्मियों एक्टिंग as slave catchers.
The Fugitive स्लेव विधि or भगोड़े Slave Act was passed by the United States Congress on September 18, 1850, as part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers.
इस थी एक of the most controversial acts of the 1850 compromise और heightened Northern fears of a `` slave power conspiracy ''.
it declared कि सब runaway स्लेव were, upon capture, to be returned to their masters.
Abolitionists nicknamed it the `` bloodhound विधि '' for the dogs that were used to track down runaway slaves.
फ़्रैंक Joseph Pallone, Jr. ( born October 30, 1951 ) is the u.S. Representative for, serving since 1993.
He is a member of the लोकतांत्रिक Party.
He previously represented the 3rd district from 1988 to 1993.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a इन्जील duo from New ऑरलियन्स, louisiana in the United राज्य.
The group was marketed as a gospel alternative to R & b लड़की groups such as नियति 's Child and TLC.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 has sold over 2.5 million albums.
in 1998, the group released उनके पहला album entitled Trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे debut at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts.
The album प्रदर्शित the songs `` God 's Grace '' and the कवर song `` Oh !
Mary do n't तुम Weep ''.
The album later became certified gold.
In 1999, Terri भूरा left the group और was बाद replaced by singer एड्रियन एंडरसन.
दौरान that साल, the group recorded और released उनके second album, Spiritual Love.
the एल्बम became the group 's second # 1 album on the Top Gospel charts.
The album contained the singles `` Put Your Hands '' and `` My देह ''.
In 2002, the समूह released their third album The Kiss which debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts.
in 2007, the group left GospoCentric रिकॉर्ड and हस्ताक्षरित a record deal with Spirit Rising म्यूज़िक.
In late 2007, Trin-i-tee 5:7 released उनके fifth एल्बम T57, which featured the top टेन gospel single `` Listen ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the Top Gospel Albums, # 5 on the Top Christian चार्ट, और # 12 on the Top r & B charts.
the United राज्य federal earned income tax credit or earned income credit ( EITC or EIC ) is a refundable tax credit for low- and medium-income individuals and couples, primarily for those who have qualifying children.
When the credit exceeds the amount of कर owed, it results in a tax refund to those who claim the credit.
This credit is provided to offset the burden of social security taxes and भी to promote an incentive to कार्य.
In अनुक्रम for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ), the age, relationship, और shared रेसिडेंसी requirements must be met, as well as some अन्य requirements.
U.S. कर forms 1040EZ, 1040A, or 1040 can be used to claim EIC बगैर qualifying children.
To claim the credit with qualifying children, 1040A or 1040 जरूर be used, as खूब as attaching Schedule eic.
EIC phases in slowly, रै a medium-length plateau, and then phases out more slowly than it phased in.
Since the क्रेडिट phases out at 21 % ( for two children और for तीन or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for एक qualifying child ), it is always preferable to have one more dollar of actual salary or wages ( although technically, since the EIC table चालें by fifty dollar increments, it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ).
लिये कर year 2011, the maximum EIC for a single व्यक्ति or couple filing without qualifying children थी $ 464.
The maximum EIC with one qualifying child was $ 3,094, साथ two children was $ 5,112, and with तीन or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
These amounts are indexed annually for inflation.
The earned income tax credit has been part of political debates in the United States regarding whether उठाने the minimum wage or increasing EIC will बेहतर address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
The following is a सूची of halftime shows held at the नेशनल Football League 's championship game, the Super कटोरी.
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition, the सुपर Bowl halftime show represents a fundamental link to पॉप संस्कृति, which helps broaden the television audience and nationwide interest.
In most सालो since the mid-1980s, the halftime show of the Super Bowl रै featured popular रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों and other well-known celebrities.
It has measurably increased टेलीविज़न viewers during and after the halftime show.
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched events in American टेलीविज़न annually with over 100 million viewers in the United राज्य alone.
Musical genres over the सालो have represented a broad range of music types, including pop, rock, classic rock, country, hip हॉप, rap, blues, and soul.
In some सालो, short skits or drama scenes are acted out on a stage.
The performance group Up with People has performed at the most सुपर Bowl halftime shows, starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s.
According to Nielsen दरजा, Super Bowl xlvi मध्यांतर show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched मध्यांतर दिखाएँ in history, with 114 लाख दर्शक or about 3 million अधिक than the actual game.
Beyonce 's 2013 halftime show performance थी the दूसरी most viewed show in इतिहास.
it is listed on the Guinness World Records as the largest TV audience लिये a सुपर Bowl half-time performance.
International Men 's Day ( IMD ) is an annual international event मनाये on 19th November.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago, the day और its events ढूँढें support from a variety of individuals and groups in Australia, the Caribbean, North America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO, Director of महिलाओं and Culture of Peace ingeborg Breines said of IMD, `` This is an excellent idea और होता give कुछ gender balance. ''
She added that युनेस्को was looking forward to cooperating with the organizers.
The objectives of celebrating an International मेन 's दिन include focusing on men 's और लड़कों ' health, improving gender relations, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive पुरूष role models.
it is an occasion to highlight discrimination against men and boys and to celebrate उनके achievements and contributions, in particular लिये their contributions to community, family, marriage, and child care.
The broader and ultimate aim of the event is to promote basic humanitarian मान.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries, including Trinidad और Tobago, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, United States, Romania, Singapore, Malta, संयुक्त Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Seychelles, बुरुंडी, Hungary, Ireland, Isle of Man, Ghana, Canada, Denmark, Norway, ऑस्ट्रिया, बोस्निया और हर्ज़ेगोविना, Ukraine, France, Italy, पाकिस्तानी, Cuba, अण्टीगुआ and Barbuda, St. किट्स and Nevis, St. Lucia, Grenada and Cayman Islands, on 19 November, and global support for the जश्न is व्यापक.
Valley Village ParkValley
Village is a district in the San Fernando Valley region of Los Angeles, California.
the median आयु of its population, at 36, is `` old for the नगर of Los Angeles. '' and इसके average household size of two people is low, compared to other parts of the city.
developmental psychology is the scientific study of changes that occur in human beings over the course of उनके life span.
originally concerned with infants and children, the field has विस्तारित to include किशोरावस्था, adult development, aging, और the संपूर्ण life span.
This फ़ील्ड examines change across a broad range of topics including motor skills and other psycho-physiological processes ; cognitive development involving areas ऐसे as problem solving, moral understanding, and conceptual समझना ; language acquisition ; social, personality, and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity गठन.
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to which development occurs through the क्रमिक accumulation of knowledge versus stage-like development, or the extent to which children are born with स्वाभाविक mental structures versus learning through experience.
Many शोधकर्ताओं are interested in the interaction between निजी characteristics, the individual 's behavior, and environmental factors including social context, और their impact on विकास ; others लो a अधिक narrowly-focused approach.
Developmental psychology informs several applied फ़ील्ड, including : educational psychology, child psychopathology, and forensic developmental psychology.
Developmental psychology complements several other basic research fields in psychology including social psychology, cognitive psychology, ecological psychology, and comparative psychology.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional character who first appeared on the 1970s American sitcom All in the Family.
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of Mike Stivic ( played by Rob Reiner ) and ग्लोरिया Stivic ( निभाई by Sally Struthers ), and the पोता of Archie Bunker ( कैरल o'connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ).
The character first appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part episode of सब in the Family which aired in December 1975.
बाद many appearances on सब in the Family until reiner and struthers left the श्रेणी in 1978 ( by that time, Joey had been played most often by alternating twins Jason and Justin Draeger ), the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the परिवार spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) Archie Bunker 's प्लेस in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In this instance, the character was played by चाइल्ड actor Dick billingsley and थी appropriately pre-school आयु.
With ग्लोरिया now separated from Mike, she returned to Archie बंकर 's Place साथ Joey in the February 1982 एपीसोड `` Gloria Comes Home. ''
in this episode, Joey was played by Christopher Johnston.
Joey Stivic was a regular character on the All in the परिवार spin-off series ग्लोरिया in 1982 and 1983.
On इस series, in which the now-divorced ग्लोरिया Bunker character had moved to Upstate New यॉर्क in order to work as an assistant veterinarian, the part of Joey Stivic थी played by ten-year-old actor ईसाई Jacobs.
After Gloria was canceled in 1983, Joey Stivic disappeared from prime time टेलीविज़न for 11 years, जबतक the character made one last appearance on 704 Hauser, a short-lived 1994 series about a black family who था moved into the बूढ़ा बंकर home, years after Bunker had sold it.
In this appearance, the Joey Stivic character थी played by Casey siemaszko, an actor born in 1961 ( 14 years before जॉय Stivic 's fictional birth ).
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic गुड़िया '' ( called `` Archie बंकर 's Grandson '' ) which was billed as the `` पहला anatomically सही male doll. ''
the doll प्रेरित mild controversy at the time, and is a collectors ' item today.
The 2011 Rose कटोरी was the 97th संस्करण of the सालाना bowl game निभाई on January 1, 2011, as भाग of the 2010 कॉलेज football season.
Played in Pasadena, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the TCU Horned Frogs of the पहाड़ West सम्मेलन defeated the Wisconsin Badgers of the बिग Ten Conference by a score of 21 – 19.
The Pasadena टूर्नामेंट of गुलाब संघ was the organizer of the game.
vizio Inc. was the corporate प्रायोजक और the game was officially named `` The Rose Bowl खेल presented by Vizio ''.
This game marked the पहला time a team from a non-Automatic qualifying Conference played in, and won, the Rose कटोरी in इसके 97 years.
the contest was broadcast on केबल टेलीविज़न station ESPN with a radio broadcast on ईएसपीएन Radio and XM Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet.
Coverage began at 1:30 PM ( PST ) with kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST ).
इस marked the first time कि the खेल was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the खेल prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl, which was the first nationally televised college football game.
The Rose Bowl Game, themed Building Dreams, Friendships, & यादें, was a contractual sell-out, with 64,500 टिकटें आबंटित to the participating teams and conferences.
Ticket कीमतें for all seats in the रोज़ Bowl are listed at $ 145.
The बाकी टिकटें went to the Tournament of Roses members, sponsors, City of Pasadena residents, और the general public.
The Rose Bowl स्टेडियम capacity is listed at approximately 91,000.
the घोषणा of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, which घोषित that the thirteen अमरीकी colonies, then at युद्ध with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent राज्य, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a new nation—the United States of America.
John Adams was a नेता in pushing लिये independence, which was unanimously स्वीकृत on July 2.
A कमेटी था already drafted the formal declaration, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas जेफरसन to compose the original draft of the document, which congress would edit to उपज the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national जन्मदिवस, the Independence Day is मनाये on July 4, although Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4, Congress जारी the Declaration of Independence in several फ़ॉर्म.
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and पढ़ा to the public.
the most प्रसिद्ध version of the Declaration, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence, is प्रदर्शित at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on जुलाई 4, the date of its signing was August 2.
The original जुलाई 4 United राज्य Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while all other नक़ल have been derived from this original document.
The sources and interpretation of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration जायज the independence of the संयुक्त States by listing colonial grievances against King George III, and by asserting certain natural and विधिक अधिकारों, including a सही of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence, the text of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution.
Since then, it has आइये to be considered a major statement on human rights, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all मेन are निर्मित equal, कि they are endowed by their Creator साथ certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of सुख.
This has been पुकारा `` एक of the best-known वाक्य in the English भाषा '', containing `` the सबसे potent and consequential words in American history. ''
The ड्योढ़ी आए to represent a moral standard to which the संयुक्त States should नीयत.
This view थी notably promoted by अब्राहम Lincoln, जो considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy, and argued that the घोषणा is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of अधिकारहीन people throughout the world.
Chitty Chitty बंग Bang is a 1968 British musical film loosely आधारित on Ian फ्लेमिंग 's novel.
The film 's script is by roald dahl और केन ह्यूजेस and its songs by the Sherman Brothers.
It stars Dick Van Dyke as caractacus Potts and Sally Ann howes as Truly scrumptious.
The film was निर्देशित by Ken Hughes and उत्पादित by Albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films, also based on Fleming 's novels ).
John Stears पर्यवेक्षित the special effects.
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the म्यूज़िक, while the musical numbers यहूद staged by Marc breaux and Dee Dee Wood.
A region is arid when it is characterized by a severe lack of उपलब्धियाँ water, to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life.
Environments subject to arid climates tend to कमी vegetation and are called xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these places include most of Africa and parts of South अमेरिका and Central अमेरिका.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological चिह्न, which is associated साथ the constellation Cancer.
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac, between 90 and 125.25 degree of celestial longitude, which the सूर्य transits this area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is currently from July 21 to August 9.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated लाज़िम Vice-President Richard Nixon, while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy, सीनेटर इससे Massachusetts.
the incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, थी not eligible for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment.
कैनेडी थी elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving उसे a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first चुनाव in which all fifty of the current संयुक्त राज्य participated.
A क्रमांक of factors explain why the election थी so close.
Kennedy gained since there थी an economic मंदी जिससे hurt the incumbent Republican, और he had the लाभ of 17 लाख more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes कि Kennedy gained among catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants.
कैनेडी 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
in the end, निक्सन 's emphasis on his experience carried little वज़न, and he wasted energy by campaigning in सब 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
कैनेडी used his large, well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination, सुरक्षित endorsements, and, with the सहायता of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the दक्षिण and used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting u.s. Senators ( Kennedy और जॉनसन ) were elected as अध्यक्ष and vice-president, a phenomenon that has महरूम दोहराया once, by बराक Obama और जो Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
शेरवुड is a city in Washington County, Oregon, संयुक्त States.
Located in the southeast corner of the county, it is a residential community in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland.
The population थी 11,791 at the 2000 census.
According to the 2010 census, the population was 18,205 residents.
Indirectly named for the शेरवुड वन in इंग्लैण्ड, it थी first incorporated in 1893 as a town.
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. कॉंग्रेस that was signed into law by President George W. Bush on October 26, 2001.
The शीर्षक of the अधिनियम is a टेन letter acronym ( यूएसए PATRIOT ) that stands for uniting ( और ) Strengthening America ( by ) Providing उचित Tools Required ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001.
the act, as a response to the terrorist attacks of सितंबर 11th, significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' महफ़िल of प्रज्ञा within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial ट्रांजेक्शन, particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration अधिकारियों in detaining और deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related अधिनियमों.
The अधिनियम भी विस्तारित the definition of terrorism to include domestic आतंक, thus enlarging the number of activities to which the यूएसए PATRIOT act’s expanded law enforcement powers can be applied.
On May 26, 2011, अध्यक्ष Barack Obama used an Autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets एक्सटेंशन अधिनियम of 2011, a four-year extension of तीन key provisions in the USA PATRIOT Act while he was in France : roving wiretaps, searches of business रिकॉर्ड ( the `` library records provision `` ), and conducting निगरानी of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities नहीं linked to आतंकवादी groups.
Republican leaders questioned if the use of the Autopen met the constitutional requirements for signing a bill into law.
A house in महारानी Anne स्टाइल at 223 Avenue a.
snohomish is a city in Snohomish County, Washington, संयुक्त States.
The population थी 9,098 at the 2010 census.
The mayor of Snohomish is karen Guzak, और the नगर Manager is Larry bauman.
snohomish prides itself for इसके historical downtown, and was once known for its many antique दुकानें जब it was ज्ञात as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest. ''
the historic business और आवासीय center of the town constitutes the Snohomish Historic ज़िला, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
Many houses bear plaques with the year the house थी built and the name of the family or व्यक्तिगत who originally occupied it.
Once every year, the city gives tours of the historic houses ; एक of them, the blackman हाउस, is a year-round museum.
A general aviation airfield, Harvey Airfield, is less than one mile दक्षिणपश्चिम of Downtown Snohomish.
Dave matthews Band ( dmb ) is an अमरीकी rock band that was formed in charlottesville, Virginia, United States, in 1991.
the founding members were singer-songwriter और guitarist Dave Matthews, bassist Stefan Lessard, drummer /backing vocalist Carter Beauford और saxophonist LeRoi मूर.
Boyd Tinsley was added to the band as a violinist soon बाद the band थी formed.
Moore died suddenly in अगस्त 2008 due to जटिलताओं from injuries sustained in an ATV accident.
ग्रैमी Award -winner जेफ़ Coffin of Béla fleck and the Flecktones has since filled Moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist.
rashawn रॉस and Tim Reynolds have also become full-time touring members of the band.
The band 's 2009 album बिग Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since मूर 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, कमाई the band their पांचवां consecutive number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so.
Their most recent album, Away from the World, थी released in 2012, and also debuted at number one on the Billboard chart.
As of 2010, the Dave Matthews Band has sold over 30 million records worldwide.
The band is known for उनके annual summer-long tours of the United States and Europe, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of their songs, accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting दिखाएँ.
This portion of the दौरे रै become a stamp of DMB and has grown with the band since Fenton Williams began working with उन्हें in the early 1990s.
After twenty consecutive years of touring the band announced कि it would take the summer of 2011 off.
Dave Matthews Band has जीती one GRAMMY Award, and was awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award.
According to Julian Bond, `` वे sell out the largest arenas on Earth, लकिन frequently दे their music away. ''
Transcendental जंगली Oats : A Chapter from an Unwritten Romance is a prose satire written by Louisa may Alcott, about her परिवार 's involvement साथ the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the जल्दी 1840s.
The work was पहला published in a New यॉर्क newspaper in 1873, and reprinted in 1874, 1876, और 1915 और after.
In her account, alcott provides the real people involved साथ पतला pseudonymous disguises.
Her father अमोस Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb, '' while his partner and जातियाँ co-founder Charles लेन is `` Timon Lion ; '' Abigail May Alcott, louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife, is `` Sister Hope. ''
Alcott depicts her father as वर्चस्व by his अधिक forceful partner, and दोनो मेन as feckless and अव्यवहारिक dreamers.
The men of the community spend their time in pointless debates जबकि Sister Hope works from dawn to dusk to maintain their existence.
A crisis arises at harvest time, when the grain crop is threatened by an approaching तूफ़ान.
In alcott 's words, `` परिचय the समय the अनाज was ready to house, some call of the Oversoul wafted all the men दूर. ''
Sister Hope organizes the only उपलब्धियाँ सहायता, three little लड़कियों and a boy, और manages to save the crop.
The little community collapses as soon as the weather turns cold, when it becomes clear that उनके provisions are too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon Lion and his son abscond to जुड़ें the Shakers — though Timon is unhappy to learn कि जीवन among उन्हें is `` all work and no play. ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; बाद दिनों of despair he begins to eat again only when he realizes that उसके family needs him.
Sister Hope finds a way for them to subsist and persevere.
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in इस piece is paralleled in उसके novel, published in the same साल as `` Transcendental Wild Oats. ''
`` Transcendental Wild Oats '' रै been reprinted in several modern editions.
माउंट of the पावन Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot पहाड़ in the Sawatch Range, part of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado.
It is located in the Holy Cross wilderness near the ghost town of Holy Cross City and in Eagle County.
It थी named for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face.
Under यूएसडीए Forest Service administration, the mountain was proclaimed `` Holy क्रॉस National स्मारक '' by Herbert हूवर on May 11, 1929.
The monument was transferred to the National Park सेवा in 1933.
In 1950, it was लौटे to the Forest Service and खोया its National Monument status—the number of visitors to the mountain and the nearby `` Pilgrim 's Hut '' था waned, and the expense of full-time staff could not be justified.
This mountain has been the subject of painters, photographers and even a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, ( The Cross of हिम ).
The first सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ photograph थी published in नेशनल भौगोलिक magazine.
Thomas Moran चित्रित the mountain in an आयल पेंटिंग, which अभी is part of the collection of the Museum of the American West, part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles, California.
it is स्टिल much photographed लकिन it is not as खूब known आज as it was in the past.
Nearby features शामिल कटोरी of Tears Lake, directly under the east फेस of the peak, Tuhare Lakes, in a cirque कि lies south of a significant subpeak, and several other lakes.
Notable locations within शामिल the dotsero ज्वालामुखी ( near Interstate 70 ), Vail and Aspen.
US 24 रनों near the peak through Gilman.
Photochrom छपाई of Mount of the पावन Cross c. 1900.
This image is a reversed view of the mountain compared to how it actually appears.
the first recorded ascent of Holy Cross was in 1873, by F. V. Hayden and photographer W. H. Jackson during एक of Hayden 's geographical surveys.
However, the peak may well have महरूम ascended previously by miners or American Indians.
The first winter ascent of the peak थी made in 1943 by Russel Keene and Howard freedman of the 10th Mountain Division, then stationed at Camp hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four different routes, with the easiest and most common route being the North Ridge, which involves of लंबवत gain over and is rated yds क्लास 2 for मॉडरेट scrambling.
The Cross Couloir route forms the vertical portion of the famous cross विशेषता, and provides an advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent.
Mount of the Holy Cross has a history of endangering the जीवनदान of many hikers.
Primarily, the hikers जो require rescue are unfamiliar with the risks of entering wilderness areas and do not लाओ adequate equipment and आपूर्तियाँ to respond to emergency conditions.
हालांकि the summit on माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस is अक्सर पहुँचे on a long दिन hike, unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost due to changing पर्यावरणीय conditions and confusion regarding the surrounding landscape, especially on the descent of North Ridge.
Thorough research and reasonable planning should prevent सबसे tragedies.
Mount of the पावन cross is accessible from Tigiwon Road, south of Minturn, Colorado.
The हाफ Moon Pass Trail is the standard route to the summit of माउंट of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge.
Following the पतन Creek Trail to an ascent of Notch Mountain Trail provides the best view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain लकीरें.
the GSM लोगो is used to identify compatible handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a standard set विकसित by the यूरोपीय Telecommunications Standards Institute ( etsi ) to describe protocols for second generation ( 2G ) डिजिटल सेल्यूलर networks प्रयुक्त by mobile phones.
It became the de facto global standard for मोबाईल communications with over 80 % market share.
The जीएसएम standard was विकसित as a बदलना for first generation ( 1G ) analog cellular networks, and originally described a digital, सर्किट switched network optimized लिये full duplex voice telephony.
This was expanded over time to include data संचार, first by circuit switched transport, then packet data transport via GPRS ( General Packet रेडियो Services ) and EDGE ( Enhanced आंकड़ा दरों for GSM एवोल्यूशन or EGPRS ).
further improvements यहूद made when the 3GPP developed third generation ( 3g ) umts मानकों followed by fourth generation ( 4G ) LTE उन्नत standards.
`` GSM '' is a trademark owned by the जीएसएम Association.
अध्यक्ष Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Lend-Lease विधेयक to give aid to Britain and China ( 1941 )
the Lend Lease act was an act where the United States had समर्थित its allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a program under which the United राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the United Kingdom, the USSR, Republic of China, Free फ़्रांस, and अन्य Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It was signed into law on March 11, 1941, a साल and a half after the outbreak of World War II in Europe in सितंबर 1939.
This was nine months पहले the U.S. डाला the war in December 1941.
Formally titled An Act to Further Promote the Defense of the United States, the Act effectively ended the United राज्य ' pretense of neutrality.
a total of $ 50.1 अरब ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of आपूर्तियाँ were shipped : $ 31.4 अरब to Britain, $ 11.3 अरब to the Soviet Union, $ 3.2 billion to France, $ 1.6 अरब to चीन, and छोटी sums to other Allies.
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised सेवाएं such as किराया on air bases that गई to the U.S., and totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this, $ 6.8 billion आए इससे the British and the Commonwealth.
The terms of the agreement provided that the materiel was to be used until time for their return or destruction.
आपूर्तियाँ बाद the termination तिथि were sold to Britain at a large discount for £1.075 अरब using long-term loans from the United States.
कनाडा संचालित a समान program that sent $ 4.7 billion in आपूर्तियाँ to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union.
The United States किया not charge लिये सहायता supplied अंतर्गत this legislation.
This program was a decisive step away from non-interventionist policy, which had dominated United States foreign relations since the समाप्त of World War I, towards international involvement.
The Jerusalem artichoke ( helianthus tuberosus ), also called sunroot, sunchoke, earth apple or topinambour, is a species of सूरजमुखी native to eastern North America, and found from eastern Canada and Maine west to North Dakota, and south to उत्तरी फ्लोरिडा and Texas.
It is also cultivated widely across the शीतोष्ण zone for its tuber, which is used as a root vegetable.
Castillo San Felipe del morro भी known as Fort San Felipe del morro or morro Castle, is a 16th-century citadel located in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
stonehenge is a प्रागैतिहासिक स्मारक in विल्टशायर, इंग्लैण्ड, परिचय west of Amesbury and उत्तर of Salisbury.
एक of the most famous sites in the world, stonehenge is the remains of a ring of standing stones set within earthworks.
It is in the middle of the सबसे dense complex of Neolithic और Bronze आयु स्मारक in England, including several hundred burial mounds.
Archaeologists believe it was built anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the first stones were raised between 2400 and 2200 BC, whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have महरूम raised at the site as early as 3000 bc.
The surrounding circular earth bank और ditch, which constitute the earliest phase of the स्मारक, have been dated to about 3100 BC.
The site and its परिवेश यहूद added to the युनेस्को 's list of World Heritage Sites in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge.
it is a national legally protected Scheduled Ancient Monument.
Stonehenge is owned by the Crown and managed by English Heritage, while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust.
Archaeological प्रमाण मिला by the Stonehenge Riverside Project in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge could have been a burial ground इससे its earliest beginnings.
The डेटिंग of cremated remains found on the site indicate that deposits contain इंसान bone from as जल्दी as 3000 BC, when the ditch and बैंको were पहला dug.
Such deposits continued at Stonehenge for at तनिक another 500 years.
The site is a place of religious significance and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry.
The NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an annual कॉलेज basketball tournament लिये women.
Held प्रत्येक April, the Women 's Championship was inaugurated in the 1981–82 season.
The NCAA tournament was preceded by the AIAW Women 's Basketball Tournament, which was आयोजित annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball was one of twelve women 's sports added to the NCAA championship कार्यक्रम for the 1981-82 school year, as the NCAA engaged in battle with the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics लिये Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate खेल.
The AIAW continued to conduct its स्थापित championship program in the same twelve ( and अन्य ) खेल ; however, after a year of dual women 's championships, the NCAA prevailed, while the aiaw disbanded.
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the years, especially since 2003, when the final championship game was स्थानांतरित to the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game.
The women 's championship game is अभी the final overall game of the college basketball season.
Before that, the Women 's फाइनल Four was प्रायः played on the Friday before the Men 's Final Four or the hours before the men played on the final Saturday of the tournament.
The final थी usually played the Sunday afternoon following the Men 's Final Four.
The टूर्नामेंट bracket is made up of champions इससे each प्रभाग I conference, जिससे प्राप्त automatic बोलियों.
The remaining slots are at-large bids, साथ teams chosen by an ncaa selection कमेटी.
The selection process and टूर्नामेंट seedings are based on several factors, including team rankings, win-loss records and Ratings Percentage Index ( rpi ) आंकड़ा.
नापसंद the men 's tournament, वहीँ are तभी 32 at-large bids ( as of the next tournament in 2014 ), and no play-in game.
The महिलाओं 's tournament, like the men 's, is staged in a सिंगल elimination format, and is भाग of the मीडिया and public frenzy known colloquially as March Madness or the Big Dance.
सब 63 खेल have महरूम broadcast on टेलीविज़न since 2003 on ईएसपीएन and ESPN2.
Similar to the pre-2011 मेन 's tournament coverage on CBS, local teams हैं shown on each channel when available, साथ `` whip-around '' coverage designed to showcase the most competitive contests in the बाकी of the country.
The Rosetta Stone in the अंग्रेजों Museum
the Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy v.
The decree appears in three scripts : the अपर text is Ancient Egyptian चित्रलिपि, the middle portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient Greek.
Because it presents essentially the same text in all तीन scripts ( with some minor मतभेद between them ), it provided the key to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Originally displayed भीतर a टेम्पल, the stone was probably moved दौरान the early ईसाई or medieval period and eventually used as building सामग्री in the construction of Fort Julien near the कस्बा of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the nile Delta.
It was rediscovered वहीँ in 1799 by a सिपाही, Pierre-François bouchard, of the French expedition to Egypt.
As the पहला Ancient Egyptian bilingual text बरामद in modern टाइम्स, the Rosetta Stone aroused widespread public ब्याज with its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language.
Lithographic नक़ल और plaster casts began circulating among European museums और विद्वानों.
meanwhile, British troops पराजित the French in Egypt in 1801, and the असली stone came into British possession under the Capitulation of Alexandria.
Transported to London, it has been on public display at the British Museum since 1802.
It is the most-visited object in the British Museum.
कभी चूंकि its rediscovery, the stone has been the focus of राष्ट्रवादी rivalries, including इसके transfer from French to British possession during the Napoleonic Wars, a long-running dispute over the relative value of Young 's and Champollion 's contributions to the decipherment, and since 2003, मांगे लिये the स्टोन 's return to Egypt.
Study of the डिक्री was already under way as the first full translation of the यूनानी टेक्स्ट appeared in 1803.
It was 20 years, however, before the transliteration of the Egyptian स्क्रिप्ट was announced by jean-françois Champollion in पेरिस in 1822 ; it took longer still पहले scholars were समर्थ to read Ancient मिश्र inscriptions and साहित्य confidently.
Major advances in the डिकोडिंग यहूद : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the same text ( 1799 ) ; that the demotic text used phonetic characters to वर्तनी foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic टेक्स्ट did so as खूब, and had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas Young, 1814 ) ; और that, in addition to being used for foreign names, phonetic वर्ण were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two अन्य fragmentary copies of the same डिक्री were discovered later, and several similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions हैं now known, including two थोड़ा पहले Ptolemaic डिक्री ( the डिक्री of Canopus in 238 BC, और the मेम्फिस decree of Ptolemy IV, ca. 218 bc ).
The rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique, but it थी the essential key to modern understanding of Ancient मिश्र literature and civilization.
The term Rosetta Stone is now प्रयुक्त in other contexts as the नाम for the essential clue to a new field of ज्ञान.
ज़हर dart frog ( also dart-poison frog, poison frog or formerly poison arrow frog ) is the आम name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central और South अमेरिका.
These species are diurnal and often have brightly colored लाशें.
Although all wild dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic, levels of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the अगला and from one population to another.
Many species are threatened.
These amphibians are often called `` dart मेंढक '' due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of their to poison the tips of blowdarts.
However, of over 175 species, only four have been documented as being used for this purpose ( curare plants are more commonly used ), all of which आइये from the Phyllobates genus, which is characterized by the relatively विशाल size and high levels of toxicity of its members.
Cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened सिरप usually बना of sweetened caramelised milk.
According to chef Rick Bayless, the name for cajeta came from the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta, which means `` a द्रव thickened to the point at which a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked ''.
Another hypothesis is that it takes its name from the small लकड़ी boxes in which it was traditionally packed.
मैक्सिकन cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato, although it is also produced with the traditional method in several towns of the state of Jalisco, such as Mazamitla, sayula, and Atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is made by simmering बकरी 's milk, or occasionally a sweetened द्रव, stirring frequently, until it becomes very viscous due to evaporation of water, और caramelized.
While बकरी milk is the most usual आधार, other liquids or juices may be प्रयुक्त.
In Celaya, and eventually the rest of मैक्सिको, the confection of half goat 's milk and half cow 's milk became known by the name cajeta, but elsewhere, the मिल्क candy became known as leche quemada, dulce de leche, etc.
It रै cousins in the अनेक Indian milk-based sweets जैसे pera और the milk fudge burfi, and in the opera fudge of the u.S. Cajeta is eaten on इसके own as a मीठी, as a spread or filling for breads और pastries, such as churros, और as a टॉपिंग लिये ice मलाई.
निश्चित liquors are added to special recipes called cajeta envinada.
In addition, cajeta envinada especial is enriched with raisins, बादाम, pecans or nuts.
Often it is प्रयुक्त as a topping for crêpes, as a मीठी sauce boiled and softened down with milk to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty dessert.
In मैक्सिको many ब्रांड्स मेक cajeta but the सबसे आम brand is coronado.
it is also very common to place cajeta between obleas to make a परंपरागत Mexican dessert.
Prince विलियम, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder son of चार्ल्स, Prince of Wales, and Diana, राजकुमारी of Wales, and third-eldest पोता of Queen एलिज़ाबेथ ii और Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
he is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states ज्ञात as the Commonwealth realms : the संयुक्त Kingdom, Canada, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, New Zealand, Jamaica, बारबाडोस, The Bahamas, Grenada, पापुआ New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, तुवालू, Saint लूसिया, Saint विंसेंट and the Grenadines, Belize, अण्टीगुआ and Barbuda, and Saint किट्स और Nevis.
प्रिंस William was educated at four schools in the संयुक्त Kingdom and obtained a उपाधि from the University of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, बेलीज़, Tanzania, and कीनिया where he has जिया and holidayed several times.
Prince William has भी taken Kiswahili अध्ययन at universities in Kenya and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the ब्लूज़ और Royals रेजीमेंट of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother प्रिंस Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing पायलट training at Royal Air Force कॉलेज Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the royal एयर फ़ोर्स, was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force.
in 2010, he समाप्त his general and special-to-type helicopter training और went on to RAF Valley on No. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend, Catherine मिडलटन, on 29 April 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर Abbey.
घंटों prior to his विवाह, Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge, Earl of Strathearn, and सामन्त carrickfergus.
माली is a multilingual country.
The languages बोला there reflect प्राचीन settlement patterns, migrations, and its long history.
Ethnologue counts 50 languages.
Of these, French is the official भाषा and Bambara is the most widely बोला.
Altogether 13 of the indigenous भाषाएं of Mali have the legal status of national language.
Sign in French, at a monument in Bamako.
{ { Infobox Holiday
Chinese New Year
9 – 12 February ( Vietnam )
Rogers Building, the headquarters of Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified public Canadian communications and media कम्पनी.
it is particularly in the field of wireless संचार, cable television, telephone, and Internet connectivity with significant additional telecommunications and mass मीडिया assets.
The company is headquartered in the Rogers भवन in Toronto, Ontario.
The company claims the heritage of the Rogers Vacuum Tube Company, founded in 1925 by एडवर्ड रोजर्स, which started the CFRB radio स्टेशन in Toronto, which was later acquired by outside interests.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, जब Rogers ' बेटे, Ted Rogers, founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd.
That कम्पनी acquired chfi that year, as well as aldred-rogers Broadcasting, a साझेदारी साथ Joel Aldred which helped launch CFTO in 1961.
Rogers later bought out Aldred और started the वर्तमान cable and बेतार operations, known as Rogers Cablesystems ltd.
The मुख्य competitor to the company is घंटी Canada, which has a similarly extensive portfolio of radio and television मीडिया assets, as well as wireless, television वितरण, and telephone services, particularly in Eastern and Central Canada ; the two companies हैं often देखी as having a duopoly on communications services in उनके regions.
However, the company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless सेवाएं, और primarily indirectly with शॉ Communications for television service.
The company भी competes साथ a number of अन्य media companies in the broadcasting industry.
the Internet is a global system of interconnected कंप्यूटर networks that use the standard Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) to serve अरबों of उपयोक्ता worldwide.
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private, public, academic, business, and government networks, of local to global पैमाना, that are linked by a broad सरणी of electronic, wireless and ऑप्टिकल नेटवर्किंग technologies.
the अंतरजाल carries an extensive range of information resources and services, such as the inter-linked hypertext documents of the World Wide Web ( WWW ) और the infrastructure to support email.
Most traditional communications media including telephone, music, film, and television are being reshaped or redefined by the अंतरजाल, giving जनम to new services such as आवाज़ over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ).
Newspaper, book and other print publishing are adapting to Web site technology, or हैं reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
The अंतरजाल has enabled and accelerated नई forms of human interactions through instant messaging, Internet forums, and social नेटवर्किंग.
Online shopping रै boomed both for major खुदरा outlets and small शिल्पकार और traders.
Business-to-business और financial सेवाएं on the अंतरजाल affect supply chains across संपूर्ण industries.
the origins of the Internet reach back to शोध commissioned by the संयुक्त States government in the 1960s to build robust, fault-tolerant communication via कंप्यूटर networks.
The funding of a नई U.S. backbone by the नेशनल Science Foundation in the 1980s, as well as private funding for other commercial backbones, led to worldwide participation in the development of new networking technologies, और the merger of many networks.
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an international network resulted in its popularization and incorporation into virtually प्रत्येक aspect of modern human जीवन.
, अधिक than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's इंसान population —have used the सेवाएं of the Internet ; approximately 100 times more लोगों than were using it in 1995, जब it was mostly used by tech-savvy middle and upper class people in the United राज्य और several other countries.
The अंतरजाल has no centralized governance in either technological implementation or policies for अभिगम and usage ; each constituent network सेट its own policies.
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name स्पेसेस in the Internet, the Internet Protocol address space and the डोमेन Name System, are directed by a maintainer organization, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names और Numbers ( ICANN ).
The तकनीकी underpinning and standardization of the core प्रोटोकॉल ( ipv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( ietf ), a non-profit organization of loosely affiliated international participants कि anyone may associate with by contributing technical विशेषज्ञता.
the 2006 Winter Olympics, officially known as the XX ओलम्पिक Winter Games, was a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated in Turin, Italy from फ़रवरी 10, 2006, through फ़रवरी 26, 2006.
This marked the second time Italy hosted the Olympic Winter Games, the first being the VII Olympic शीत Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956.
Italy भी hosted the Games of the xvii Olympiad in रोम in 1960.
Turin was selected as the host city for the 2006 games in 1999.
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '', the Italian name of the city ; the नगर is ज्ञात as `` Turin '' in both English and the local traditional language, Piedmontese.
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 यहूद neve ( `` snow '' in Italian ), a female snowball, and gliz, a male ice cube.
The official motto of the xx Olympic शीत Games was `` Passion lives यहाँ ''.
`` Help ! '' is a song by the Beatles that परोसा as the title सोंग for both the 1965 film and its soundtrack album.
it was also released as a single, and was number one लिये three weeks in both the United States और the संयुक्त Kingdom.
`` Help ! '' was written primarily by जॉन Lennon, लकिन credited to Lennon–McCartney.
During an interview साथ प्लेबॉय in 1984, Paul McCartney stated कि the शीर्षक was `` out of छटपटाहट ''.
Poster for the 2005 exhibition
siegfried bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), जो usually gave his name as S. Bing, और थी thus प्रायः referenced erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( सैमुएल Otto Bing, 1850–1905, थी his brother ) was a German art dealer who lived in Paris as an वयस्क, and who helped introduce जापानी art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the विकास of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century.
Comparison of male और मादा life expectancy at birth for countries and territories as defined in the 2011 CIA Factbook, with selected bubbles labelled.
The dotted line corresponds to equal female and male जीवन expectancy.
The apparent 3D आयतन of the bubbles are linearly proportional to उनके population.
इस is a list of देशों by जीवन expectancy at birth.
Kennewick is a नगर in Benton County in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of Washington, near the Hanford nuclear site.
It is the most populous of the three cities collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the others होने Pasco and Richland ).
Kennewick is located along the southwest bank of the Columbia River, opposite Pasco and just दक्षिण of the confluence of the कोलंबिया and Yakima rivers.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 73,917 at the 2010 census.
April 1, 2012 estimates from the Washington State Office of Financial Management put the नगर 's population at 75,160.
The nearest commercial विमानक्षेत्र is the Tri-Cities Airport in Pasco, a regional commercial and निजी विमानक्षेत्र.
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 area in the United States for job growth, जबकि nearby Yakima was named # 1.
The आलेख cites the number of scientists employed by the Pacific Northwest नेशनल Laboratory और area farmland for this outlook.
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and इसके derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and international सामान्यीकृत ratio ( INR ) हैं measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
This test is also called `` ProTime INR '' and `` PT/INR ''.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the माप of warfarin dosage, जिगर damage, और vitamin K status.
PT measures factors I ( फाइब्रिनोजेन ), II ( prothrombin ), v, VII, और X.
It is used in संयोजन with the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) which measures the intrinsic pathway.
`` I 'm in the मनोदशा for प्रेम '' is a popular सोंग.
The music was written by jimmy mchugh, the lyrics by Dorothy Fields.
The song was प्रकाशित in 1935.
It थी introduced by frances Langford in the movie Every Night at आठ released that साल.
The song was प्रदर्शित in the 1936 Our Gang ( Little दुष्टों ) short, The Pinch Singer, सुंग by Carl `` Alfalfa '' Switzer, और in the 1936 film ताड़ Springs.
It is often known to be Switzer 's signature song.
James मूडी 's saxophone सोलो on a 1952 रिकॉर्डिंग of this song inspired the song `` Moody 's मनोदशा for Love ``.
हिप hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love '' on उसके एल्बम A Prince Among Thieves ( 1999 ), with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics.
the song 's title inspired the English title of Wong kar wai 's movie In the Mood for Love.
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human behavior and mental processes, including both their variability and invariance, under diverse cultural conditions.
through expanding research methodologies to recognize cultural variance in behavior, language, and meaning it seeks to extend and develop psychology.
Since psychology as an academic अनुशासन was विकसित largely in उत्तर अमेरिका, some psychologists became concerned that constructs accepted as universal were not as invariant as previously assumed, especially चूंकि many कोशिशें to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success.
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes, such as affect, संज्ञान, conceptions of the self, and issues ऐसे as psychopathology, anxiety, and depression, may lack external validity when `` exported '' to other सांस्कृतिक contexts, cross-cultural psychology re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and अर्जी that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases used impede rather than help the वैज्ञानिक search for universal principles in psychology, cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur, बल्कि than searching लिये universals in the style of भौतिकी or chemistry.
In 1972 the International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology ( IACCP ) थी established.
This branch of psychology रै जारी to विस्तार as there has been an increasing popularity of incorporating culture and diversity into studies.
cross-cultural psychology is differentiated from सांस्कृतिक psychology.
The latter is the branch of मनोविज्ञान कि holds that human behavior is significantly बहकावे by cultural differences, meaning that psychological phenomena can only be compared with each अन्य आरपार cultures to a बहुत limited extent.
In contrast, cross-cultural psychology includes a search for possible universals in behavior और mental processes.
वाल्टर J. Lonner, writing लिये Eye on Psi Chi, has stated that `` cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान can be thought of as a type research methodology, बल्कि than an entirely separate field भीतर psychology ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, from her second studio एल्बम Born This Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by interscope Records on अप्रैल 15, 2011, four days ahead of इसके scheduled release.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a नृत्य and electro house song about a woman in love साथ a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents कि have haunted Gaga in the past, and its core meaning refers to the negative भाग of her life कि she ca n't एस्केप.
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the single was designed by गागा in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing प्रभाव on several धार्मिक समूह, the song was generally well received by critics, who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar ध्वनि to गागा 's पिछला redone-produced tracks, सहित `` Poker Face ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` ख़राब रोमांस '', और `` Alejandro ``.
it contains three पृथक hooks and a house -influenced break down.
Gaga explained that the lines बोला during the breakdown talk about उसके as beyond मोचन, regarding the traditional दृश्य of what a woman should be.
`` यहूदा '' initially had a strong sales opening, लकिन was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's पिछला singles.
The song reached the top टेन of the charts in सबसे major म्यूज़िक markets, और also reached the top of the चार्ट in South Korea.
A music वीडियो for the song थी filmed in April 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman reedus.
It has a biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene.
The video portrays उन्हें as आधुनिक day प्रचारकों going to Jerusalem.
It शामिल the biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus, और ended with गागा as magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before इसके रिलीज, the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the video.
however, critics generally praised the video, नहीं ढूंढना any offensive content.
The video was nominated for two awards at the 2011 MTV वीडियो Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a क्रमांक of television shows, सहित The Graham Norton Show, Saturday Night Live, शुभ Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for video compression, और is currently one of the सबसे commonly used formats for the recording, compression, and distribution of high definition वीडियो.
the final drafting work on the पहला version of the मानक थी completed in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -based codec standard developed by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts समूह ( VCEG ) together with the iso/iec jtc1 Moving चित्र Experts Group ( MPEG ).
The project partnership effort is known as the Joint वीडियो Team ( jvt ).
the itu-t H.264 standard and the ISO/IEC mpeg-4 AVC मानक ( formally, iso/iec 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part 10, Advanced Video Coding ) are jointly maintained so that they have identical technical content.
H.264 is perhaps बेहतरीन known as being one of the codec standards for blu-ray Discs ; all Blu-ray Disc players must be समर्थ to decode h.264.
It is also widely used by streaming internet स्त्रोत, such as वीडियो from vimeo, YouTube, and the iTunes स्टोर, वेब software such as the Adobe Flash Player and Microsoft Silverlight, and also विभिन्न HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( atsc, ISDB-T, dvb-t or dvb-t2 ), केबल ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
non-binding arbitration is a type of arbitration in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the पार्टियों to the विवाद, लकिन this determination is not binding upon them, and no enforceable arbitration award is issued.
The `` award '' is in effect an सलाहकार opinion of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of the parties cases.
Non-binding arbitration is used in connection with कोशिशें to reach a negotiated settlement.
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is, on the surface, समान to that of a mediator in a mediation.
However, the प्रिंसिपल distinction is that whereas a मध्यस्थ will कोशिश to help the parties find a middle मैदान to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the उपनिवेश process और will तभी give a determination of देयता and, if उचित, an indication of the quantum of क्षतिपूर्ति payable.
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration, the पार्टियों remain free to pursue their claims either through the courts, or by रास्ता of a binding arbitration, although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome.
The पुरस्कार and reasoning in a non-binding arbitration is almost invariably inadmissible in any subsequent action in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal.
non-binding मध्यस्थता is utilised mostly in the United राज्य and Canada.
It is largely unknown in Europe, हालांकि in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement to jointly instruct a महारानी 's counsel for an opinion on the merits and likely quantum of a claim, and then to negotiate on the basis of the दृश्य expressed in that राय.
Augustine Volcano is a लावा Dome Complex on अगस्टाइन Island in southwestern Cook Inlet in the kenai Peninsula बरो of southcentral coastal अलास्का, दक्षिणपश्चिम of Anchorage.
The अलास्का Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount अगस्टाइन as Level of Concern Color कोड Green for aviation and the Volcano चेतावनी Level is at Normal.
Augustine Island has a जमीन area of, while West Island, just off अगस्टाइन 's पश्चिमी shores, has.
The island is made up मुख्यतः of past eruption deposits.
Scientists have महरूम able to discern that past dome collapse रै resulted in large avalanches.
A map of Belize.
The country of बेलीज़ has roughly 386 km of coastline, and has many coral reefs, cays, और islands in the caribbean Sea.
Most of these form the Belize Barrier रीफ, the longest in the western गोलार्ध stemming approximately.
The reef and its islands have been a युनेस्को World Heritage Site since 1996.
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to प्रदेश लकिन सब of which are in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of the आइलैंड्स variate in स्पेलिंग between `` cay '' and `` caye '', and also उपयोग the स्पेनी `` cayo ''.
नदी islands have not been listed.
Drive अक्षर Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet लिखने application for the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc आंकड़ा भंडार devices to be used in a manner similar to फ्लॉपी disks.
DLA is a packet writing प्रौद्योगिकी लिये CD and DVD media that uses the UDF file system.
DLA is not compatible with खिड़कियाँ Vista and newer, although a patch exists to fix this issue अंतर्गत Windows विस्टा.
roxio Burn was introduced on April 30, 2009.
As a replacement लिये dla, it remedies compatibility issues Internet Explorer 8.
अल्फा रेक्स Emmanuel humbard ( अगस्त 13, 1919 – September 21, 2007 ) was a well-known American टेलीविज़न evangelist whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown on over 600 stations at the शिखर of its लोकप्रियता.
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller फिल्मी directed by Neil Burger and starring Bradley Cooper, Abbie cornish, and Robert de Niro.
it is आधारित on the 2001 novel The अंधेरा फ़ील्ड by Alan Glynn with the पटकथा by Leslie Dixon.
अलास्का ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent, with the international boundary with Canada to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, साथ Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
अलास्का is the largest state in the संयुक्त States by area, the 4th least populous और the least densely populated of the 50 United States.
लगभग half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live within the anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil, natural gas, and फ़िशिंग उद्योग ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska थी purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 लाख ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at लगभग two cents प्रति acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative परिवर्तन before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the u.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian औपनिवेशिक period, when it was used only for the प्रायद्वीप and is derived इससे the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the समुद्र is directed ''.
It is also ज्ञात as alyeska, the `` ग्रेट land '', an Aleut word derived इससे the same root.
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan विश्वविद्यालयों ( NMMU ) is a South African tertiary education institution with its main administration in the coastal नगर of Port Elizabeth.
A merging of three institutions founded NMMU in January 2005 but इसके इतिहास dates back to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art स्कूल.
The University draws international students from all over the world.
There are over 3000 international students and शामिल विद्यार्थी from the United States, France, चीन, Germany, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and many other countries.
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering पेशेवर and vocational training.
The University has six campuses - five in बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ and one in George.
The प्रमुख campus is the South Campus.
Students at NMMU can study towards diplomas and degrees up to and सहित डॉक्टरेट स्तर qualifications.
a number of courses include workplace experience as part of the curriculum.
covergirl is an अमरीकी कॉस्मेटिक्स ब्रांड founded in Maryland, by the Noxzema Chemical कम्पनी ( later called noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989.
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing `` cover girls '', fashion models who appear on the front cover of women 's magazines, to wear its उत्पाद.
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual customer service by providing a wide variety of cosmetics available at उचित prices.
On the उत्पत्ति of Species, published on 24 नवम्बर 1859, is a work of scientific literature by चार्ल्स Darwin which is माना to be the foundation of evolutionary biology.
Its full title थी On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural चयन, or the संरक्षण of Favoured दौड़ in the Struggle for Life.
For the sixth edition of 1872, the short title थी changed to The Origin of Species.
डार्विन 's book introduced the वैज्ञानिक theory that populations evolve over the course of पीढियां through a प्रक्रम of natural selection.
It presented a body of evidence कि the diversity of life arose by common descent through a branching pattern of एवोल्यूशन.
डार्विन included evidence कि he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s और his subsequent findings from शोध, correspondence, and experimentation.
Various evolutionary विचार had already been proposed to explain new findings in biology.
There was growing support for ऐसे ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public, लकिन during the first half of the 19th century the English वैज्ञानिक establishment was closely tied to the Church of इंग्लैण्ड, जबकि science was part of natural धर्मशास्त्र.
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the beliefs कि species were unchanging parts of a designed पदानुक्रम and that इंसानो were unique, unrelated to अन्य animals.
The political and theological implications यहूद intensely debated, but transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream.
The book was written for non-specialist पाठक and attracted widespread interest upon its publication.
As Darwin थी an eminent वैज्ञानिक, his findings were taken seriously and the evidence he presented generated scientific, philosophical, and religious discussion.
The debate over the book contributed to the campaign by T.H. Huxley and उसके fellow members of the X Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism.
भीतर दो decades there was widespread scientific agreement that evolution, with a branching pattern of common descent, had occurred, but वैज्ञानिकों were slow to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate.
दौरान the `` ग्रहण of Darwinism `` from the 1880s to the 1930s, various other mechanisms of एवोल्यूशन were given more क्रेडिट.
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s, Darwin 's अवधारणा of evolutionary adaptation through प्राकृतिक चयन became सेंट्रल to modern evolutionary सिद्धान्त, now the unifying concept of the life sciences.
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' स्टेंगल ( ; July 30, 1890 – September 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The Old Perfessor '', was an American Major लीग Baseball outfielder and manager.
He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in.
Stengel was born in Kansas City, Missouri, and originally nicknamed `` Dutch '', a common nickname at that time for Americans of जर्मनी ancestry.
After उसके प्रमुख लीग करियर began, he acquired the nickname `` Casey '', which originally came इससे the आद्याक्षर of his hometown ( `` K. C. '' ), जिससे evolved into `` Casey '', influenced by the wide popularity of the poem केसी at the Bat.
In the 1950s, sportswriters dubbed उसे with yet another nickname, `` The Old Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), लिये his sharp wit and his ability to talk at लंबाई on anything baseball -related.
Although उसके baseball career spanned a क्रमांक of teams and cities, he is primarily संबद्ध साथ clubs in New York City.
Between playing and managing, he is the तभी man to have worn four of New York 's प्रमुख लीग क्लब ' uniforms.
He was the first of four men ( through the season ) to manage both the नई यॉर्क Yankees and New York Mets ; Yogi berra, Dallas Green, and Joe टोरेस are the अन्य.
Like Torre, he also managed the Braves and the Dodgers.
He ended उसके baseball करियर as the beloved manager for the then विस्तार New York Mets, जिससे won over the दिल of New York partly due to the unique character of their veteran नेता.
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and gregorian calendars and one of the four months साथ a length of 30 दिनों.
Ovid provides दो etymologies for June 's name in his कविता concerning the months हकदार the Fasti.
The first is that the month is named बाद the Roman देवी Juno, wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek goddess Hera ; the second is that the name comes इससे the Latin word iuniores, अर्थ `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for जिससे the preceding month may may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the जून is the month with the longest daylight hours of the year in the Northern गोलार्ध और the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere.
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal equivalent to December in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere and वाइस versa.
in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध, the beginning of the meteorological summer is 1 June.
In the Southern hemisphere, the शुरूआत of the meteorological winter is 1 June.
At the start of June, the sun rises in the constellation of Taurus ; at the समाप्त of June, the sun rises in the constellation of Gemini.
however, due to the precession of the equinoxes, June begins with the sun in the astrological sign of मिथुन, and ends with the sun in the astrological चिह्न of Cancer.
June is known लिये the large number of विवाह कि occur over the course of the month.
According to one etymology, June is named after Juno ( Hera ).
Juno was the देवी of marriage and a married युगल 's household, so some consider it good लक to be married in this माह.
According to another etymology provided by the Roman कवि Ovid, June is named for the iuniores, latin for `` young people '' ( Fasti VI.88 ) और that the माह of May is named for the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
in Iceland, folklore says that if you bathe नग्न in the morning dew on the morning of June 24, तुम हैं supposed to keep वृद्धावस्था at bay for longer.
A constitution is a set of fundamental principles or स्थापित precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed.
ये rules together make up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is.
When these principles हैं written down into a single दस्तावेज़ or set of legal documents, those documents may be said to embody a written constitution ; if they are written down in a single comprehensive document, it is said to embody a codified constitution.
Constitutions concern different स्तर of organizations, from sovereign states to companies and unincorporated associations.
A treaty जिससे establishes an international organization is भी its संविधान, in that it would define how कि organization is constituted.
Within states, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the principles upon which the राज्य is based, the procedure in which कानून are made and by whom.
Some constitutions, especially codified constitutions, also act as limiters of state power, by establishing lines जिससे a state 's rulers can नहीं cross, such as fundamental rights.
जार्ज Washington at Constitutional Convention of 1787, signing of U.S. Constitution.
The Constitution of India is the longest लिखा constitution of any sovereign देश in the संसार, containing 448 articles, 12 schedules and 100 amendments, साथ 117,369 words in इसके English language version, while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution, at 7 आलेख and 27 amendments.
Ron Diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training session in the स्पेस Environment Simulation Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space Center.
Engineering management is a specialized रूप of management that is concerned with the application of अभियान्त्रिकी principles to business practice.
अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबन्धन is a career that brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of engineering and the organizational, administrative, and planning abilities of प्रबन्धन in order to oversee जटिल enterprises from conception to completion.
उदाहरण areas of अभियान्त्रिकी are product development, manufacturing, construction, design engineering, industrial engineering, technology, production, or any अन्य field that employs personnel who perform an अभियान्त्रिकी function.
Successful engineering managers typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण and experience in business and engineering.
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their technical team, and non-commercial managers tend to lack commercial सूझबूझ to deliver in a मार्केट economy.
Largely, engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by non-entrepreneurial thinking, यूँ require the जरुरी people skills to coach, mentor and motivate technical professionals.
Engineering professionals joining manufacturing कंपनियाँ sometimes become engineering प्रबंधक by डिफॉल्ट after a period of time.
They are जरूरी to learn how to मैनेज once they हैं on the जॉब, though this is usually an ineffective रास्ता to develop managerial abilities.
In an insurance policy, the deductible is the amount of expenses that जरूर be paid आउट of pocket before an insurer will pay any खर्च.
In general usage, the term deductible may be प्रयुक्त to describe एक of several types of clauses ( see below ) कि are used by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments.
deductibles are typically used to deter the large number of trivial claims कि a consumer can be reasonably expected to भालू the cost of.
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant पर्याप्त to incur large costs, the insurance firm expects to अदा आउट slightly छोटी amounts much less frequently, incurring much higher savings.
As a result, insurance premiums are typically cheaper when वे involve higher deductibles.
Deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an insurance policy that dictate how much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder.
वे are normally quoted as a फिक्स्ड मात्रा and is a part of most policies covering नुकसान to the policy holder.
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses that exceed this amount ( subject to the अधिकतम sum claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the policy, the deductible may लागू per covered घटना, or per year.
For policies जहाँ incidences are not easy to delimit ( for example health बीमे ), the deductible is typically applied per year.
Several deductibles can be set by the insurer based on the cause of the claim.
For example, a single housing बीमे policy may contain multiple deductible amounts लिये loss or damage arising from चोरी, fire, natural calamities, evacuation etc.
There are also deductible reimbursement कार्यक्रम that reimburse a deductible in the event of an स्वचालित, home, boat/yacht or health insurance claim.
an invoice or bill is a वाणिज्यिक दस्तावेज़ जारी by a seller to a buyer, indicating the products, quantities, and agreed prices for उत्पाद or सेवाएं the seller has provided the buyer.
An invoice indicates the sale लेनदेन only.
Payment terms हैं independent of the invoice and are negotiated by the buyer और the seller.
Payment terms are usually included on the invoice.
The buyer could have already paid for the products or services listed on the invoice.
खरीदार can also have a maximum number of days in which to pay for these goods and is sometimes offered a छूट if paid before the due date.
In the rental उद्योग, an invoice must शामिल a specific reference to the अवधि of the time being billed, so in addition to quantity, price और छूट the invoicing amount is also based on duration.
Generally each line of a rental invoice will refer to the actual hours, days, weeks, months, etc., होने billed.
From the पाइंट of दृश्य of a seller, an invoice is a sales चालान.
From the पाइंट of दृश्य of a खरीदार, an invoice is a purchase invoice.
The document indicates the buyer and seller, but the term invoice indicates money is owed or owing.
In English, the context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify इसके meaning, ऐसे as `` we sent them an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from them '' ( we owe them money ).
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or right principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
It is wider, shorter, and more vertical in दिशा than the बाएँ.
it is about 2.5 cm long, and enters the right फेफड़ों nearly opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra.
the azygos vein arches over it from behind ; and the right pulmonary धमनी झूठ at first नीचे and तब in front of it.
About 2 cm इससे इसके शुरुआत it देता off a branch to the upper lobe of the right lung.
This is termed the eparterial branch of the bronchus, because it arises above the right pulmonary artery.
The bronchus now passes नीचे the artery, and is known as the hyparterial branch ; it divides into two branches for the middle and lower lobes.
if a foreign body in the airway passes through the श्वासनली, it will most likely enter the सही main bronchus instead of the left, due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the श्वासनली.
Squash is a racquet sport played by two ( singles ) or four players ( doubles ) in a four-walled अदालत with a small, hollow rubber बॉल.
The players must alternate in striking the ball with उनके racquet and hit the ball onto the playable सतहों of the four दीवारें of the court.
The खेल was formerly पुकारा squash racquets, a reference to the `` squashable '' soft ball used in the game ( compared with the fatter ball used in its parent खेल racquets or rackets ).
Squash is पहचाना by the IOC and supporters are lobbying for its incorporation in a future Olympic program.
In 2003, Forbes रेटेड squash as the क्रमांक एक healthiest sport to play.
अवशेष oil is oil found in low concentrations naturally or in बेहाल oil fields.
Often mixed with water, it can not be recovered by conventional techniques.
however, it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced आयल recovery ( co2 EOR ) which involves injecting carbon dioxide into the well reducing viscosity and enhancing flow of the oil.
the technique is नहीं new लकिन रै नहीं महरूम used extensively on residual oil zones, low-grade deposits of petroleum ऐसे as the 38 square miles in the permian Basin of टेक्सास leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr.
The तकनीक is limited by availability of carbon dioxide.
it करता not result in sequestration of the carbon dioxide but the gas is recycled as much as possible.
संयुक्त States reserves of residual oil are estimated to be 100 billion barrels.
कलाकार 's rendering of the fire, by John R. Chapin, originally printed in Harper 's साप्ताहिक ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph गली सेतु.
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration that burned from संडे, अक्तूबर 8, to जल्दी Tuesday, अक्तूबर 10, 1871, हत्या hundreds and destroying about in शिकागो, इलिनोइस.
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century, the rebuilding कि began helped develop Chicago as एक of the सबसे populous and economically important American cities.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) was king of England इससे 21 April 1509 until his death.
He थी lord, और later किंग, of Ireland, as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the किंगडम of France.
हेनरी was the second monarch of the ट्यूडर dynasty, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six marriages, Henry VIII is ज्ञात for his भूमिका in the separation of the Church of England from the रोमन Catholic गिरिजाघर.
Henry 's struggles साथ Rome led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological teachings, even after his excommunication from the Roman कैथोलिक Church.
Henry oversaw the legal union of England और वेल्स with the कानून in वेल्स Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king अलाइड with the पावन Roman Emperor, Maximillian I, और invaded France in 1513 with a large, well-equipped army, लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his भाग, used the अंग्रेज़ी invasion to his own ends, and this prejudiced England 's ability to शिकस्त the फ्रेंच.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession for Henry, जो invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles V, supported Henry only as long as he needed to and इंग्लैण्ड, strained by the enormous लागत of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries माना हेनरी in उसके prime to be an attractive, educated और accomplished king, and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he also engaged himself as an लेखक and composer.
उसके ख्वाहिश to provide England साथ a पुरूष वारिस – which stemmed partly from personal वैनिटी and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor राजवंश and the नाजुक peace कि existed following the युद्धों of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six विवाह और the English Reformation.
Henry became morbidly मोटे और his health suffered, contributing to उसके मौत in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in his later life as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, और असुरक्षित king.
La reina del सूर ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United राज्य television network Telemundo, in conjunction साथ the Antena 3 network and RTI Producciones.
आधारित on a novel of the वही name by Spanish author Arturo Pérez-Reverte, the drama depicts the rise of Teresa Mendoza ( केट del Castillo ), a young woman from Mexico who becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in दक्षिणी Spain.
Patricio Wills, the president of Telemundo टेलीविज़न studios, थी the executive निर्माता.
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for Novela of the Year, पसंदीदा सीसे अभिनेत्री, and Best Bad Luck Video, it won no awards.
साथ a $ 10 लाख budget, La Reina del Sur was the most महंगी telenovela ever उत्पादित by Telemundo.
The program 's premiere on February 28, 2011, was the network 's उच्चतम rated premiere लिये a telenovela to date.
The program frequently dominated its time slot, even over English language programming on other major U.S. networks.
La Reina डेल Sur completed इसके 63 episode run on Telemundo and its 13 एपीसोड run on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The final episode थी the highest rated broadcast in Telemundo 's 19-year history ( 4.2 million दर्शक ), and beat all of the English language U.S. television संजाल to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic.
The program 's कामयाबी spurred Telemundo to launch its first अभियान to gain the series an Emmy Award nomination.
a one-night special featuring several cast members aired on May 31, 2011, और चिह्नित the telemundo debut of noted Latina television personality Cristina saralegui.
la Reina del Sur is broadcast in several other markets, सहित Serbia, Colombia, Chile, Cyprus, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Mexico, Albania, Hungary, Slovenia, क्रोएशिया, Romania, ( among others ).
An example of rack mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and organizations to मेक their website accessible via the संसार चौड़ी वेब.
Web होस्ट are companies that provide स्पेस on a server owned or leased for उपयोग by clients, as well as providing Internet कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a आंकड़ा बीच.
Web hosts can also provide आंकड़ा बीच space और connectivity to the Internet for other servers located in their data center, called colocation, भी known as Housing in Latin अमेरिका or फ़्रांस.
The scope of web hosting services varies greatly.
The most basic is web पेज and small-scale file hosting, where files can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or साथ minimal processing.
Many Internet service प्रदाताओं ( ISPs ) offer this service free to subscribers.
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page hosting from alternative सेवा providers.
Personal web site होस्टिंग is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often रै a उच्चतर expense depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient for personal web pages.
A complex site calls for a अधिक comprehensive package that provides database support और application development platforms ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These सुविधाएं allow customers to write or install स्क्रिप्ट for applications like forums and content management.
Also, सुरक्षित Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce.
the host may also provide an interface or कंट्रोल panel for managing the वेब server and installing scripts, as well as other modules and सेवा applications like e-mail.
कुछ hosts specialize in निश्चित software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), which हैं commonly used by larger companies कि outsource network अवसंरचना.
मैडेन NFL ( known as जॉन Madden Football before 1993 ) is an American football वीडियो game series developed by Electronic Arts Tiburon for ea Sports.
The game series is named after Pro फ़ुटबॉल Hall of Famer John Madden, a well-known former सुपर Bowl –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color कमेंटेटर.
The श्रेणी is the best selling EA Sports series.
The खेल have consistently been a best seller, और रै even spawned TV shows where खिलाड़ी compete.
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and player statistics, और voice commentary कि allows खिलाड़ी to hear the game as if it were a real TV broadcast.
the Madden एनएफएल series has been nicknamed the एनएफएल 's 33rd मताधिकार.
The series was originally conceived by Electronic कला संस्थापक Trip Hawkins, who then approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise.
Due to Madden 's insistence कि the game be as यथार्थवादी as possible, the first version of जॉन मैडेन फ़ुटबॉल was नहीं released until 1988.
The second version of the game was released in 1990, साथ annual संस्करण since then.
The श्रेणी ' name थी changed to Madden NFL in 1993 after EA acquired the rights to use एनएफएल teams and players.
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009, he continues to lend his name and provide expertise for the game.
सिंडी Lee Miller Sheehan ( born July 10, 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist whose son, u.S. Army Specialist केसी Sheehan, थी killed by दुश्मन action during the Iraq War.
She आकर्षित national and international मीडिया attention in August 2005 for उसके extended antiwar protest at a makeshift camp outside President George W. बुश 's Texas ranch —a stand that खींचा both passionate support and angry criticism.
Sheehan ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 2008.
She is a vocal critic of President Barack ओबामा 's foreign policy.
Her memoir, Peace Mom : a Mother 's यात्रा Through Heartache to Activism, was published in 2006.
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the Peace और स्वतंत्रता Party.
Wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born अक्तूबर 17, 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped From हैती 's Presidential Ballot – TIME, Aug 21, 2010.
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was running for अध्यक्ष of हैती, wyclef Jean थी still लिस्टिंग उसके age as only 37 years old.
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate, the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to come साफ and confirm that he थी really 40. '' is a three-time Grammy Award -winning Haitian-American rapper, singer-songwriter, musician, रिकार्ड निर्माता, and politician.
At age nine, Jean moved to the संयुक्त राज्य with his family and has spent much of his जीवन in the country.
He first received fame as a member of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees.
On August 5, 2010, Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 Haitian presidential चुनाव, although the Electoral आयोग subsequently ruled उसे ineligible to स्टैंड as he था not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five सालो.
wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti election सत्ताधारी – बीबीसी News, Aug 22, 2010.
Haiti 's electoral आयोग said that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand as the Haitian constitution requires उम्मीदवार to have lived in the देश for five years prior to an election.
The 40-year-old singer lives in the US.
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief, highly publicized in 2010 throughout Haiti and the United States, were channeled through his charitable organization, Yéle Haiti.
The charity, which performed a variety of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010, effectively closed in 2012.
in law, a set-off is a statutory रक्षा to the whole or to a portion of a अभियोक्ता 's claim.
It had no existence under the English common law, being created by 2 Geo. II c. 22 for the relief of insolvent debtors, although set-off was recognized in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded तभी in आदर of mutual debts of a definite character, and किया not apply to cases in जिससे क्षतिपूर्ति were claimed, nor to equitable claims or demands.
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX. r. 3 ) a defendant in an action may set off or नियत up any सही or claim by way of counterclaim against the दावा of a plaintiff, and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action.
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the अन्यायपूर्ण हालात whereby a person ( `` पार्टी A '' ) जो owed money to another ( `` Party B '' ) could be sent to debtors prison, despite the fact that Party B भी owed money to Party A.
The law thus allows both parties to defer payment जबतक their respective claims have महरूम heard in court.
Upon judgment, दोनो claims are extinguished and replaced by a single जाल sum owing ( e.g. If Party A owes Party B 100 and पार्टी B owes Party A 105, the two रकम are set बंद and replaced साथ a single obligation of 5 from Party b to Party a ).
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so that, where a party defaults, the mutual amounts owing are automatically set बंद and बुझे.
In certain jurisdictions ( including the UK ), set-off takes place automatically upon the insolvency of a company.
This means that, for each party which is दोनो a creditor और debtor of the insolvent company, परस्पर debts are set-off विरूद्ध each other, and then either the दिवालिया 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in दिवालियापन can ask for the संतुलन remaining to be paid, depending on which side owed the most.
इस has महरूम criticized as an undeclared security interest that violates the principle of pari passu.
The alternative, where a creditor has to pay all its debts, लकिन receive only a limited portion of the leftover moneys that other unsecured लेनदारों get, poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
The right to नियत off is particularly important when रिपोर्टिंग a बैंको 's exposures to regulatory अधिकारियों.
The situation जहाँ a bank has to report कि it has lent a large योग to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed, क्युकी there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the घाटा of the bank 's or its depositors ' money ) is thus replaced ( where the bank has taken security over साझा or securities of the borrower ) with an एक्सपोज़र of the धन lent ऋण the मान of the security taken.
Jennifer Joanna एनिस्टन ( born February 11, 1969 ) is an American actress, film director, and producer.
Aniston gained विश्वव्यापी recognition in the 1990s for portraying Rachel ग्रीन on the टेलीविज़न sitcom मित्रों, a role which earned उसके an Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award, and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
Aniston has also enjoyed a कामयाब Hollywood फिल्मी career.
She gained critical acclaim for her performances in the स्वतंत्र films She 's the One ( 1996 ), Office Space ( 1999 ), The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with धन ( 2006 ).
She has had her महानतम commercial successes with the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003 ), The Break-Up ( 2006 ), Marley & Me ( 2008 ), Just Go with It ( 2011 ) और Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ).
Aniston received a star on the Hollywood चलना of Fame on February 22, 2012.
a white Bengal tiger at the Houston Aquarium
( video )
A White बाघ at Tobu Zoo, in Saitama, Japan.
The white tiger is a recessive mutant of the Bengal tiger, which was reported in the wild from time to time in असम, बंगाल, Bihar and especially from the former राज्य of Rewa.
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect, part of the PCI Local बस standard and often shortened to बस PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a कंप्यूटर.
The PCI बस supports the functions found on a processor बस, but in a standardized स्वरूप that is independent of any particular processor.
डिवाइस connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly to the processor bus, and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, called a planar device in the PCI specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles, where it विस्थापित the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus विन्यास.
It has subsequently been adopted for अन्य computer प्रकार.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express, but, सबसे motherboards हैं still made with one or अधिक PCI slots, which are sufficient for अनेक uses.
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board किनारे electrical contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be purchased इससे the PCI Special Interest समूह ( PCI-SIG ).
ठेठ पीसीआई cards used in PCs include : network cards, ध्वनि ताश, modems, extra ports ऐसे as USB or सीरियल, TV ट्यूनर cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and vesa cards, until growing bandwidth आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface लिये video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain उपलब्धियाँ लिये use with old PCs without AGP or PCI एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट.
Many डिवाइस previously provided on PCI विस्तार cards हैं now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions.
Caffeine is a bitter, white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that अधिनियमों as a stimulant ड्रग.
कैफीन is found in varying quantities in the seeds, leaves, और fruit of some plants, where it अधिनियमों as a natural pesticide that paralyzes और मारता निश्चित कीट feeding on the plants, as well as बढ़ाना the बदला memory of pollinators.
It is most commonly consumed by humans in infusions extracted इससे the बीज of the coffee plant and the पत्ते of the tea bush, as well as from विभिन्न foods and drinks containing products निकला इससे the कोला नट.
Other sources शामिल yerba maté, guarana जामुन, guayusa, and the yaupon holly.
In humans, caffeine acts as a central nervous system stimulant, temporarily warding off drowsiness और restoring alertness.
it is the world 's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, लकिन unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world.
Beverages containing कैफीन, ऐसे as coffee, tea, soft drinks, और energy drinks, enjoy great लोकप्रियता.
In उत्तर America, 90 % of adults consume caffeine daily.
भाग of the reason caffeine is classified by the Food and Drug Administration as GRAS ( generally recognized as safe ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically used doses ( कम than 500 milligrams ).
Ordinary consumption can have कम health risks, even जब carried on for सालो – वहीँ may be a modest protective effect विरूद्ध some diseases, including Parkinsons Disease, and certain types of cancer.
Caffeine can have both positive and negative effects on चिंता disorders.
Some people experience sleep disruption if वे consume कैफीन, especially during the संध्या घंटों, but others show little disturbance and the effect of caffeine on sleep is highly variable.
Evidence of a रिस्क to गर्भावस्था is equivocal, but कुछ authorities have concluded that prudent advice is for गर्भवती women to limit consumption to the equivalent of दो cups of कॉफी प्रति day or less.
The अमरीकी Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists ( ACOG ) concluded in 2010 that caffeine consumption is सुरक्षित up to 200 mg per day in pregnant महिलाओं.
Caffeine रै pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people who are not used to it, but नियमित users develop a tolerance to this effect, and अध्ययन have generally failed to support the common ख़्याल that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to निर्जलीकरण.
साथ heavy उपयोग, सहिष्णुता develops rapidly to autonomic effects such as elevated heart rate and muscle twitching, लकिन नहीं to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine.
The degree to जिससे कैफीन can produce clinically significant physical और mental dependence remains a विषय of controversy in the चिकित्सा literature.
A kicktail cruiser
A longboard is a longer variant of a skateboard.
It is commonly used for cruising, downhill racing, slalom racing, sliding, and/or transport.
Sources outside of Wikipedia give differing estimates:
the CIA 's World Factbook gives the संसार population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est. ) and the distribution of religions as Christian 100 % ( of which Roman Catholic 18.85 %, Protestant 8.15 %, Orthodox 4.96 %, Anglican 1.26 % ), Muslim 22.74 %, Hindu 13.8 %, Buddhist 6.77 %, Sikh 0.35 %, यहूदी 0.22 %, Baha'i 0.11 %, अन्य religions 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The Coast सीमाएँ of California span इससे हम्बोल्ट County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया south to सांता Barbara County.
the other three coastal कैलिफ़ोर्निया mountain सीमाएँ हैं the Transverse सीमाएँ, Peninsular Ranges और the Klamath Mountains.
Physiographically, they are a section of the larger Pacific Border province, जिससे in turn are part of the larger प्रशांत पहाड़ System physiographic division.
UNESCO रै included the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere Reserve `` in its Man और the Biosphere Programme of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983.
वाहनों in उपयोग per country from 2001 to 2007.
it shows the significant growth in bric.
World मैप of passenger cars per 1000 people
An automobile, autocar, मोटर car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle प्रयुक्त for transporting passengers, which also carries its own engine or motor.
Most परिभाषाएं of the term specify that automobiles are designed to run primarily on roads, to have seating लिये one to eight people, to typically have चार wheels, और to be constructed principally for the हस्तांतरण of लोगों बल्कि than goods.
The term motorcar रै also been used in the context of electrified रेल systems to denote a car which कृत्यों as a small locomotive लकिन also provides स्पेस for passengers and baggage.
ये locomotive गाड़ियाँ were often used on suburban रूट by दोनो interurban और intercity railroad systems.
It थी estimated in 2010 that the number of automobiles had risen to over 1 billion वाहनों, up from the 500 million of 1986.
The numbers are increasing rapidly, विशेषकर in China and India.
John fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by उसके initials JFK, was the 35th President of the संयुक्त States, serving इससे 1961 जबतक his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the मोटर Torpedo Boats pt-109 and PT-59 दौरान World War II in the South Pacific, कैनेडी represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of प्रतिनिधि from 1947 to 1953 as a डेमोक्रेट.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican candidate रिचर्ड Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have महरूम elected to the office, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद Theodore Roosevelt ), and the first व्यक्ति born in the 20th century to serve as अध्यक्ष.
A Catholic, कैनेडी is the only non- Protestant president, and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency included the खाड़ी of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban मिसाइल Crisis, the building of the Berlin Wall, the स्पेस Race, the African-American Civil Rights Movement, और early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the number of military advisers, special operation forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration अपनाया the policy of the Strategic Hamlet Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It involved certain forced relocation, village internment, और segregation of rural दक्षिण वियतनामी from the northern and southern कम्युनिस्ट insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime, but he was shot और killed by Jack Ruby two days later, before a विचारण could लो place.
The FBI और the Warren Commission officially concluded कि Oswald थी the lone assassin.
However, the United States House Select Committee on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their investigation, The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy, confirmed the findings of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a Congressional investigation that lasted इससे 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s सूचना concerning Kennedy 's निजी life has आइये to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health समस्याएं in जिससे he struggled have become better known, विशेषकर चूंकि the 1990s.
Although initially रखा secret from the सामान्य पब्लिक, reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy बाँधने highly in public opinion ratings of u.S. presidents.
A Siemens MXL fire सचेतक control फलक ( top ) and graphic annunciator ( bottom ) लिये Potomac Hall, at James Madison University.
a Vigilant vm-1 fire सचेतक control unit ( facu ) / autonomous control unit ( ACU ) with integrated voice evacuation और आग सेनानी टेलीफोन system.
Manufactured by एडवर्ड्स, A UTC f & S Company
a Fire Alarm Control फलक ( FACP ), or Fire Alarm कंट्रोल Unit ( FACU ), is the controlling component of a Fire Alarm System.
The फलक receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire, monitors their operational अखंडता and provides लिये automatic control of उपकरण, and transmission of सूचना necessary to prepare the सुविधा for fire based on a predetermined sequence.
The panel may भी सप्लाई electrical energy to operate any associated sensor, control, transmitter, or relay.
There are four basic types of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, and multiplex systems.
This is a list of the first music videos broadcast on MTV 's first दिन, August 1, 1981.
MTV 's पहला day on the air was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and अपलोड onto YouTube in 2010 ( हालांकि only the first चार hours यहूद authentic ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ).
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( भी known as katunayake International Airport and Colombo International Airport ) is one of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय airports serving the city of Colombo, the other is Ratmalana International Airport.
Mattala राजपक्षे International Airport located in दक्षिणी city of Hambantota is the other international airport in श्री Lanka.
Bandaranaike International Airport is located in Katunayake, 22 miles ( 35 km ) उत्तर of Colombo.
It is administered by Airport and Aviation Services ( श्री Lanka ) Ltd.
It is the hub of श्रीलंकन Airlines, the नेशनल carrier of Sri Lanka, and mihin Lanka, the budget एयरलाइन of Sri लंका.
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror film निर्देशित by Darren aronofsky और अभिनीत Natalie पोर्टमैन, Vincent Cassel, and Mila Kunis.
the plot revolves around a production of Tchaikovsky 's Swan झील ballet by a prestigious New York City company.
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White Swan, for जिससे the committed dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a पूर्ण fit, as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan, which are qualities embodied by the new arrival लिली ( Kunis ).
नीना is overwhelmed by a अहसास of immense pressure when she finds herself competing for the part, causing her to lose her tenuous grip on वास्तविकता and descend into a जीना nightmare.
aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a production of Swan Lake with an unrealized screenplay about understudies and the notion of being haunted by a double, समान to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
aronofsky cites Fyodor Dostoyevsky 's `` The Double `` as another प्रेरणा लिये the film.
The director also considered Black Swan a companion टुकड़ा to उसके 2008 film The Wrestler, with दोनो films involving demanding performances for different kinds of आर्ट.
he and Portman first discussed the प्रोजेक्ट in 2000, और बाद a brief attachment to Universal Studios, Black Swan was produced in नई York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures.
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet लिये several महीने prior to फिल्मांकन, and notable आंकड़े from the ballet world helped with फिल्मी production to shape the ballet प्रस्तुतीकरण.
The film premiered as the opening film for the 67th Venice International फिल्मी Festival on सितंबर 1, 2010.
It had a limited release in the United States starting December 3, 2010 and खोली nationwide on December 17.
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release, particularly for पोर्टमैन 's performance and Aronofsky 's direction, and was a significant box office success, grossing $ 329 million worldwide.
The फिल्मी received five Academy Award nominations and Portman won the Best Actress award for the film, as well as many other बेहतरीन Actress पुरस्कार in several guilds and त्यौहार, जबकि Aronofsky was nominated for बेहतरीन Director.
In addition, the film itself प्राप्त a nomination for बेहतरीन चित्र.
The world’s पहला ice-calorimeter, used in the winter of 1782-83, by एंटोनी Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon लाप्लास, to determine the ऊष्मा शामिल in various chemical परिवर्तन ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of अदृश्य heat.
These experiments mark the न्यास of thermochemistry.
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor, meaning heat ) is an object used लिये calorimetry, or the process of measuring the heat of chemical reactions or शारीरिक changes as well as heat क्षमता.
Differential स्कैनिंग calorimeters, isothermal microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters and accelerated रेट calorimeters are among the most आम types.
A सरल calorimeter just consists of a थर्मामीटर attached to a metal संग्राहक full of water निलंबित above a combustion कक्ष.
To find the enthalpy change per mole of a पदार्थ A in a reaction between दो substances a और b, the substances are added to a calorimeter and the initial and final temperatures ( before the प्रतिक्रिया started and after it रै finished ) are noted.
Multiplying the temperature बदलें by the mass and specific heat capacities of the substances gives a value लिये the energy given बंद or absorbed during the reaction.
Dividing the energy change by how many moles of a were present gives इसके enthalpy change of reaction.
This method is used primarily in academic teaching as it describes the theory of कैलोरीमिति.
It does not खाता for the heat loss through the container or the heat capacity of the thermometer and container itself.
in addition, the object placed inside the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter और into the liquid, and the heat absorbed by the calorimeter और the liquid is equal to the heat given off by the metals.
A pair of green flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri, thongs, jandals, or a variety of other names throughout the world ) हैं a type of open-toed sandal typically worn in casual situations, such as outside or at the beach.
They consist of a flat एकमात्र held loosely on the foot by a y-shaped strap that passes between the first and second toes and around either side of the पैर.
They may also be आयोजित to the foot with a single strap over the front of the foot rather than a thong.
The name `` flip-flop '' originated because of the sound कि is made by slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor when walking.
This स्टाइल of footwear has been worn by the लोगों of many संस्कृतियों throughout the संसार, originating as जल्दी as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 b.c.
The modern flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri, which became popular बाद World War ii when soldiers returning to the United States brought them back.
They became लोकप्रिय in casual settings दौरान the 1960s, 1990s, और 2000s, and some varieties have even मिला उनके way into अधिक formal attire, despite criticism.
The use of flip-flops can result in अनेक pains and injuries, including ankle sprains and broken bones.
Some individuals who walk for long अवधि report pain in the feet, ankles, and lower legs.
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results in over-pronation injuries, caused by the foot slipping inwards further than normal.
इस can lead to flat feet and tendonitis.
Other injuries कि may result are due to the footwear 's open-toed nature, such as stubbed toes, cuts, and bruises.
Doctors सुझाएँ purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned सोल्स, as well as those that have a strap that is not canvas और कि comes back almost to the टखने.
The owners of hanjin ओसाका, seen here transiting the Panama Canal in 2008, घोषित general average following an explosion in the जलयान 's engine room on.
The law of general औसत is a legal principle of मेरीटाइम law according to which all parties in a sea venture proportionally share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an आपात.
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea, crew members often have precious little time in which to determine precisely whose cargo they are jettisoning.
Thus, to avoid quarrelling that could waste valuable time, there arose the equitable practice whereby all the merchants जिनकी cargo landed सकुशल would be called on to योगदान a portion, based upon a share or percentage, to the merchant or व्यापारियों whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril.
While सामान्य average traces its origins in ancient maritime law, still it remains part of the admiralty law of most countries.
The first codification of सामान्य average was the York Antwerp Rules of 1890.
American companies accepted it in 1949.
General average requires तीन तत्व which are clearly stated by Mr. Justice grier in Barnard v. Adams:
`` 1st.
a common danger : a खतरे in जिससे vessel, cargo and crew सब participate ; a danger imminent and apparently 'inevitable, ' मगर by voluntarily incurring the loss of a portion of the whole to save the remainder. ''
`` 2nd. वहीँ must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or casting away, of some portion of the joint concern for the purpose of avoiding this imminent peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in other words, a transfer of the peril इससे the whole to a particular portion of the whole. ''
`` 3rd.
This attempt to avoid the imminent common peril जरूर be successful ''.
Example Polish call लिये टीकाकरण against Diphtheria and Tetanus.
A vaccination schedule is a series of vaccinations, including the timing of all doses, which may be either recommended or compulsory, depending on the country of residence.
a vaccine is an antigenic preparation प्रयुक्त to उपज active प्रतिरक्षण to a disease, in order to prevent or reduce the effects of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness, either to उपज sufficient initial immune जवाब or to boost response कि fades over time.
For example, tetanus vaccine boosters are often recommended every 10 years.
Vaccine schedules are developed by governmental एजेंसियों or physicians groups to achieve maximum effectiveness using required and recommended टीके for a locality while minimizing the number of health care system interactions.
Over the पास्ट two decades, the recommended vaccination schedule रै grown rapidly and become more complicated as अनेक new vaccines have been developed.
Some vaccines are recommended only in निश्चित areas ( countries, subnational क्षेत्रों, or at-risk populations ) where a disease is common.
लिये instance, yellow fever vaccination is on the routine टीका अनुसूची of French Guiana, is अनुशंसित in निश्चित regions of Brazil but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease.
In developing countries, vaccine recommendations also take into account the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य care access, the cost of टीके and issues साथ vaccine availability and भंडार.
नमूना vaccinations schedules discussed by the World Health Organization show a विकसित country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's जीवन and उपयोग टीके जिससे cost over $ 700 including administration costs while a developing country उपयोग a schedule providing vaccines in the first 9 months of life और costing only $ 25.
इस अंतर is due to the lower cost of स्वास्थ्य care, the lower लागत of many टीके provided to विकासशील nations, and that more महंगी vaccines, प्रायः for less common diseases, are नहीं utilized.
In 1900, the smallpox vaccine was the only one administered to children.
By the early 1950s, children routinely received four vaccines, for protection विरूद्ध ( diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, and smallpox ), and as many as five shots by दो years of आयु.
Since the mid-1980s, many vaccines have been added to the schedule.
, the US centers for Disease कंट्रोल and Prevention ( CDC ) now recommends vaccination against at least fourteen diseases.
By two years of आयु, U.S. children प्राप्त as many as 24 vaccine injections, और might receive up to पाँच shots during one visit to the doctor.
The use of संयोजन vaccine products अर्थात् that,, the संयुक्त Kingdom 's immunization program consists of 10 injections by the age of two, बल्कि than 25 if vaccination for each disease was given as a separate injection.
दो revellers dance in the streets.
The form of dancing is called `` wining '' ( winding ) pronounced wine-ing
A Music Truck entertains the crowd on the streets.
ट्रक are an integral part of the street parade, featuring live performances or deejays
the Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an annual event आयोजित on the Monday and Tuesday before Ash Wednesday, and is well known for भागीदार 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations.
कार्निवल in Trinidad और Tobago is the most significant event on the आइलैंड्स ' cultural and tourism calendar, with numerous cultural कार्यक्रम कार्यशील in the सीसे up to the street परेड on Carnival Monday and Tuesday.
It is said that if the islanders हैं not celebrating it, तब they are preparing for it, while reminiscing about the past year 's festival.
The heart of the musical जश्न has been calypso ; recently soca has replaced कैलिप्सो as the most celebrated type of music.
Costumes, stickfighting और limbo प्रतियोगिताओं are भी important components of the festival.
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and Tobago is also celebrated in cities worldwide.
These सहित Toronto 's caribana, Miami 's Miami Carnival, Houston Carifest, लंदन 's Notting Hill Carnival as well as New York City 's Labor Day कार्निवल to नाम a few.
Carnival was created जब West African slaves mimicked their French owners who where known for their lavish वेशभूषा balls.
Forbidden to partake in these festivities और confined to their quarters, स्लेव combined elements from their own संस्कृतियों to their master 's fete.
Hence the creation of characters such as jab Jab or jab Molassie ( Devils ), मध्यरात्रि लुटेरों, Imps, Lagahroo, Soucouyant, La diablesse and Demons.
With the abolition of गुलामी in 1838, freed Africans took उनके version of Carnival to the streets through expression of drums, riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population entered Trinidad, Carnival evolved into कया we know आज.
The city of Chicago, Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral चुनाव on Tuesday, February 22, 2011.
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley, a सदस्य of the Democratic Party जो had महरूम in office since 1989, did not seek a seventh term as mayor.
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 याचिका signatures by नवम्बर 22, 2010 to qualify for a place on the ballot.
April 5, 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff election date if no प्रत्याशी received an absolute majority.
rahm Emanuel won the रेस for mayor with more than 55 % of the vote.
He was inaugurated on May 16, 2011.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a सोंग by American इंडी pop band फोस्टर the People.
It थी released as the group 's debut single in September 2010, and the following year was included on their EP फोस्टर the People and their डेब्यू एल्बम Torches.
`` उत्तेजित Up Kicks '' became the group 's breakthrough hit and was one of the सबसे लोकप्रिय songs of 2011.
The song was लिखा and recorded by frontman Mark Foster while he थी working as a commercial झंकार writer.
Contrasting with the upbeat musical composition, the lyrics describe the homicidal thoughts of a troubled youth.
the track प्राप्त considerable attention बाद it was posted online in 2010 as a free डाउनलोड, and it helped the group garner a multi-album रिकार्ड deal साथ Columbia Records imprint Startime अंतरराष्ट्रीय.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a स्लीपर hit ; in 2011, बाद receiving significant airplay on आधुनिक rock stations, the सोंग crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations.
the song खर्च eight consecutive सप्ताह at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in the United राज्य, making it the first Billboard वैकल्पिक Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of लिओन 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009.
The song was widely praised by आलोचकों, and it has महरूम licensed for use in a wide range of लोकप्रिय मीडिया चूंकि its release.
`` उत्तेजित Up Kicks '' received a Grammy Award nomination for Best Pop Duo/Group प्रदर्शन.
The राज्य Fair of West Virginia is an annual state fair लिये West Virginia.
It is held annually in mid-August on the राज्य Fairgrounds in Fairlea, near Lewisburg, West Virginia in the southeastern part of the state.
The State Fairgrounds consists of a large खोलें field for carnivals और exhibitions, a horse track, grandstands, and several exhibition इमारतें.
Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds and, जबतक 2006, free camping was भी available in a विशाल field with running-water toilets and showers, but no hookups.
Campers हैं now charged a small fee.
the White House, the president 's official residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution, the अध्यक्ष of the United States is the head of राज्य and head of government of the United States.
As chief of the कार्यपालिका branch and head of the federal government as a whole, the presidency is the highest political office in the संयुक्त राज्य by influence and recognition.
The president is भी the commander-in-chief of the United राज्य Armed Forces.
The अध्यक्ष is indirectly elected to a four-year पद by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to पुरस्कार an absolute majority of votes to any व्यक्ति ).
चूंकि the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United राज्य Constitution in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice, and no एक who has served more than two सालो of a term to which किसी else was निर्वाचित may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or removal from office of an incumbent President, the Vice President assumes the office.
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the संयुक्त States.
This list शामिल only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States संविधान, which took प्रभाव on March 4, 1789.
For American leaders पहले this अनुसमर्थन, see President of the Continental Congress.
The list does not शामिल any एक्टिंग Presidents अंतर्गत the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have महरूम 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष, four died in office of natural कल्याणकारी ( William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. हार्डिंग, and Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and एक resigned ( रिचर्ड Nixon ).
जार्ज Washington, the first president, was inaugurated in 1789 बाद a unanimous vote of the Electoral College.
William Henry Harrison खर्च the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, and Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट spent the longest साथ over twelve years, but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two शर्तें, and a constitutional amendment, affecting presidents after Harry Truman, was passed to सीमा the number of टाइम्स an individual can be elected अध्यक्ष.
Andrew Jackson, the सातवाँ president, was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 बाद most laws barring non-land-owners from मतदान यहूद repealed.
Warren Harding was the पहला elected after women gained voting rights in 1920.
History रिकॉर्ड four presidents – John Q Adams, रदरफोर्ड B. Hayes, Benjamin हैरिसन और George W. बुश – who lost the popular vote but assumed office.
John F. Kennedy रै been the तभी president of रोमन Catholic आस्था, and the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, Barack Obama, is the first president of अफ़्रीकी descent.
`` लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी '' redirects here.
For the पुरस्कार awarded annually to the best कॉलेज football lineman or linebacker, देखिए Lombardi पुरस्कार.
The विंस Lombardi ट्रॉफी is the trophy awarded each year to the जीतना टोली of the National Football League 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
The trophy is नामित in honor of legendary NFL कोच Vince Lombardi.
इस is a list of tables of the सत्यापित oldest people in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest व्यक्ति or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body that specifically deals in longevity शोध, such as the जराविद्या Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously documented human जीवनकाल is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at आयु 122 years, 164 days.
She met Vincent van Gogh when she was 12 or 13.
इस led to news media attention in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age, beyond कोई reasonable सवाल, in the records of उसके native नगर, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's जीवनकाल has been उत्पादित than for any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan लिये male supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon Kimura, who currently जीवनदान in Japan and is age as of.
चूंकि the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United राज्य, on 17 December 2012, Kimura, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest living व्यक्ति in the world whose age can be documented.
He has भी महरूम the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old वाल्टर Breuning on 14 April 2011.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year old koto Okubo of Japan on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest जीना woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from जापानी, born on 5 March 1898.
the People 's Court is an American arbitration-based reality court show, currently presided over by retired Florida राज्य Circuit Court Judge Marilyn Milian, in which छोटी claims disputes हैं संभाला.
The People 's Court is the first court show to use binding arbitration, introducing the format into the genre in 1981.
The प्रणाली has been duplicated by most of the show 's successors in the न्यायिक genre.
Moreover, The People 's Court is the first popular, long-running reality in the judicial genre.
it was preceded तभी by a few short-lived हकीकत in the genre ; these short-lived predecessors were only loosely related to judicial proceedings, except for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings.
Prior to The People 's Court, the vast majority of TV courtroom shows प्रयुक्त actors, और recreated or fictional मामले ( as did radio before that ).
Among उदाहरण of ये प्रकार of अदालत shows शामिल Famous जूरी ट्रायल and अपना Witness.
The People 's Court has had two contrasting lives.
The show 's पहला life was presided over solely by former Los एंजिल्स काउंटी Superior Court न्यायधीश Joseph Wapner.
His tenure lasted from the show 's डेब्यू on September 14, 1981, until May 21, 1993, when the दिखाएँ was cancelled due to low दरजा.
This बाएँ the दिखाएँ साथ a total of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons.
The show was taped in Los Angeles दौरान इसके पहला जीवन.
After होने cancelled, reruns aired जबतक सितंबर 9, 1994.
On September 8, 1997, after being आउट of production for four years, The People 's अदालत was revived लिये a second जीवन in first-run अनुप्रयोग as a 60-minute program.
Former lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed koch थी chosen as arbiter, जिससे he कायम for 2 seasons from the 1997–98 ऋतु through the 1998–99 ऋतु ( the present life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 season, husband of जूडिथ Sheindlin ( who presides over Judge Judy ) and पूर्व New यॉर्क State Supreme अदालत Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch.
Sheindlin lasted one and a half seasons as he थी replaced towards the end of the 2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ).
Beginning in spring 2001, Florida न्यायधीश Marilyn Milian took over the People 's Court and has presided over the show कभी since.
Once milian completes the 2012–13 season, she will have served as longest arbiter over the श्रेणी with 12 and a हाफ seasons.
As of the present, however, her years on the कार्यक्रम tie Wapner at 12 seasons.
In the 2009-10 टेलीविज़न season, The People 's Courts 2nd/present जीवन outlasted its first when it reached 13 seasons.
जबकि the दिखाएँ taped in New York नगर for the first 15 seasons of its second जीवन, it now टेपों in Stamford, Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season.
On September 3, 2012, The People 's Court 's 2nd/present life डाला its 16th season ( 28th overall season ).
With 28 total seasons, the People 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom program behind the जारी Divorce अदालत at 33 seasons ( from its 3 combined जीवनदान ).
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : Wo'tééneihí ' ) is a state in the पश्चिमी संयुक्त States.
It became the 45th राज्य admitted to the Union on January 4, 1896.
Utah is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the wasatch Front, centering on Salt Lake नगर, leaving विशाल expanses of the state nearly uninhabited and making the population the sixth most urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east, Wyoming on the northeast, idaho on the north, एरिज़ोना on the south, और Nevada on the west.
It also touches a कोने of New मैक्सिको on the southeast.
Utah is the most religiously homogeneous state in the Union.
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The गिरिजाघर of Jesus Christ of latter-day संतो or LDS ( Mormons ), which greatly influences यूटा culture और daily life.
The world headquarters of The Church of Jesus मसीह of latter-day संतो ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital.
The state is a center of transportation, education, information technology and research, government services, mining, और a major tourist destination for बाहरी recreation.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates, Utah is the पांचवां fastest-growing state in the United States as of 2012.
st. George, was the fastest–growing metropolitan area in the United राज्य इससे 2000 to 2005.
A 2012 Gallup national survey मिला Utah overall to be the `` best राज्य to live in '' based on 13 forward-looking measurements including विभिन्न economic, lifestyle, and health-related आउटलुक metrics.
coldwater is a small town in Tate काउंटी, Mississippi.
It is in the Memphis Metropolitan Area.
The population थी 1,674 at the 2000 census.
The hard palate is a thin horizontal बोनी plate of the skull, located in the छत of the मुँह.
It spans the arch formed by the upper teeth.
It is formed by the palatine process of the maxilla and horizontal थाली of palatine bone.
It forms a partition between the nasal passages and the mouth.
Also on the anterior portion of the roof of the hard तालु is the rugae which are the irregular ridges in the mucous झिल्ली that help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx.
This partition is जारी deeper into the mouth by a fleshy extension पुकारा the soft palate.
पूरा set of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The tanakh (, or ; also tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a name प्रयुक्त in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The Tanakh is also known as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '', also ज्ञात as the Five Books of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
the नाम `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that जिससे is read '', is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी term for the Tanakh.
The books of the tanakh यहूद relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each पीढी, called the Oral Torah.
Sobriety checkpoint in जर्मनी
ड्राइविंग under the influence ( DUI ), driving जबकि intoxicated ( dwi ), शराबी driving, नशे driving, पेय driving, operating अंतर्गत the influence, drinking and driving, or impaired ड्राइविंग is the crime of ड्राइविंग a motor vehicle with blood levels of दारू in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol सामग्री '', or `` bac '' ).
Similar regulations cover driving or operating certain types of machinery while affected by drinking alcohol or taking अन्य दवाएँ, including, but not सीमित to prescription drugs.
This is a दण्ड offense in most nations.
convictions do नहीं necessarily involve actual driving of the vehicle.
in most jurisdictions a measurement such as a blood alcohol content ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज स्तर, ऐसे as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the ठोकर, with no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol.
In कुछ jurisdictions, वहीँ is an aggravated category of the offense at a higher level e.g. 0.12 %.
In सबसे countries, anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing someone while under the influence of alcohol or drugs can be heavily fined, as in France, in addition to होने given a lengthy prison sentence.
कुछ कार्य have their own rules and BAC limits, for example commercial pilot, and the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % सीमा for train crew.
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; लिये example, the state of California has a 0.08 % BAC limit, जिससे is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a commercial driver 's license.
The California bac limit is 0.01 % for those younger than 21 years of आयु and those on probation for a previous DUI conviction.
Some large corporations have their अपना नियम ; Union Pacific Railroad रै their own BAC limit of 0.02 % कि, if violated during a random test or a for-cause test — for उदाहरण, after a traffic दुर्घटना — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire.
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted truth in sentencing laws that enforce strict दिशानिर्देश on sentencing, differing from previous practice where prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued.
Some jurisdictions have judicial guidelines requiring a अनिवार्य minimum sentence.
Penalties लिये DUI आरोप range from expensive शुल्क to forfetiruree of your license plates and in some गंभीर हालातों, your vehicle.
A drunk driving simulator in Montréal, कनाडा
The specific criminal offense may be called, depending on the jurisdiction, driving under the influence [ of alcohol or other drugs ] ( DUI ), ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत intense influence ( DUII ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), operating अंतर्गत the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ), operating a मोटर vehicle while intoxicated ( OMVI ), ड्राइविंग under the combined influence of alcohol and/or other drugs, driving अंतर्गत the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a गाडी ].
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling, boating, piloting aircraft, use of motile फार्म equipment such as tractors और combines, riding horses or driving a horse-drawn vehicle, or bicycling, संभवतः साथ different BAC स्तर than driving.
In some jurisdictions वहीँ are separate charges depending on the vehicle प्रयुक्त, ऐसे as BWI ( bicycling while intoxicated ), which may carry a lighter sentence.
in the United States, लोकल law enforcement agencies made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide for driving under the influence of alcohol in 1996, compared to 1.9 million such arrests during the peak year in 1983.
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI offenders यहूद in थाना or jail, down from 593,000 in 1990 and up इससे 270,100 in 1986.
Officers from US Customs and Border सुरक्षा boarding a ship
Law enforcement in the United राज्य is one of three major components of the criminal justice system of the United States, along with courts और corrections.
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the different समूह that make up the criminal justice system based on their अपराधों deterrence purpose, each घटक operates independently from one another.
however, the न्यायपालिका is vested साथ the power to मेक legal determinations regarding the conduct of the other two components.
अलावा from maintaining अनुक्रम and service functions, the purpose of policing is the investigation of suspected दण्ड कार्यकलाप and the referral of the परिणाम of investigations और of suspected criminals to the courts.
Law enforcement, to varying degrees at different levels of government और in अलग agencies, is also commonly charged with the responsibilities of deterring criminal activity and of preventing the successful आयोग of crimes in progress ; the service और enforcement of वारंट, writs and other आदेश of the courts.
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing first response to emergencies and अन्य खतरे to public safety ; the protection of certain public facilities और infrastructure ; the maintenance of public order ; the सुरक्षा of पब्लिक officials ; and the आपरेशन of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ).
Elmer figueroa Arce ( born June 28, 1968 ), best known under the stage name Chayanne, is a प्यूर्टो rican लैटिन pop singer and actor.
As a solo artist, Chayanne has released 21 solo albums and sold over 15 million एल्बम worldwide.
`` World War Hulk '' is a कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर storyline that ran through a स्वः titled limited series और various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007, featuring the Hulk.
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk, with Greg Pak as writer और John Romita, Jr. as penciller, and three other limited series : World युद्ध Hulk : Front Line, World युद्ध Hulk : गामा corps, and World War Hulk : x-men.
It also भागा through several अन्य Marvel comics series.
The plot is the culmination of a series of events कि began with the Hulk being tricked into space by the Illuminati और a life model decoy of Nick Fury, the Hulk 's subsequent exile seen in ग्रह हल्क and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati.
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; May 26, 1907 – June 11, 1979 ), better ज्ञात by उसके stage नाम John Wayne, was an American film actor, director and producer.
an अकादमी Award -winner, वेन was among the top box दफ्तर draws for three decades, and was नामित the all-time top money-making star.
An enduring अमरीकी प्रतीक, he epitomized rugged masculinity and is famous for his demeanor, including his distinctive calm voice, walk, and ऊँचाई.
Wayne was born in Winterset, Iowa but his family relocated to the greater Los Angeles क्षेत्रफल when he was four years old.
He मिला कार्य at local film studios जब he lost his football scholarship to यूएससी as a परिणाम of a bodysurfing accident.
Initially working for the Fox Film Corporation, he mostly appeared in small bit भाग.
His first अग्रणी role came in the widescreen epic the बिग Trail ( 1930 ), which led to leading roles in numerous films throughout the 1930s, many of them in the western genre.
His career rose to further heights in 1939, with John Ford 's stagecoach making him an instant superstar.
वेन होता go on to star in 142 pictures, primarily typecast in Western films.
Among his best ज्ञात later films are The शांत Man ( 1952 ), जिससे follows उसे as an irish-american boxer and his प्रेम affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen o'hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ), in which he plays a Civil War veteran who seeks आउट उसके abducted niece ; Rio Bravo ( 1959 ), playing a Sheriff with Dean Martin ; True Grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous u.s. मार्शल who sets out to avenge a man 's death in the भूमिका that won वेन an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ), उसके final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling कर्कट.
Wayne moved to Orange काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the 1960s, and was a prominent Republican in Hollywood, supporting anti-communist positions.
He died of stomach cancer in 1979.
in June 1999, the अमरीकी Film संस्थान named Wayne 13th among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of सब Time.
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 जनवरी 1642 ), थी an Italian physicist, mathematician, astronomer, and philosopher who played a major भूमिका in the वैज्ञानिक क्रान्ति.
उसके achievements शामिल improvements to the telescope and consequent astronomical observations and support for Copernicanism.
Galileo has महरूम called the `` father of modern observational astronomy ``, the `` father of modern physics ``, the `` पिता of science '', and `` the Father of Modern Science ''.
His योगदान to observational astronomy include the telescopic पुष्टि of the phases of Venus, the discovery of the four largest satellites of Jupiter ( named the Galilean moons in his honour ), and the observation and analysis of sunspots.
गैलीलियो also worked in applied science and प्रौद्योगिकी, inventing an improved military compass and अन्य instruments.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his आजीवन, when most subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic प्रणाली.
He मिले with opposition from astronomers, who doubted heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed stellar parallax.
The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in 1615, and वे concluded that it could be supported as तभी a सम्भावना, not an established फैक्ट.
गैलीलियो बाद defended his views in Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief संसार Systems, जिससे appeared to आक्रमण पोप Urban VIII and thus alienated him and the jesuits, जो had both supported Galileo up जबतक this point.
He was आजमाया by the Inquisition, found `` vehemently suspect of heresy '', forced to recant, and खर्च the rest of his life under house arrest.
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he wrote एक of his finest works, Two नई Sciences, in which he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier, on the two sciences now called kinematics और शक्ति of materials.
55 '' lg OLED TV showcased at ces 2012
Prototype OLED lighting panel developed by Lumiotec
Demonstration of a flexible OLED device
An oled ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode ( LED ) in which the emissive electroluminescent layer is a फिल्मी of organic compound which emits लाइट in response to an electric current.
This layer of सशुल्क semiconductor is situated between two electrodes.
Generally, at least one of these electrodes is पारदर्शी.
oleds are used to create digital displays in devices such as television screens, computer monitors, portable systems such as mobile फोन, handheld games consoles and PDAs.
A major area of शोध is the development of white oled devices for use in solid-state lighting applications.
There are two main families of oleds : those based on छोटी अणुओं and those employing polymers.
adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical cell or लैक, which has a slightly different mode of आपरेशन.
OLED displays can use either passive-matrix ( PMOLED ) or active-matrix addressing schemes.
active-matrix OLEDs ( AMOLED ) require a thin-film transistor backplane to switch each individual pixel on or off, but allow for उच्चतर resolution and larger प्रदर्शक sizes.
An OLED display works without a backlight.
Thus, it can display deep black levels और can be thinner and lighter than a liquid crystal display ( LCD ).
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark रूम an OLED स्क्रीन can achieve a higher contrast ratio than an LCD, whether the LCD uses ठंडा cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight.
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal, Canada, प्रर्दशित its French facade ( English reverse ) और the French term lait de poule ( वस्तुतः, `` मुर्गी 's milk '' )
Eggnog, or egg nog, is a sweetened dairy -based beverage traditionally made with मिल्क and/or cream, sugar, and whipped अंडे ( which gives it a frothy texture ).
Brandy, rum, व्हिस्की, bourbon, vodka, or a combination of liquors are often added.
The finished serving is often garnished with a sprinkling of ground cinnamon or nutmeg.
it was भी known as the egg milk punch.
Eggnog is a popular drink throughout the United States and Canada, and is प्रायः associated with क्रिसमस.
Eggnog may be added as a flavoring to food or पेय ऐसे as कॉफी and चाय.
Eggnog as a custard can भी be प्रयुक्त as an ice cream आधार.
a pasty (, ), ( sometimes known in Britain as a cornish pasty, and in the United States as a pastie or British pasty ) is a baked pastry, a traditional किस्में of which is particularly associated with Cornwall, the westernmost county in England.
It is बना by placing uncooked filling typically of मांस and सब्जियां, without meat in vegetarian versions, on a flat pastry circle और folding it to wrap the filling, crimping the edge to form a seal.
After baking, the result is a raised semicircular comestible.
the traditional cornish pasty, which रै Protected Geographical Indication ( pgi ) status in Europe, is filled with beef, sliced or diced potato, swede ( भी known as a yellow शलजम or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as शलजम ) और onion, seasoned with salt and pepper, and is baked.
Today, the pasty is the खाना सबसे संबद्ध साथ Cornwall, it is regarded as the national dish, and it accounts for 6 % of the Cornish food अर्थव्यवस्था.
pasties with many अलग fillings हैं made ; some दुकानें specialise in selling सब sorts of pasties.
The origins of the pasty are unclear, though there are many references to them throughout ऐतिहासिक documents and fiction.
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the spread of Cornish miners, and variations can be found in Australia, the United राज्य, Mexico and elsewhere.
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is एक of three major parts of the autonomic nervous system : the others होने the enteric और parasympathetic systems.
Its general action is to mobilize the body 's nervous system fight-or-flight response.
it is, however, constantly क्रियाशील at a basic level to maintain homeostasis.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable डिवाइस, ऐसे as mobile phones, digital कैमरे, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ).
sd technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of उत्पाद categories and अधिक than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital format includes चार card families available in three अलग form factors.
the four परिवारों are the original standard-capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( sdhc ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with आंकड़ा storage.
The three form factors are the original size, the `` mini '' size, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of form कारकों and यंत्र families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a smaller कार्ड in a मेजबान device built to hold a larger card.
मेजबान devices that comply with नए versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards, but this article explains several कारकों कि can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer कार्ड may प्रस्ताव वृहद capacity than the host device can handle.
A newer कार्ड may use a file system the host यंत्र can नहीं navigate.
Use of an SDIO card requires the host यंत्र be designed for the input/output functions the कार्ड provides.
The संगठन of the card थी changed starting with the SDHC family.
Some विक्रेता produced SDSC cards above 1 GB before the SDA had मानकीकृत a method of doing so.
the SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its specifications and assure users of compatibility.
the following is a List of critics of the New Deal.
Daniel लॉरेंस Whitney ( born February 17, 1963 ) best known by his stage name and character Larry the Cable Guy, is an American stand-up हास्य, actor, देश music artist, आवाज़ actor, and पूर्व radio personality.
He was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy Tour, a comedy troupe which included Bill engvall, रॉन श्वेत, and Jeff foxworthy ( with whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV ).
Whitney has released seven comedy albums, of which three have been certified सुनहरा by the RIAA लिये shipments of 500,000 नक़ल.
In addition, he has स्ट्रक्चर in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related फिल्मों, as खूब as in the films Larry the Cable guy : Health इंस्पेक्टर, डेल्टा तमाशा, and witless Protection, as खूब as voicing Mater in the Cars franchise.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` Git-R-Done ! '' is also the title of his book.
On January 26, 2010, the TV channel इतिहास announced that it was ordering a श्रेणी starring व्हिटनी called Only in America with लैरी the Cable guy, in which he होता explore the country and immerse खुद in different lifestyles, कार्य, and शौक.
The first episode of the series aired on फ़रवरी 8, 2011.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible लिये intestinal absorption of कैल्सियम and phosphate.
In इंसानो, the most important related compounds of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as they constitute कया we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize vitamin d ( from cholesterol ) when sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although vitamin d is commonly पुकारा a विटामिन, it is नहीं actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by most mammals exposed to धूप.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in their आहार. )
An organic chemical यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, and जरूर be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, विटामिन d was discovered in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary substance that थी lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called vitamins, in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
उपायों of serum levels प्रतिबिंबित endogenous synthesis from exposure to धूप as well as सेवन इससे the diet, and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D इससे sun exposure works in a प्रतिक्रिया loop that prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from धूप, no सुझाव are issued by the Institute of Medicine, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to मिलें विटामिन D requirements.
Accordingly, the dietary सन्दर्भ Intakes for विटामिन D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन D is इससे उनके आहार, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the जिगर विटामिन D is converted to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the विशिष्ट vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the गुर्दे to calcitriol, the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of अस्थि.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other उद्देश्य, such as the proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond इसके use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण for other स्वास्थ्य effects of vitamin d supplementation in the general population is असंगत.
The best प्रमाण of benefit is for bone health और a decrease in मृत्यु in elderly महिलाओं.
Standard रूप of the periodic तालिका.
The colors represent different categories of elements explained below.
The periodic table is a table display of the chemical elements, organized on the basis of their परमाणु numbers, electron configurations, and recurring रासायनिक गुण.
Elements are प्रस्तुत in अनुक्रम of increasing atomic क्रमांक ( number of protons ).
The मानक form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or प्रमुख देह of elements, positioned ऊपर a smaller double row of elements.
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the बाएँ, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are पुकारा periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, and p-blocks are पुकारा groups, with some of these having names ऐसे as the halogens or the noble gases.
चूंकि, by परिभाषा, a periodic तालिका incorporates recurring trends, any such table can be used to derive संबंध between the गुण of the तत्व और predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a परिणाम, a periodic table—whether in the मानक form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior, and such tables are widely used in रसायन and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited with the publication, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
he developed his table to illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known तत्व.
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in इस table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the तत्व in question were subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since महरूम विस्तारित and refined साथ the discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the development of new सैद्धांतिक मॉडल to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from परमाणु numbers 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized.
The elements इससे 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम found to exist naturally, although some are found तभी in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
the elements after 98 have तभी been synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is होने pursued, साथ the question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have also been produced in laboratories.
Minimum wage by U.S. state and U.S. territory ( American Samoa, Guam, प्यूर्टो Rico, Virgin Islands ), as of jan. 1, 2013.
in the संयुक्त States, मजदूर are generally हकदार to be paid no कम than the statutory minimum wage.
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage स्तर of $ 7.25 per घंटा, while some states and municipalities have नियत minimum wage levels higher than the federal level, with the highest राज्य minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013.
Among those paid by the घंटा in 2012, 1.6 million were reported as earning exactly the prevailing संघीय न्यूनतम wage.
About 2.0 million were reported as earning wages below the minimum.
साथ, these 3.6 million workers साथ wages at or नीचे the minimum made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers.
A चयन of Bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered at a liquor store in Decatur, Georgia
Evan Williams bourbon whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a type of American whiskey – a barrel-aged distilled spirit made primarily from corn.
The name of the स्पिरिट गर्भाशयी from its ऐतिहासिक संघ with an area known as Old Bourbon, around what is now Bourbon County, Kentucky ( which, in turn, was named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ).
it has been produced since the 18th सदी.
जबकि it may be made anywhere in the United States, it is strongly associated with the American South in general, and केंटकी in particular.
the Mona लिसा ( La Gioconda or la joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a स्त्री by the Italian artist लियोनार्डो da Vinci, which has been acclaimed as `` the बेहतरीन ज्ञात, the most visited, the सबसे written about, the most सुंग परिचय, the most parodied कार्य of art in the world. ''
The पेंटिंग, thought to be a portrait of Lisa gherardini, the बीवी of francesco del Giocondo, is in oil on a poplar panel, and is believed to have been चित्रित between 1503 और 1506.
It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the property of the French Republic, on permanent display at the Musée du louvre in पेरिस since 1797.
The ambiguity of the subject 's expression, which is अक्सर described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the subtle modeling of forms and the atmospheric illusionism were अनोखा qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work.
Robert Allen Palmer ( 19 January 1949 – 26 September 2003 ), was an अंग्रेज़ी singer-songwriter and musician.
He was known for his distinctive voice and the eclectic mix of musical styles on his albums, combining soul, jazz, rock, pop, reggae and blues.
He found success दोनो in his solo करियर and in the musical अधिनियम The Power Station, and had Top 10 songs in दोनो the UK and the US.
His iconic music videos by टेरेंस Donovan for the hits `` Addicted to Love `` और `` बस irresistible `` featured identically dressed dancing महिलाओं with pale faces, अंधेरा eye makeup और bright रेड lipstick, which resembled the महिलाओं in the art of Patrick Nagel, an कलाकार popular in the 1980s.
sharp-suited, his involvement in the music industry commenced in the 1960s, covered five decades and included a spell with Vinegar Joe.
Palmer received a number of awards throughout उसके career, including two Grammy Awards for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance, an MTV Video Music Award, and was twice nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male.
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) is a computed tomography technique used to visualize arterial and venous बरतन throughout the body.
This ranges इससे arteries सेवारत the brain to those bringing blood to the lungs, गुर्दे, arms and legs.
the Champs-Élysées decorated with flags for bastille Day
horseman of the French Republican गार्ड during the 2007 military parade on the Champs-Élysées.
prise de la Bastille by Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent Houel
Bastille दिन is the name given in English-speaking countries to the फ्रेंच National Day, जिससे is celebrated on the 14th of जुलाई each साल.
in France, it is formally called la fête Nationale ( ; The National जश्न ) और commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of जुलाई ).
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération, आयोजित on the पहला anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 जुलाई 1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the bastille fortress-prison was seen as a प्रतीक of the uprising of the modern स्वदेश, and of the reconciliation of all the फ्रेंच inside the संवैधानिक monarchy which preceded the पहला Republic, during the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति.
Festivities and official ceremonies are आयोजित all over France.
the oldest और largest regular military parade in Europe is held on the morning of 14 July, on the Champs-Élysées एवेन्यू in पेरिस in front of the President of the Republic, फ्रेंच officials and foreign अतिथि.
the United States of अमेरिका ( USA or U.S.A. ), commonly called the United States ( US or u.S. ) or America, is a federal republic consisting of fifty states और a federal district.
The lower forty-eight contiguous states and the federal district of Washington, D.C. are in central North America between कनाडा and Mexico.
The state of Alaska is west of Canada and east of Russia across the Bering जलसन्धि, and the राज्य of Hawaii is in the mid-North प्रशांत.
The country भी has five populated और nine unpopulated territories in the Pacific and the Caribbean.
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 लाख km2 ) and with around 315 लाख people, the United States is the third- or fourth-largest country by total area और the third-largest by both जमीन area and population.
It is one of the world 's most ethnically विविध and multicultural राष्ट्र, the product of large-scale immigration from many देशों.
The geography and climate of the U.S. is also extremely diverse, with deserts, plains, forests, and mountains that हैं home to a wide variety of species.
Paleoindians migrated इससे Asia to what is now the United राज्य mainland around 15,000 years ago.
After 1500, Old संसार diseases introduced by Europeans greatly reduced उनके populations.
European colonization began around 1600 and came mostly from England.
The United राज्य emerged from thirteen British colonies located along the Atlantic seaboard.
Disputes between Great Britain and the American colonies led to the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
On जुलाई 4, 1776, delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously issued the Declaration of Independence, which स्थापित the संयुक्त States of America.
The American Revolutionary War, जिससे ended with the मान्यता of independence of the United States from the Kingdom of Great Britain, was the first successful war of independence विरूद्ध a यूरोपीय colonial empire.
The वर्तमान Constitution was अपनाया on September 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven Amendments have since been added to the Constitution.
The first टेन amendments, collectively named the Bill of अधिकारों, were ratified in 1791 और guarantee many आधारभूत civil rights and freedoms.
Driven by the doctrine of manifest नियति, the United States embarked on a vigorous expansion across North America throughout the 19th century.
This involved displacing native tribes, acquiring नई territories, and gradually admitting नई राज्य.
The अमरीकी Civil War ended legalized slavery in the United States.
By the end of the उन्नीसवीं century, the संयुक्त States extended into the Pacific Ocean, और इसके economy was the world 's largest.
The Spanish–American War और पुष्टि the देश 's status as a वैश्विक military power.
The United States emerged from as a वैश्विक superpower, the पहला country साथ nuclear weapons, and a permanent सदस्य of the संयुक्त Nations Security परिषद.
The समाप्त of the Cold War and the dissolution of the Soviet Union left the संयुक्त States as the एकमात्र superpower.
The United States is a विकसित country और has the world 's largest national अर्थव्यवस्था, with an estimated 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 खरब 19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity, as of 2011.
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010, although अमेरिका 's wealth inequality was also ranked highest among OECD countries by the World Bank.
The economy is fueled by an abundance of प्राकृतिक संसाधन, a well-developed infrastructure, और ऊँची productivity ; और while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers.
The country accounts for 39 % of global military spending, and is a leading आर्थिक, political, and cultural force in the world, as well as a leader in scientific research and technological नवीनता.
The NCAA Men 's Division i Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each spring in the United States, currently featuring 68 college basketball teams, to determine the national championship of the major college basketball टीमों.
The टूर्नामेंट, organized by the National कॉलेजिएट Athletic Association ( NCAA ), was created during 1939 by the National Association of Basketball Coaches, and was the idea of ओहियो State University coach Harold Olsen.
Played mostly during March, it is known informally as March Madness or the बिग Dance, and has become one of the सबसे famous annual sporting events in the संयुक्त States.
the NCAA has credited bob Walsh of the सिएटल Organizing Committee for starting the March Madness celebration during 1984.
The tournament teams include champions from 31 प्रभाग I conferences ( which प्राप्त automatic bids ), and 37 टीमों which are awarded at-large berths.
These `` at-large '' टीमों are chosen by an NCAA selection committee, as detailed below.
The 64 teams are विभाजित into four regions and organized into a सिंगल विलोपन `` bracket '', जिससे predetermines, जब a टोली विन्स a game, which team it होगा face next.
Each टोली is `` seeded '', or ranked, within its region.
After an initial चार games between eight lower-ranked teams, the tournament occurs दौरान the कोर्स of three weekends, at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States.
lower-ranked teams are placed in the कोष्ठक against उच्चतर क्रमित teams.
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams, from a गोलाकार of 64, to a `` मीठी Sixteen '', and for the last weekend of the Tournament a फाइनल चार ; the Final Four is usually played दौरान the first weekend of April.
ये four teams, one from each region, then compete in one location for the national championship.
the tournament has been at least partially televised since 1969.
Presently, the खेल are reported by सीबीएस, tbs, TNT, और truTV by the trade-name NCAA कूच Madness.
Since 2011, all games are available for viewing nationwide.
As television coverage has grown, so too रै the टूर्नामेंट 's popularity.
Presently, लाखो of Americans `` भरण out a bracket '', predicting winners of all 67 games.
साथ 11 national titles, UCLA has the record लिये the most ncaa Men 's Division I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles.
The University of Kentucky is second, with 8 national titles, while इंडियाना University और the University of North कैरोलिना हैं tied for third with 5 national titles.
Duke University ranks fifth with 4 national titles.
A sample of सिंथेटिक motor आयल
Synthetic oil is a स्नेहक consisting of रासायनिक compounds that are artificially made ( synthesized ).
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components rather than whole crude oil, but can also be synthesized from other raw materials.
Synthetic आयल is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum जब operating in extremes of temperature, because, in सामान्य, it provides श्रेष्ठ mechanical और chemical properties than those found in traditional mineral oils.
Aircraft jet engines, लिये example, require the use of synthetic oils, whereas aircraft piston engines do नहीं.
बेवकूफ़ is an American reality series, originally shown on एमटीवी from 2000 to 2002, featuring people performing various dangerous, crude self-injuring स्टंट and pranks.
The दिखाएँ served as a launchpad for the television and एक्टिंग careers of Bam Margera, Steve-O, and also Johnny knoxville, who previously had only a few नाबालिग एक्टिंग roles.
Since 2002, तीन बेवकूफ़ films have been produced और released by MTV corporate sibling Paramount Pictures, continuing the franchise after its run on television.
The show sparked several spin-offs including Viva La Bam, Wildboyz, Homewrecker, Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid.
The show placed # 68 on Entertainment साप्ताहिक `` New tv Classics '' list.
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born नवम्बर 3, 1952 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, comedienne, लेखक, television producer, director, and 2012 presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and स्वतंत्रता Party.
barr began उसके career in stand-up comedy at clubs before gaining fame for her role in the sitcom Roseanne.
The show थी a hit and lasted नौ सीज़न, from 1988 to 1997.
वो won both an Emmy and a सुनहरी Globe Award for Best Actress for her work on the दिखाएँ.
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess '' persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a realistic show about a strong mother जो was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism.
The पोती of immigrants from यूरोपीय और Russia, Barr was the oldest of four children in a working-class Jewish नमक Lake City family ; she was also active in the LDS Church.
In 1974, she शादीशुदा Bill Pentland, with whom she had तीन children, before divorcing in 1990 and marrying comedian Tom Arnold for four years.
Controversy arose when she संग `` the Star-Spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball game, followed by grabbing उसके crotch and spitting.
After her sitcom ended, she launched उसके own talk show, The Roseanne Show, which aired from 1998 to 2000.
in 2005, she returned to stand-up comedy with a संसार tour.
In 2011, she starred in an unscripted TV दिखाएँ, Roseanne 's nuts, that lasted from जुलाई to September of कि year, about her life on a Hawaiian farm.
In जल्दी 2012, Barr घोषित her candidacy for the अध्यक्षीय nomination of the Green Party.
Barr lost the nomination to jill Stein.
She then sought the presidential नामांकन of the Peace and Freedom Party, जिससे she won on अगस्त 4, 2012.
Barr received 61,971 votes in the general election, placing sixth overall.
francesco Albani 's 17th century Baptism of Christ is a typical depiction with the sky opening and the पावन Spirit descending as a dove.
The baptism of Jesus marks the beginning of his public ministry.
This event is recorded in the canonical gospels of Matthew, चिह्नित और Luke.
जॉन 's gospel करता not describe Jesus ' baptism, but John the Baptist does testify of the other things in.
in the New Testament, John the Baptist preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of पापों ( ), and घोषित himself a forerunner of he कि would baptize `` साथ the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ).
In so doing he थी तैयारी the way for Jesus.
Jesus came to the जॉर्डन River where he थी baptized by John.
The baptismal झाँकी includes the heavens opening, a dove-like descent of the Holy Spirit, and a voice from heaven saying, `` This is my beloved Son, in जिसको I am well pleased. ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that Jesus was baptized by John as an historical event to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned.
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically certain facts परिचय him, and often use it as the starting अंक लिये the study of the historical Jesus.
The baptism is one of the five major milestones in the gospel narrative of the life of Jesus, the others होने the Transfiguration, Crucifixion, Resurrection, and Ascension.
Most Christian denominations view the baptism of Jesus as an important event and a basis लिये the ईसाई rite of baptism ( see also ).
In Eastern Christianity, Jesus ' baptism is commemorated on 6 January, the feast of Epiphany.
In the Roman Catholic गिरिजाघर, the Anglican नियाज़, the लूथरन Churches और some अन्य Western denominations, it is recalled on a day within the following week, the feast of the baptism of the रब.
In Roman Catholicism, the baptism of Jesus is one of the Luminous Mysteries sometimes added to the rosary.
It is a Trinitarian feast in the Eastern Orthodox Churches.
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the अन्य forms of vitamin b12, occurring as dark red crystals that freely रूप cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin b12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन with a key role in the सामान्य functioning of the brain and बेचैन system, and for the formation of blood.
It is एक of the eight B vitamins.
it is normally शामिल in the metabolism of every cell of the human body, विशेषकर affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण और regulation, but also fatty acid संश्लेषण and energy उत्पादन.
Neither fungi, पौधे, nor पशु हैं सक्षम of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis, although many भोजन are a natural source of b12 क्युकी of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally जटिल vitamin and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
विटामिन B12 consists of a क्लास of chemically related यौगिकों ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
It contains the biochemically rare element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is संपन्नता only by bacteria ( which प्रायः produce hydroxocobalamin ), but conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be संपन्नता in the human body.
A आम semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does नहीं occur in nature, लकिन is produced from बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements, and as a food additive, because of इसके stability and lower production cost.
In the देह it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more महंगी pharmacological products and food supplements.
the extra यूटिलिटी of these is currently debated.
विटामिन B12 थी discovered from इसके relationship to the बीमारी pernicious रक्ताल्पता, जिससे is an autoimmune disease in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12, so a lack of intrinsic फ़ैक्टर, as देखी in pernicious anemia, कल्याणकारी a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 war film produced, directed and co-written by Stanley Kubrick.
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel The Short-Timers and stars Matthew Modine, Vincent D'Onofrio, R. Lee Ermey, Arliss Howard, and आदम Baldwin.
The फिल्मी follows a platoon of U.S. Marines through their प्रशिक्षण and the experiences of दो of the platoon 's Marines in the tet Offensive दौरान the वियतनाम War.
The film 's title refers to the full metal jacket गोली used by infantry riflemen.
The film received critical acclaim.
It received an अकादमी Award नामांकन for Best Adapted Screenplay लिये Kubrick, Michael Herr and Gustav hasford.
In 2001, the American Film Institute placed पूरा Metal Jacket at # 95 in their `` AFI 's 100 Years... 100 thrills `` poll.
TMZ is a celebrity news website that debuted on November 8, 2005.
It was a सहयोग between एओएल and telepictures Productions, a division of Warner Bros., जबतक Time warner divested AOL in 2009.
However, it remained affiliated with AOL News and has the AOL News logo affixed in the upper right corner.
The name TMZ stands लिये the historic `` studio zone `` or 30-mile zone radius from the intersection of West Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega boulevard in लॉस Angeles.
TMZ 's मैनेजिंग editor is Harvey Levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist who was previously a legal विशेषज्ञ for the Los एंजिल्स television station KCBS-TV.
the site claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews ; however, Levin has admitted that TMZ does `` sometimes pay sources for leads on stories ''.
Levin रै stated that `` everything is शोधकार्य and vetted for accuracy. ''
A companion TV series, tmz on TV, debuted on सितंबर 10, 2007.
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film निर्मित by Kevin Williamson, directed by Wes Craven and लिखा by Ehren Kruger, starring Neve Campbell, Courteney कॉक्स arquette and David arquette.
It was released on फ़रवरी 4, 2000 as the third किश्त in the Scream film series.
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and follows Sidney Prescott ( कैम्पबेल ) who has gone into self-imposed isolation following the events of the previous two films but is drawn to Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film भीतर a film `` stab 3 ''.
Scream 3 combines the violence of the slasher genre साथ comedy and `` whodunit `` रहस्य while satirizing the cliché of film trilogies.
Unlike the पिछला Scream films, वहीँ was an increased emphasis on comedic elements and the violence and horror थी reduced in जवाब to increased public scrutiny about violence in मीडिया following the Columbine High School नरसंहार.
the film was the concluding अध्याय of the Scream series until it was revived with a sequel, Scream 4, in 2011.
Williamson provided a five-page outline लिये दो sequels to Scream when auctioning his original script, उम्मीद to entice bidders साथ the potential of buying a franchise.
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant he was unable to develop a complete script for Scream 3 and writing duties यहूद undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded much of विलियमसन 's notes.
craven and Marco Beltrami returned to सीधा and score the film respectively as they था with the previous two श्रेणी प्रविष्टियां.
Production was troubled with script rewrites, with pages sometimes only ready on the day of filming, और scheduling difficulties with the main cast.
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically worse than its preceding films, कमाई over $ 161 million and with many critics claiming that the film had become कया Scream originally `` spoofed ``.
Despite ऋणात्मक आलोचना the फिल्मी did receive praise with reviewers calling it the perfect end to the Scream trilogy.
As of 2012, the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in North America, following Scream at number 1 and Scream 2 at क्रमांक 2.
The film 's साउंडट्रैक was well-received, spending चौदह weeks on the Billboard 200 और reaching a high of # 32.
Shoulder impingement syndrome, also called दुखद arc syndrome, supraspinatus syndrome, swimmer 's कंधे, and thrower 's shoulder, is a clinical syndrome which occurs when the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles become irritated and inflamed as वे pass through the subacromial space, the passage beneath the acromion.
इस can परिणाम in pain, weakness and loss of गति at the shoulder.
JLA was a monthly comic book published by dc कॉमिक्स from January 1997 to April 2006 featuring the इंसाफ League.
The colonial history of the United States कवर the history of यूरोपीय settlements इससे the प्रारंभ of colonization of America until their incorporation into the संयुक्त States.
In the late 16th century, England, फ़्रांस, Spain and the नीदरलैंड्स launched major colonization programs in eastern उत्तर अमेरिका.
Small early attempts—such as the अंग्रेज़ी खोया Colony of Roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the मौत rate of the first arrivals was बहुत high.
nevertheless कामयाब colonies were established.
European settlers came from a किस्में of social और धार्मिक groups.
no aristocrats settled permanently, but a क्रमांक of adventurers, soldiers, farmers, and tradesmen arrived.
विविधता थी an American characteristic as the Dutch of New netherland, the Swedes and finns of New Sweden, the English Quakers of Pennsylvania, the English Puritans of New England, the English settlers of Jamestown, और the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia, came to the new महाद्वीप और built colonies with distinctive सोशल, religious, political and economic styles.
Occasionally one colony took कंट्रोल of another ( during wars between their European parents ).
तभी in Nova Scotia ( अभी part of Canada ) किया the conquerors निकाल the previous colonists.
बजाय they all lived side by side in peace.
वहीँ were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies, और the दो chief armed rebellions ( in वर्जिनिया in 1676 और in New York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures.
Wars between the फ्रेंच and the British—the French and Indian Wars और पिता Rale 's War —were recurrent, and involved French-support लिये Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers.
By 1760 France was defeated and the British seized its colonies.
The four distinct regions were : New England, the Middle colonies, the Chesapeake खाड़ी Colonies ( अपर दक्षिण ) and the Lower South.
Some historians add a fifth प्रदेश, the Frontier, which was never separately organized.
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the बहुमत of the Native Americans living in the eastern United States था been decimated by new diseases, introduced to them दशकों पहले by explorers and sailors.
देखिए timeline of औपनिवेशिक America for list of historical events.
Gloria Laura वेंडरबिल्ट ( born February 20, 1924 ) is an American artist, लेखक, actress, heiress, and socialite most noted as an जल्दी developer of पंक्तियां blue jeans.
She is a member of the prominent Vanderbilt परिवार of New York and the mother of CNN 's Anderson Cooper.
Greece ( Romanization of Greek| ), officially the Hellenic Republic ( ' ), is a country in Southeast Europe.
According to the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, Greece 's population is around 11 million.
एथेंस is the nation 's capital and largest नगर, इसके urban area also सहित Piraeus.
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa, और has जमीन borders साथ Albania, the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north, and Turkey to the northeast.
the Aegean Sea lies to the east of mainland Greece, the Ionian Sea to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the दक्षिण.
Greece has the 11th longest तटरेखा in the world at in length, featuring a vast number of islands ( लगभग 1,400, of which 227 हैं inhabited ), including क्रेट, the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, and the आयोनियन Islands among others.
Eighty percent of Greece consists of mountains, of which Mount Olympus is the highest at.
Modern Greece traces its roots to the सभ्यता of प्राचीन Greece, generally considered the cradle of Western सभ्यता.
As such, it is the birthplace of democracy, Western philosophy, the Olympic खेल, Western literature and historiography, political science, major scientific and mathematical principles, and Western drama, including both tragedy and comedy.
This legacy is partly reflected in the seventeen युनेस्को World Heritage Sites located in Greece, ranking it 7th in Europe और 13th in the world.
The आधुनिक Greek राज्य was established in 1830, following the Greek War of स्वतंत्रता.
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations, has been a member of what is now the European संघ since 1981 ( and the eurozone चूंकि 2001 ), और has महरूम a member of NATO since 1952.
यूनानियों is a developed country with an advanced, high-income economy and very ऊँची standards of living, including the world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010.
यूनानियों 's economy is also the largest in the Balkans, where Greece is an important क्षेत्रीय investor.
A prime meridian is a meridian, i.e. a लकीर of longitude, at which longitude is defined to be 0°.
a prime meridian and its विपरीत in a 360°-system, the 180th मध्याह्न ( at 180° longitude ), रूप a ग्रेट circle.
इस great circle divides the sphere, e.g. the धरती, into दो hemispheres.
If एक uses directions of East and वेस्ट from a defined prime मध्याह्न, then they can be called Eastern Hemisphere और पश्चिमी Hemisphere.
gerardus Mercator in उसके Atlas cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a prime meridian somewhere close to 25°w, passing बस to the वेस्ट of Santa Maria द्वीप in the Atlantic.
उसके 180th meridian runs along the Strait of Anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary, unlike an equator, which is determined by the axis of rotation—and various प्रथाओं have been used or advocated in different regions and throughout history.
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born Minka Dumont Dufay ; June 24, 1980 ) is an American actress.
She is perhaps best known for her भूमिकाएँ in चार्ली 's Angels, Friday Night लाइट्स, और The रूममेट.
R.O.B. ( Robotic ऑपरेटिंग Buddy ), released in जापानी as the, is an accessory for the Nintendo Entertainment System ( NES ).
It was released in July 1985 in जापानी और later that year in उत्तर America.
It had a short product lifespan, with support for only two games जिससे comprised the `` Robot Series '' ; gyromite and Stack-Up.
R.O.B. थी released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo entertainment System as something novel in order to alleviate retail fears following the video game crash of 1983.
R.O.B. थी available in the डीलक्स नियत, a configuration for the console that included, among other बाते, R.O.B. and Gyromite.
stack-up was purchased separately and included its own physical game pieces.
the Walking Liberty half dollar थी a चांदी 50-cent piece or half डालर coin issued by the United States मिंट from 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. Weinman.
in 1915, the new Mint Director, रॉबर्ट W. Woolley, आए to believe that he थी not तभी अनुमत but जरूरी by law to बदलें coin designs that था महरूम in उपयोग for 25 years.
He therefore began the process of replacing the नाई coinage : dimes, quarters and half dollars, सब bearing समान डिजाइन by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber, और first struck in 1892.
Woolley had the Commission of ठीक Arts conduct a competition, as a result of जिससे Weinman was selected to design the dime and हाफ dollar.
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun for the half dollar proved difficult to perfect, और राजकोष सचिव William G. McAdoo, whose विभाग included the Mint, considered having नाई create his अपना डिज़ाइन.
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's design into production, although it never struck very well, which may have been a factor in its replacement by the फ्रैंकलिन हाफ dollar beginning in 1948.
Nevertheless, art historian Cornelius vermeule considered the piece to be among the most beautiful US coins.
चूंकि 1986, a modification of Weinman 's obverse design रै been used लिये the American Silver Eagle.
The Toyota 4runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle ( एसयूवी ) produced by the जापानी manufacturer Toyota and बेची throughout the संसार from 1984 to present.
In Japan it was known as the Toyota Hilux Surf.
The original 4Runner was a compact SUV और little more than a Toyota पिकअप ट्रक with a fiberglass shell over the bed, but the model has चूंकि undergone significant independent विकास into a cross between a compact and a mid-size एसयूवी.
All 4runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara plant in tahara, Aichi, Japan, or at hino Motors ' hamura, Japan plant, and in Brazil.
इसके mid-size crossover SUV बंटवारा is the Toyota Highlander.
This आलेख deals with medicine as practiced by trained professionals from ancient times to the present.
The ancient उन्होंने had a system of medicine that was very उन्नत for its समय and influenced बाद medical traditions.
The उन्होंने and Babylonians both introduced the अवधारणाओं of diagnosis, prognosis, and medical examination.
the Greeks went भी further, and advanced as well medical ethics.
The hippocratic Oath, still taken by डॉक्टर today, was written in Greece in the 5th century BCE.
In the medieval era, surgical practices inherited from the ancient मास्टर्स were improved and तब systematized in Rogerius 's The Practice of Surgery.
Universities began systematic training of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy.
During the Renaissance, understanding of anatomy improved, and the microscope was invented.
The germ theory of disease in the 19th century led to cures for many infectious diseases.
सैन्य डॉक्टर advanced the methods of trauma treatment and सर्जरी.
Public स्वास्थ्य measures यहूद विकसित especially in the 19th century as the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary measures.
उन्नत research centers opened in the जल्दी 20th century, often कनेक्ट with major hospitals.
The mid-20th century थी characterized by नई biological treatments, such as antibiotics.
These advancements, along with developments in chemistry, genetics, और lab technology ( such as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine.
Medicine थी heavily professionalized in the 20th सदी, और नई careers opened to women as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ).
The 21st century is characterized by very advanced research involving numerous fields of science.
The Hippocratic Corpus, is a संग्रहण of early medical works from ancient Greece strongly संबद्ध with the प्राचीन यूनानी physician Hippocrates and his teachings.
Potassium is a chemical तत्व with symbol K ( from Neo-Latin kalium ) and atomic number 19.
Elemental पोटैशियम is a soft silvery-white क्षारीय metal that oxidizes rapidly in air और is very प्रतिक्रिया with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.
Because potassium और सोडियम are chemically very similar, their लवण were not at first differentiated.
The existence of अनेक elements in उनके लवण was suspected from 1702, and this was proven in 1807 when potassium and sodium were individually isolated from different salts by electrolysis.
पोटैशियम in प्रकृति occurs only in ionic salts.
As such, it is found dissolved in seawater ( which is 0.04 % पोटैशियम by weight ), and is part of अनेक minerals.
Most industrial chemical applications of पोटैशियम employ the relatively high solubility in water of potassium compounds, such as potassium soaps.
पोटैशियम metal रै only a few special applications, being replaced in सबसे रासायनिक reactions with सोडियम मेटल.
Potassium ions हैं necessary लिये the function of सब living cells.
Potassium आयन diffusion is a key mechanism in nerve हस्तांतरण, and potassium depletion in animals, including humans, results in विभिन्न हृदय डिस्फंक्शन.
Potassium accumulates in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं, and thus fresh fruits and vegetables are a good dietary source of it.
Conversely, सबसे plants मगर specialist halophytes are intolerant of salt, and sodium is present in उन्हें only in low concentration.
इस resulted in potassium first being isolated इससे potash, the राख of पौधे, giving the element its name.
For the same reason, भारी क्रॉप उत्पादन rapidly depletes soils of potassium, and agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of global potassium chemical production.
The Singapore dollar or डालर ( sign : $ ; code : SGD ) is the official करेंसी of Singapore.
It is normally abbreviated with the डालर चिह्न $, or alternatively S $ to distinguish it इससे other dollar -denominated currencies.
It is divided into 100 cents.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board स्टिल maintain the historic exchangeability of their two currencies, the Singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar, क्रमशः.
The dollar is स्वीकृत as `` customary tender '' in Brunei according to the Currency Interchangeability Agreement.
Likewise, the Brunei dollar is customarily accepted in Singapore
James Samuel Coleman ( may 12, 1926 – March 25, 1995 ) थी an अमरीकी समाजशास्त्री, theorist and empirical researcher, based chiefly at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Chicago.
He was elected अध्यक्ष of the American Sociological Association.
Coleman studied the sociology of education, public policy, and was एक of the earliest उपयोक्ता of the term `` social पूंजी ``.
His मूलाधार of Social Theory influenced sociological सिद्धान्त.
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` कोलमैन रपट '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity, 1966 ) were two of the most heavily cited books in शैक्षणिक sociology.
the landmark Coleman Report helped रूपांतरण educational theory, reshape national education policies, and influenced पब्लिक and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Superman ( from DC कॉमिक्स ) was the first superhero created, art by Jim ली.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super hero ) is a type of stock character possessing `` असाधारण or superhuman powers '' and dedicated to protecting the पब्लिक.
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938, stories of superheroes—ranging इससे brief episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into अन्य media.
The word itself तिथियाँ to at least 1917.
A female superhero is sometimes called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or super heroine ).
`` सुपर HEROES '' is a trademark co-owned by dc Comics and Marvel Comics.
by most definitions, characters do not strictly require actual superhuman powers to be deemed superheroes, although terms such as costumed crime fighters or masked vigilantes हैं sometimes used to refer to those such as Batman and Green तीर without such powers जो share अन्य common superhero traits.
ऐसे characters were generally referred to as `` mystery मेन '' in the so-called Golden Age of Comic Books to distinguish उन्हें इससे characters साथ super-powers.
Normally, superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day अपराधों जबकि भी combating threats against humanity by supervillains, उनके criminal counterparts.
Often, one of these supervillains will be the superhero 's archenemy.
As well, कुछ longrunning superheroes, such as Superman, Batman, Spider-Man and आयरन Man each रै a rogues gallery of enemies.
As खूब, superheroes sometimes will combat such irregular threats as एलियंस, magical/ fantasy entities, American war enemies such as nazism or communism, and godlike or demonic creatures.
The following is a historical list of actors and primary character roles which appear on the अमरीकी soap opera One Life to Live.
The shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim रॉबिन्स and मॉर्गन Freeman.
Adapted from the स्टीफन किंग novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who spends nearly two decades in shawshank State Prison for the हत्या of his wife and her lover despite उसके claims of innocence.
During his समय at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, ellis boyd `` रेड '' Redding, and finds himself protected by the guards after the वार्डन begins using him in his धन laundering operation.
Despite a lukewarm बक्सा office reception that barely recouped its budget, the film received अनुकूल reviews from critics, multiple award nominations, and has since enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.
It was included in the American Film Institute 's 100 Years... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition.
IT management is the discipline whereby सब of the technology resources of a firm हैं managed in accordance साथ इसके needs और priorities.
These संसाधन may include ठोस investments like कंप्यूटर hardware, तन्त्र, data, networks और आंकड़ा केन्द्र सुविधाएं, as खूब as the staffs who हैं hired to maintain them.
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of the basic management कृत्यों, like budgeting, staffing, and आयोजन और controlling, along with other aspects that are अद्वितीय to technology, like change management, software design, network planning, tech support etc.
The Penitentiary of New Mexico थाना Riot, जिससे took place on February 2 and 3, 1980, in the state 's maximum security prison south of सांता Fe, was one of the most violent prison riots in the history of the American correctional system : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates यहूद treated for injuries.
None of the 12 officers taken hostage were killed, but seven were treated for चोटों caused by beatings and rapes.
This was the third प्रमुख riot at the nm State penitentiary, the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15 जून 1953.
Author Roger Morris suggests the death toll may have been उच्चतर, as a number of bodies were incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem.
`` Red Cardinal '' redirects यहाँ.
लिये the plant Erythrina herbacea, see मूँगा Bean.
The Northern कार्डिनल ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal.
It can be found in southern Canada, through the eastern संयुक्त States from Maine to टेक्सास and south through Mexico.
It is found in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, and swamps.
The Northern Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird साथ a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ).
It रै a distinctive crest on the head and a मुखौटा on the फेस which is ब्लैक in the male and धूसर in the female.
The male is a हर्षोल्लास रेड, while the मादा is a dull red-brown shade.
The उत्तरी Cardinal is mainly granivorous, but also फ़ीड्स on insects and fruit.
The male behaves territorially, marking out उसके territory with song.
During courtship, the male फ़ीड्स seed to the female beak-to-beak.
a clutch of three to four eggs is laid, और two to चार clutches are उत्पादित each साल.
It was once prized as a पालतु, but its sale as cage birds is now banned in the संयुक्त States by the Migratory Bird सन्धि अधिनियम of 1918.
Surface runoff, भी called nonpoint source pollution, from a फार्म field in आयोवा during a rain storm.
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and other potential प्रदूषक run off unprotected farm fields when heavy rains occur.
Topsoil is the अपर, outermost layer of soil, प्रायः the शीर्ष to.
It has the उच्चतम concentration of organic matter and microorganisms और is where most of the Earth 's biological मृदा activity occurs.
Musical cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' नियत in Schoenberg 's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
Note that the notes do not come in spelling order but हैं all adjacent ( not separated by other notes ).
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, Op. 19 ( or Six Little Piano Pieces ) is a set of pieces for सोलो piano written by the Austrian composer अर्नाल्ड schoenberg, प्रकाशित in 1913.
McAfee, Inc. ( ) is an American global computer security software company headquartered in Santa Clara, California, and the world 's largest dedicated सुरक्षा technology company.
as of February 28, 2011, McAfee is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of इंटेल.
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus industry are Avira, bitdefender, bullguard, F-Secure, Frisk, Kaspersky, Symantec, और Trend Micro to name a few.
Saint Rita of Cascia ( born Margherita Lotti 1381 - May 22, 1457 ) थी an इतालवी Augustinian nun, widow and saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church.
Rita was शादीशुदा at an early आयु.
the विवाह lasted for 18 years, during जिससे वो is remembered for her Christian values as a मॉडल wife and mother who made efforts to convert her husband from his abusive behavior.
Upon the murder of her husband by another feuding family, she sought to dissuade उसके sons from revenge.
She subsequently joined an Augustinian जातियाँ of religious sisters, where she was ज्ञात for practicing mortification of the flesh, along with the apparent efficacy of her prayers.
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession, and is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on उसके forehead, which the Roman Catholic Church claims to have been a partial stigmata.
The Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर, under the pontificate of Pope leo XIII officially canonized रीता on May 24, 1900, while her feast day is celebrated every May 22.
In many pious कैथोलिक countries, Rita is ज्ञात to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning women.
North अमेरिका is a continent wholly भीतर the Northern गोलार्ध and almost wholly भीतर the पश्चिमी Hemisphere.
It is also considered a northern subcontinent of the americas.
It is bordered to the north by the आर्कटिक Ocean, to the ईस्ट by the Atlantic Ocean, to the वेस्ट and दक्षिण by the Pacific Ocean, and to the southeast by South अमेरिका and the Caribbean Sea.
उत्तर America covers an क्षेत्रफल of about 24,709,000 वर्गाकार kilometers ( 9,540,000 वर्गाकार मील ), परिचय 4.8 % of the ग्रह 's सतह or about 16.5 % of its land area.
As of जुलाई 2008, its population was estimated at nearly 529 million people across 23 independent states, representing about 7.5 % of the human population.
North अमेरिका is the third-largest continent in area, following Asia और Africa, and the fourth in population after एशिया, अफ़्रीकी, और Europe.
The first people to live in North America were Paleoindians जो began to arrive during the पिछला glacial period by crossing the Bering land bridge.
They differentiated into a number of diverse cultures and communities across the continent.
the largest and most उन्नत Pre-Columbian civilizations in North America were the aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in सेंट्रल अमेरिका.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th और 17th centuries, wiping out large numbers of the native populations और beginning an era of European दबदबा.
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28, 1985 ), better known by his stage name J. Cole, is an American hip-hop recording artist and record producer from fayetteville, North Carolina.
In 2009, he became the first artist to चिह्न to Jay-Z 's Roc स्वदेश label.
His long-awaited debut album, entitled Cole World : The Sideline Story, थी released on सितंबर 27, 2011.
The एल्बम debuted at number one on the us Billboard 200, शीर्ष R & B Albums and Top Rap Albums chart, selling more than 218,000 in its first सप्ताह.
He प्राप्त a nomination for बेहतरीन New कलाकार at the 54th Grammy Awards.
The two main characters of the series, Ratchet ( right ) and Clank ( left ).
Ratchet & clank is a series of platform video games.
The मताधिकार was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by सोनी Computer Entertainment लिये many different PlayStation consoles, such as PlayStation 2 and प्लेस्टेशन 3 with the exclusion of आकार Matters और Secret Agent Clank, which were developed by High Impact Games लिये the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल.
प्रत्येक game in the series has been released लिये every console, as the IP is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment.
An एनिमेटेड feature film adaptation produced by Rainmaker Entertainment and Blockade Entertainment is scheduled for a theatrical release sometime in 2015.
The games लो place in a विज्ञान fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character known as a Lombax, who is a mechanic ) और Clank ( a diminutive, sentient robot ) as they travel through the universe, छायांकन it इससे दुष्ट शक्तियां on a regular basis.
the series is विख्यात for the inclusion of अनेक exotic and unique, over the top weapons और devices, a अवधारणा that insomniac खेल also expanded into their other games.
A will or testament is a विधिक declaration by जिससे a person, the testator, names one or more persons to manage his/her estate and provides लिये the transfer of his property at death.
For the devolution of property not disposed of by will, see inheritance and intestacy.
In the strictest sense, a `` will '' has historically महरूम limited to real property while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of निजी property ( thus giving rise to the लोकप्रिय title of the document as `` Last Will and Testament '' ), हालांकि this distinction is seldom observed today.
a will may also create a testamentary trust that is effective only after the death of the testator.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain सुविधाएँ 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 घंटों a day.
Solar energy, रौशन light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar हीटिंग, सौर photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis, जिससे can make considerable contributions to solving some of the सबसे urgent energy समस्याएं the संसार now faces.
सौर technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert और वितरित सौर उर्जा.
Active solar तकनीकों include the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a भवन to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term लाभ.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and ज़्यादातर import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil ईंधन prices lower than otherwise.
These advantages are global.
Hence the अतिरिक्त लागत of the incentives लिये early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely साझा ''.
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ), ज्ञात to Roman Catholics as Saint Thomas More since 1935, थी an English lawyer, सोशल पारस, author, statesman, and विख्यात Renaissance humanist.
He was an important councillor to Henry viii of England and was रब Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532.
he was canonized by पोप Pius XI in 1935 as one of the early martyrs of the schism कि separated the Church of England from Rome in the 16th century.
In 2000, Pope John Paul II घोषित him patron of Catholic statesmen and politicians.
More was an opponent of the प्रोटोस्टेंट Reformation, in particular of Martin Luther and विलियम Tyndale.
however, since 1980, he is also commemorated by the गिरिजाघर of England as a reformation martyr.
More coined the word `` utopia `` – a name he gave to the ideal and imaginary island nation, the राजनैतिक system of which he described in Utopia, published in 1516.
He opposed the किंग 's separation इससे the Roman Catholic गिरिजाघर and refused to accept him as परम् सिर of the Church of England, a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534.
He was imprisoned in 1534 लिये उसके refusal to take the oath required by the पहला Succession Act, because the act disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s विवाह to कैथरीन of Aragon.
In 1535, he was आजमाया for treason, convicted on perjured testimony, और beheaded.
अधिक भी helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to mean `` desperately trying even useless things '', in उसके संवाद of Comfort Against Tribulation.
Intellectuals and statesmen across Europe were stunned by More 's execution.
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul was more pure than कोई snow, whose genius was such that England never had and never again will have its like ''.
There was a अधिक controversial पक्ष to More 's life, because he advocated the persecution and निष्पादन of Protestants who refused to recant their faith.
However, the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive this in light of the टाइम्स he जिया in and उसके martyrdom in the Roman कैथोलिक cause.
दो centuries बाद Jonathan Swift said More was `` the person of the महानतम virtue this kingdom ever produced '', a भावना with which Samuel जॉनसन सहमत.
Historian Hugh trevor-roper said in 1977 that More was `` the first ग्रेट Englishman whom we feel कि we know, the सबसे saintly of humanists, the सबसे human of saints, the universal man of our cool northern renaissance. ''
Captain Nemo, also known as Prince Dakkar, is a fictional character invented by the French science fiction लेखक Jules Verne.
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels, बीस Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious Island ( 1874 ), and makes a कैमियो appearance in Verne 's play Journey Through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
nemo, one of the most famous antiheroes in fiction, is a mysterious figure.
The son of an Indian Raja, he is a scientific genius who roams the गहराइयों of the समुद्र in his submarine, the Nautilus, जिससे was built on a deserted द्वीप.
Nemo कोशिशें to project a stern, controlled confidence, but he is driven by a thirst for vengeance and a hatred of imperialism ( particularly the British Empire ).
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of उसके crew members and even by the deaths of enemy sailors.
Nemo has appeared in various adaptations of Verne 's novels, including films, जहाँ he has been portrayed by a number of different actors.
He has furthermore been adopted by अन्य authors for समावेश in their novels, most notably in Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip José किसान 's The Other log of Phileas Fogg.
Listed below are the प्रमुख League Baseball टीमों with the best season won-lost records in history, as determined by जीतना percentage (.700 or better ), minimum 120 games played.
Acoustic coupler modem
A मॉडेम ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device that modulates an analog carrier सिग्नल to encode digital information, and also demodulates ऐसे a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information.
The लक्ष्य is to produce a signal that can be transmitted easily and decoded to reproduce the original digital आंकड़ा.
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog signals, from light emitting diodes to radio.
The most familiar example is a voice band modem that turns the digital आंकड़ा of a personal कंप्यूटर into modulated electrical signals in the voice frequency range of a telephone चैनल.
These signals can be transmitted over telephone lines and demodulated by another modem at the receiver पक्ष to recover the digital data.
modems are generally classified by the amount of data वे can send in a दिए ईकाई of time, usually expressed in bits per second ( bit/s, or bps ), or bytes per दूसरी ( b/s ).
Modems can alternatively be classified by their symbol rate, measured in baud.
The baud unit denotes symbols प्रति दूसरी, or the number of times per second the मॉडेम भेजना a new signal.
For example, the ITU V.21 standard used audio frequency shift keying with two संभावित frequencies corresponding to two पृथक प्रतीकों ( or one bit per symbol ), to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud.
By contrast, the असली ITU V.22 standard, which was समर्थ to transmit and receive four पृथक प्रतीकों ( two bits per symbol ), handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per दूसरी ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying.
The Declaration of Independence is a बयान adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, जिससे announced कि the thirteen American colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a भाग of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a new nation—the United States of America.
John Adams was a leader in pushing for independence, which was unanimously approved on July 2.
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration, to be तैयार जब congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select थामस Jefferson to लिखें the original ड्राफ्ट of the document, which congress होता edit to produce the final संस्करण.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national जन्मदिवस, the Independence Day is celebrated on जुलाई 4, although Adams wanted July 2.
बाद ratifying the text on July 4, Congress issued the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता in several forms.
It was initially प्रकाशित as the printed डनलप broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the घोषणा, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता, is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the घोषणा was स्वीकृत on July 4, the date of its signing was अगस्त 2.
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence पाण्डुलिपि was lost while all other नक़ल have been derived from this original दस्तावेज़.
The sources और interpretation of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
the घोषणा justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances विरूद्ध किंग George III, और by asserting certain natural and legal अधिकारों, सहित a सही of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the text of the घोषणा was initially ignored after the अमरीकी Revolution.
Since तब, it has come to be considered a प्रमुख statement on human अधिकारों, particularly its दूसरी sentence:
We hold ये सच्चाई to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, कि among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been पुकारा `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '', containing `` the most potent और consequential words in American history. ''
The passage आए to represent a moral standard to which the United States चाहिए नीयत.
This view थी notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his राजनैतिक philosophy, और argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the संयुक्त States Constitution चाहिए be interpreted.
It has inspired work लिये the rights of marginalized people throughout the संसार.
The Economy of ग्रीनलैंड can be characterized as छोटी, मिश्रित and vulnerable.
The present economy consists of a बिग public sector और comprehensive विदेशी trade, जिससे has resulted in an economy with periods of strong growth, considerable inflation, unemployment problems और extreme dependence on capital inflow from Denmark और use of outside, mainly Danish, skilled labor.
GDP per capita is similar to the average यूरोपीय economies लकिन the economy is critically dependent upon substantial support from the डैनिश government, which supplies about half the revenues of the घर rule government who in turn employ परिचय 8,000 Greenlanders out of a मजदूर force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ).
बेरोजगारी nonetheless remains high, साथ the rest of the economy dependent upon demand for exports of shrimp और fish.
Hydrogen is a chemical element with symbol H and atomic क्रमांक 1.
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ), hydrogen is the lightest तत्व and its monatomic रूप ( H1 ) is the most abundant रासायनिक substance, constituting roughly 75 % of the ब्रह्मांड 's baryonic mass.
Non- remnant सितारों are mainly composed of hydrogen in its प्लाज्मा state.
at standard तापमान and pressure, hydrogen is a colorless, गंधहीन, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular सूत्र H2.
Most of the हाइड्रोजन on Earth is in molecules such as जल and organic compounds because hydrogen readily फ़ॉर्म covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements.
Hydrogen plays a particularly important role in acid-base chemistry with अनेक प्रतिक्रियाएँ exchanging protons between soluble अणुओं.
In ionic compounds, it can take a negative charge ( an anion known as a हाइड्राइड and written as h− ), or as a positively charged species H+.
the latter cation is लिखा as though composed of a bare proton, but in reality, हाइड्रोजन cations in ionic यौगिकों always occur as more जटिल species.
The most आम isotope of hydrogen is protium ( नाम rarely used, symbol 1H ) with a single proton and no neutrons.
As the simplest अणु ज्ञात, the hydrogen atom रै been of theoretical use.
For example, as the only न्यूट्रल atom with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger equation, the study of the energetics and bonding of the hydrogen atom played a key role in the development of क्वांटम mechanics.
Hydrogen gas थी first artificially produced in the जल्दी 16th सदी, via the mixing of metals with acids.
In 1766–81, Henry Cavendish थी the first to recognize कि हाइड्रोजन gas was a अलहदा substance, और that it produces water when burned, a property which later gave it इसके name : in Greek, हाइड्रोजन means `` water-former ''.
Industrial production is mainly from the steam reforming of प्राकृतिक gas, and less often from अधिक energy-intensive hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water.
सबसे hydrogen is employed निकट its production site, with the two largest uses होने fossil fuel प्रसंस्करण ( e.g., hydrocracking ) और ammonia production, mostly for the fertilizer market.
Hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle अनेक metals, complicating the design of pipelines और storage tanks.
अजेय is a 2010 American action thriller film निर्देशित by Tony Scott, written by Mark bomback, and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine.
The फिल्मी, loosely आधारित on the real-life CSX 8888 घटना, tells the story of a runaway freight train, और the two men ( Washington and Pine ) जो manage to stop it.
It was स्कॉट 's final feature फिल्मी before his death in 2012.
The film थी released in the United States and Canada on नवम्बर 12, 2010, और in the United Kingdom on November 24, 2010.
It received mostly favorable reviews from फिल्मी critics ; it garnered a `` Certified Fresh '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated समीक्षाएँ and a rating of `` generally favorable reviews '' at metacritic.
The film was nominated लिये an Academy Award for Best ध्वनि संपादन at the 83rd Academy Awards, but lost to inception.
In photography, bracketing is the सामान्य technique of taking अनेक shots of the same subject using अलग camera settings.
Bracketing is useful और often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image with a single shot, especially when a small variation in exposure parameters रै a comparatively large effect on the resulting image.
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a setting on the camera to लो several bracketed shots ( in कंट्रास्ट to the photographer altering the settings by hand between each shot ).
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple shots, it is typically, but not always, used for static subjects.
insulated glazing ( IG ), अधिक commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane, and increasingly triple glazing/pane ) are double or triple glass window panes अलग by an air or other gas filled space to reduce ऊष्मा transfer across a part of the building envelope.
Insulated Glass इकाई हैं manufactured with glass in range of thickness from 3 mm to 10 mm or अधिक in special applications.
Laminated or tempered glass may also be used as part of the construction.
Most units are manufactured with the same thickness of glass used on both panes but खास applications such as ध्वनिक क्षीणन or सुरक्षा may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the वही unit.
A sectioned आरेख of a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( IGU ), indicating the numbering convention used in this article.
Surface # 1 is facing outside, Surface # 2 is the inside surface of the exterior फलक, सतह # 3 is the outside surface of the interior फलक, and Surface # 4 is the inside surface of interior pane.
the window frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals हैं shown in red ( # 7 ), the internal खुलासा is on the right hand side ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear प्रभाव on the sealed unit ( a major कारण of premature failure ), manufacturers use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit.
For उदाहरण, a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm pane on the exterior और a 3 mm pane on the आंतरिक.
ये विसंगतियाँ are allowed for architectural and cost कारण.
Other combinations can be specified and produced but the manufacturer may reserve the right to सीमा the term of the warranty or refuse to warranty the unit altogether.
For ease of description the surfaces of a दोगुना paned ईकाई are नामित according to the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing outside ), Surface # 2 ( inside of outside pane ), Surface # 3 ( बाहर of inside फलक ) and Surface # 4 ( inside surface of inside pane ).
Applying the corresponding nomenclature for triple paned units results in surfaces # 1 through # 6.
the performance of insulating glazing can be modified through the use of the following:
A typical installation of insulated glazing windows with uPVC window frames.
Selenium is a रासायनिक element with symbol Se और atomic क्रमांक 34.
It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between those of its periodic table column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium.
It rarely occurs in its elemental राज्य in nature, or as pure ore compounds.
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene अर्थ `` Moon '' ) थी discovered in 1817 by Jöns Jacob Berzelius, who noted the समानता of the new element to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ).
Selenium is found impurely in मेटल sulfide ores, where it partially replaces the sulfur.
Commercially, selenium is produced as a byproduct in the refining of these ores, most often दौरान copper production.
खनिज that हैं pure selenide or selenate compounds are known, but हैं rare.
The chief commercial uses for selenium today are in glassmaking and in pigments.
Selenium is a semiconductor and is प्रयुक्त in photocells.
उपयोग in electronics, once important, have been ज़्यादातर supplanted by silicon semiconductor devices.
Selenium continues to be used in a few प्रकार of dc power surge protectors and one type of fluorescent quantum dot.
Selenium salts are toxic in विशाल amounts, but trace amounts are necessary for cellular function in many organisms, including all animals.
सेलेनियम is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase ( which indirectly reduce certain oxidized अणुओं in animals and कुछ plants ).
It is भी found in three deiodinase एंजाइमों, जिससे convert एक thyroid hormone to another.
Selenium requirements in plants differ by species, with some plants requiring relatively large amounts, and others apparently requiring none.
The United States presidential चुनाव of 2008 was the 56th quadrennial presidential election.
It was held on मंगलवार, November 4, 2008.
Democrat बराक ओबामा, then the junior Senator from Illinois, defeated Republican John McCain, the senior Senator from Arizona.
As the campaign progressed, the युद्ध in Iraq and outgoing Republican President George W. बुश had become increasingly unpopular, and the major-party candidates ran on a मंच of change and reform.
Domestic policy and the अर्थव्यवस्था eventually emerged as the main विषयवस्तु in the last few months of the election अभियान after the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s.
Obama would go on to win a निर्णायक victory over McCain in both the electoral और popular vote.
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history, and won the popular and electoral vote by the largest हाशिया in 12 years, as well as the largest percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century.
This was the first U.S. presidential election in which an अफ़्रीकी American was निर्वाचित, having भी been the first in which an African American won the nomination of either प्रमुख party.
This election was also notable लिये being the first समय in U.S. history that both major पार्टी candidates were sitting U.S. Senators, only the third time ( बाद 1920 and 1960 ) that any sitting U.S. सीनेटर was elected president, and only the second time कि the winning President and Vice President ( ओबामा and Biden ) were दोनो sitting U.S. Senators.
This was also the पहला election चूंकि 1952 in जिससे neither of the major पार्टियों ' नामांकित थी the incumbent President or वाइस अध्यक्ष.
The Sovereign Prince or Princess of Monaco is the reigning monarch and सिर of राज्य of the principality of Monaco.
All princes or princesses have officially taken the name of the House of Grimaldi, लकिन have belonged to various other houses ( Goyon de Matignon, Polignac ) in male line.
The reigning प्रिंस is Albert II.
Visualization of fragmentation and then of defragmentation
in the maintenance of file systems, defragmentation is a process that reduces the amount of fragmentation.
It does this by physically organizing the contents of the mass storage device used to स्टोर files into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ).
It also attempts to create larger regions of free स्पेस using compaction to impede the return of fragmentation.
Some defragmentation उपयोगिताएँ कोशिश to रखना smaller files within a single directory together, as they are प्रायः accessed in अनुक्रम.
Defragmentation is advantageous and relevant to file systems on electromechanical disk drives.
The movement of the hard ड्राइव 's read/write heads over different areas of the disk when accessing fragmented फाइलें is slower, compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to तलाश other fragments.
A service-level agreement ( sla ) is a भाग of a service contract where a service is formally defined.
in अभ्यास, the पद SLA is sometimes used to refer to the contracted delivery time ( of the service or प्रदर्शन ).
As an example, internet service providers will commonly शामिल service level agreements भीतर the terms of their contracts साथ customers to define the स्तर ( s ) of service being sold in मैदान language terms.
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in शर्तें of mean time between failures ( MTBF ), औसत time to repair or mean time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; various data rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details.
Union Station is a पूर्व shopping mall in संघ City, Georgia, in southwest metro अटलांटा adjacent to अंतरराज्यीय 85.
After new ownership and renovations in 2006, the name was changed इससे Shannon southpark Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall.
A previous renovation थी done in the late 1990s.
the mall रै been closed since November 2010.
इस map shows the contiguous United States और, in insets at the lower left, the two राज्य that are not contiguous.
The contiguous संयुक्त राज्य are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the महाद्वीप of North America that are south of Canada and उत्तर of Mexico, प्लस the District of Columbia.
The term excludes the states of Alaska and Hawaii, and सब off-shore u.S. territories and possessions, such as Puerto Rico.
Together, the 48 contiguous states and D.C. occupy a combined area of, which is 1.58 % of the total surface क्षेत्रफल of the धरती.
Of इस, is land, composing 83.65 % of U.S. land क्षेत्रफल.
Officially, is water area, composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water area.
The 2010 census population थी 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the nation 's population, and a घनत्व of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the स्वदेश as a whole.
`` Why '' is the title of a song recorded by American country band Rascal Flatts.
It is the third single from their sixth स्टुडियो album, Unstoppable.
it was released to रेडियो stations on September 29, 2009 and debuted at # 44 on the U.S. Billboard us Billboard hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 10, 2009.
It was written by Rob Mathes and Allen Shamblin.
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness, medical need and efficiency of health परवाह सेवाएं procedures and facilities according to established मापदण्ड or guidelines and under the provisions of an applicable health benefits योजना.
Typically it includes नई activities or निर्णय based upon the analysis of a मामला.
Utilization management describes proactive प्रक्रियाओं, including निर्वहन planning, concurrent नियोजन, pre-certification and clinical case appeals.
It also कवर proactive processes, such as concurrent clinical reviews और peer reviews, as well as appeals introduced by the provider, payer or patient.
As pre-certification and संयुक्त review of cases grew, utilization management spun out of utilization पुनर्विलोकन.
While नहीं synonymous, स्वास्थ्य care professionals tend to use the terms as interchangeable.
The difference is utilization management is and intends to मैनेज health care cases efficiently and cost effectively before and दौरान health care administration.
Utilization review is more considering whether health care was appropriately applied after it was administered.
वहीँ हैं four basic techniques in utilization management:
Demand Management
Utilization Review
मामला Management
Disease Management
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age अनोखा by S. E. Hinton, first प्रकाशित in 1967 by viking दबायें.
Hinton was 15 when she started writing the अनोखा, but किया most of the work जब she was sixteen and a जूनियर in high school.
hinton was 18 जब the book थी published.
The book follows two rival groups, the Greasers and the socs ( सुनाया by the author as, short for Socials ), who are divided by their socioeconomic status.
the किताब takes place in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in 1965, but it is never stated in the book.
A film adaptation was produced in 1983, and a little-known short-lived television series appeared in 1990, picking up where the movie left off.
the United States House of Representatives is one of the two घरों of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is frequently referred to as the हाउस.
the other house is the Senate.
The संयोजन and powers of the House are established in Article One of the United States Constitution.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire देश although its बिल्स must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the शक्ति to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, and to elect the U.S. President in case there is no बहुमत in the Electoral College.
प्रत्येक u.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population लकिन is entitled to at least one representative.
The सबसे populous state, California, फिलहाल has 53 representatives.
The कुल number of voting प्रतिनिधि is fixed by law at 435.
Each representative serves लिये a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States हाउस of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the House, and is इसलिए traditionally the leader of the हाउस Democratic Caucus or the House Republican सम्मेलन, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the दक्षिण wing of the United States Capitol.
A supply chain is actually a जटिल and dynamic supply and demand network.
( cf. Wieland/Wallenburg, 2011 )
A सप्लाई chain is a प्रणाली of organizations, people, activities, information, and resources involved in moving a product or service from supplier to ग्राहक.
Supply chain activities transform natural resources, raw materials, and components into a समाप्त product that is delivered to the end customer.
In sophisticated supply chain systems, used products may re-enter the सप्लाई chain at any पाइंट where अवशेष मान is recyclable.
सप्लाई जंजीरों link मान chains.
`` जामुनी Haze '' is a song written और recorded by Jimi Hendrix in 1967, released as the second single by The Jimi Hendrix Experience in both the United Kingdom and the United States.
It बाद appeared on the अमरीकी version of the band 's 1967 album Are तुम Experienced.
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the `` archetypical psychedelic ड्रग songs of the sixties ''.
`` Purple haze 's '' guitar virtuosic techniques would be emulated by अनेक मेटल guitarists.
A बंद up picture of a rhinoceros skin.
Skin is the soft outer covering of vertebrates.
अन्य animal coverings such as the सन्धिपाद बहि have different developmental origin, structure और chemical composition.
The adjective cutaneous means `` of the skin '' ( from लैटिन cutis, skin ).
in mammals, the स्किन is the largest organ of the integumentary system made up of multiple layers of ectodermal ऊतक, and गार्ड the underlying muscles, हड्डियों, ligaments and internal organs.
Skin of a अलग nature exists in amphibians, reptiles, and पक्षियों.
सब mammals have some hair on their skin, भी marine mammals जिससे appear to be hairless.
the skin interfaces साथ the environment and is the first line of defense from external कारकों.
For example, the skin plays a कुंजी role in protecting the body against pathogens and excessive water loss.
Its other functions are insulation, temperature regulation, sensation, and the production of vitamin D folates.
Severely damaged skin may heal by forming scar tissue.
This is sometimes discoloured and depigmented.
the thickness of skin also varies from स्थान to स्थान on an organism.
in humans for उदाहरण, the skin located अंतर्गत the eyes and around the eyelids is the thinnest skin in the body at 0.5 mm thick, and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging ऐसे as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles.
The स्किन on the palms and the सोल्स of the फीट is 4 mm thick और the thickest skin in the body.
Fur is घना hair.
Primarily, fur augments the insulation the skin provides but can also serve as a secondary sexual characteristic or as camouflage.
on some animals, the skin is very मुश्किल and thick, and can be processed to बनाएँ चमड़े.
Reptiles and fish have hard protective scales on their स्किन for protection, और birds have hard feathers, सब made of tough β- keratins.
उभयचर skin is not a strong अवरोध to passage of chemicals and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces.
For example, a frog sitting in an anesthetic solution होता be sedated जल्दी, as the chemical diffuses through its skin.
Thomas Scott
The Rev. Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is principally known for his best-selling कार्य A Commentary On the Whole Bible and The Force of Truth, and as one of the संस्थापकों of the Church Missionary समाज.
Daniel Radcliffe, who portrays Harry Potter, रै महरूम the icon of the film series since the release of the first फिल्मी in 2001.
कुछ of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland have voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the Harry Potter film श्रेणी based on the किताब series by J. K. Rowling.
डेनियल Radcliffe, रुपर्ट Grint और Emma Watson have played Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the films.
When they were cast only Radcliffe had previously acted in a film.
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter, Jim broadbent, John cleese, रोबी coltrane, Warwick डेविस, Ralph Fiennes, Michael Gambon, Brendan Gleeson, Richard Griffiths, Richard Harris, John Hurt, Jason isaacs, Miriam Margolyes, Helen McCrory, Gary Oldman, एलन Rickman, Fiona Shaw, Maggie Smith, Timothy spall, Imelda Staunton, David thewlis, एम्मा थॉम्पसन, and Julie Walters, among अन्य.
Thirteen actors have appeared as the same character in all eight films of the franchise.
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in the series, are asked in jest why they have नहीं been cast.
When David येट्स थी directing the fifth film, Bill nighy, who था previously collaborated with येट्स on तीन of his टेलीविज़न projects, said that he joked साथ Yates that संभवतः अभी he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't महरूम in Harry Potter.
`` But nobody called '', Nighy added.
लकिन in 2009, येट्स cast nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in deathly Hallows.
Nighy said, `` I am no longer the तभी अंग्रेज़ी actor not to be in Harry Potter and I am very pleased. ''
Jude Law has quipped, `` Nobody 's asked me.
I was a bit too old for Harry ''.
When a reporter compared potions professor होरेस Slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the श्रेणी ' कनेक्शन to `` प्रत्येक notable British actor, '' Jim broadbent, जो plays Slughorn कहा, `` Well, not प्रत्येक actor gets invited.
i know some who are still प्रतीक्षारत. ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus, each director has had a cameo appearance in his संबंधित फिल्मी : Alfonso Cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a candle during a scene at The Three Broomsticks in Prisoner of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is heard briefly as the radio presenter in Frank ब्राइस 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical चलती portrait in Order of the Phoenix.
Producer David Heyman also makes a cameo appearance as a wizard featured within a magical moving portrait in the third फिल्मी, Prisoner of azkaban.
J. K. Rowling gave a speech during the world प्रीमियर of the final film in the series— Harry Potter and the deathly hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London, England.
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the talented actors और actresses who have appeared in all the Harry Potter movies.
Rowling भी announced that वहीँ हैं seven Harry Potter film series cast members, who she refers to as `` The Big सात '', they हैं Daniel radcliffe, Rupert grint, Emma Watson, Tom Felton, मैथ्यू Lewis, Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright.
The list below is sorted by film and character, as some characters have been portrayed by अनेक actors.
Key
( v ) indicates the actor or actress lent only his or her voice for his or उसके फिल्मी character
( y ) indicates the कर्ता or actress portrayed the role in a flashback scene or when the character was यंग.
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did नहीं appear in कोई new footage for the फिल्मी ; footage from an earlier film or films was used.
A light धूसर cell ( such as the एक in the `` दान Burbage '' row in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the अक्षर was not in the film adaptation.
a twelve-step program is a set of guiding सिद्धान्त ( accepted by members as 'spiritual सिद्धान्त, ' based on the approved literature ) outlining a course of action for recovery from, मजबूरी, or other behavioral problems.
originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a विधि of recovery from alcoholism, the Twelve कदम were पहला published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of कैसा More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939.
the विधि थी then adapted और became the न्यास of अन्य twelve-step programs.
As summarized by the American Psychological Association, the process involves the following:
admitting that एक can not control one 's addiction or मजबूरी ;
recognizing a higher power that can दे strength ;
examining पास्ट errors with the सहायता of a sponsor ( अनुभवी member ) ;
making amends लिये ये errors ;
learning to live a new life with a नई कोड of behavior ;
helping अन्य who suffer इससे the वही addictions or compulsions.
Witness impeachment, in the law of evidence of the United States, is the process of calling into question the विश्वसनीयता of an individual who is testifying in a विचारण.
The Federal Rules of Evidence contain the rules governing impeachment in federal courts.
Party नेताओ and whips of the United States House of प्रतिनिधि are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are also known as floor नेताओ.
The U.S. House of Representatives करता not officially use the पद `` Minority Leader '' although the media frequently do.
The House instead uses the terms `` रिपब्लिकन Leader '' or `` Democratic Leader '' depending on which पार्टी holds a minority of seats.
The current House Majority Leader is Republican Eric cantor, जबकि the current हाउस अल्पसंख्यक Leader is डेमोक्रेट Nancy Pelosi.
The वर्तमान House Majority Whip is Republican Kevin McCarthy, while the current हाउस Minority Whip is डेमोक्रेट Steny Hoyer.
Following the outbreak of World War I in 1914, the जर्मनी फौज opened the Western Front by first invading Luxembourg and बेल्जियम, then gaining military control of important औद्योगिक regions in France.
The tide of the अग्रिम was dramatically turned with the बैटल of the marne.
following the race to the sea, both sides dug in along a meandering line of fortified trenches, stretching from the North Sea to the Swiss frontier with France.
This line remained essentially unchanged for most of the war.
Between 1915 and 1917 there यहूद अनेक major offensives along this front.
The attacks employed विशाल artillery bombardments and massed infantry advances.
however, a combination of entrenchments, machine gun nests, barbed wire, and artillery repeatedly inflicted कठोर हताहत on the attackers and counterattacking defenders.
as a result, no significant advances were बना.
Among the most costly of ये offensives यहूद the बैटल of Verdun with a संयुक्त [ estimated ] 700,000 मुर्दे, the Battle of the Somme with more than [ an अनुमानित ] million हताहत, and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an अनुमानित ] 600,000 casualties.
In an प्रयत्न to break the deadlock, this front देखी the introduction of नई सैन्य प्रौद्योगिकी, including poison gas, aircraft and tanks.
But it was only बाद the adoption of improved tactics that some degree of mobility was restored.
The German Spring Offensive of 1918 was made possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that marked the समाप्त of the conflict on the Eastern सामने.
Using the recently-introduced घुसपैठ tactics, the जर्मनी armies advanced nearly to the west, जिससे marked the deepest advance by either side चूंकि 1914 and very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
In spite of the generally stagnant प्रकृति of this front, this theater होता prove decisive.
The inexorable अग्रिम of the Allied armies during the second half of 1918 persuaded the German commanders that defeat was inevitable, and the government was forced to मुकदमा लिये conditions of an armistice.
The terms of सलाम were agreed upon with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919.
The following is a सूची of पुनरावर्ती and नाबालिग वर्ण in the Disney Channel असली श्रेणी The Suite Life of Zack & Cody.
These characters were regularly rotated, often disappearing for long periods during the series.
The following list of characters has been sorted alphabetically, by पहला name.
Some of the वर्ण had no पिछला नाम and most were commonly referred to by their first name so this appeared to be the सबसे logical method.
In the case of Chef Paolo, who had no ज्ञात first नाम, they have been listed by title.
The First Lady of the United राज्य ( FLOTUS ) is the hostess of the White हाउस.
Because this position is traditionally filled by the wife of the President of the संयुक्त राज्य, the title is most often applied to the बीवी of a sitting president.
The current First महिला is Michelle ओबामा.
After उसके husband Barack ओबामा was re-elected on November 6, 2012, she is अनुसूचित to serve until January 20, 2017.
Septic shock is a medical condition as a परिणाम of severe संक्रमण and sepsis, though the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular साईट.
It can कारण multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) और मौत.
Its most common victims are children, immunocompromised individuals, and the elderly, as their immune प्रणालियों can not deal with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults.
Frequently, patients कष्ट from septic शॉक are cared for in intensive care units.
The mortality rate from septic shock is लगभग 25–50 %.
Kevin brereton ( born February 20, 1972 ), बेहतर known by his stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ), is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter and record producer.
His given name may also be cited as Kheaven, a spelling he later adopted.
The alias `` k-os '', spelled with a lower case `` k '', was intended to be less aggressive than the pseudonyms of other rappers whose names यहूद सब upper case, such as KRS-One.
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self, '' although in a later इंटरव्यू he said that it originally stood for `` Kevin 's Original Sound. '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres, including rap, funk, rock, and reggae.
the lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times expressing criticism of mainstream hip हॉप culture 's obsession with money, fame और glorification of violence.
A संगीतकार as खूब as a producer, k-os has written and produced nearly every part of all four of his albums.
k-os usually performs with a live band, something that is uncommon in the hip hop genre.
He sometimes plays guitar and कुंजीपटल both दौरान live performances and in the studio.
k-os received his first musical exposure with the single `` Musical Essence '', released in 1993.
बाद the release of उसके second single `` Rise Like the सूर्य '' in 1996, he withdrew इससे the industry because he was dissatisfied with उसके musical स्टाइल.
He reappeared briefly in 1999 and released his debut album Exit in 2002.
The album received positive reviews but बेची relatively few नक़ल.
He released उसके second album Joyful Rebellion in 2004, which received platinum status in कनाडा.
A third album,, was released in 2006 and also went platinum.
His fourth album, यस !
, was released in 2009.
His fifth एल्बम BLack on BLonde was released in 2013.
The आधिकारिक 2007 edition of the UCC.
Even the confidential rough drafts of the ucc were saved and published as a 10-volume set.
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ), first published in 1952, is one of a number of uniform acts that have been promulgated in संयोजन साथ efforts to harmonize the law of sales and other commercial transactions in सब 50 states within the United राज्य of America.
multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing routes साथ one or more stops at a belay station.
Each section of actual climbing between stops at the belay stations is called a pitch.
The leader ascends the pitch, placing gear and stopping to anchor themselves to the belay station.
the reason for the stops can be determined by choice, convention or necessity.
For example:
The रस्सी is too short to do the संपूर्ण route in one pitch ( necessity ).
The leader has चलाएं out of सुरक्षात्मक gear ( necessity ).
There is a convenient protectable ledge, or fixed bolts placed by previous चढना, at the location लिये a belay station ( convention ).
The नेता chooses to rest or exchange leads before the अगला खण्ड of the climb ( choice ).
The general purpose of these stops is to allow the second to ascend to the पाइंट of the lead climber while collecting the protective gear from the route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent.
At the belay station, the protective gear is एकत्रित, possibly exchanged to a नई leader, and the leader of the अगला pitch ascends the route.
A diagram showing an i Formation on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American फ़ुटबॉल, प्रत्येक टोली has eleven players on the field at one time.
the specific role that a player takes on the field is पुकारा their position.
Under the modern rules of American फ़ुटबॉल, टीमों are allowed असीमित subsititutions, that is teams may change any क्रमांक of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the टोली साथ the ball, जो is trying to score ), the defense ( the टोली trying to prevent the other टोली from स्कोरिंग, and to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
भीतर those platoons, various specific positions exist depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title ii of the Comprehensive ड्रग गाली Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug नीति under जिससे the manufacture, importation, possession, use and वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The विधान created पाँच schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in प्रत्येक.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration और the Food और ड्रग प्रशासन, determine which substances are added to or removed इससे the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, and Congress रै sometimes अनुसूचित other substances through legislation ऐसे as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape रोकथाम Act of 2000, which लगाई gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule i. Classification decisions हैं required to be made on criteria सहित potential for गाली ( an undefined term ), currently स्वीकृत medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a नई जर्सी पारगमन park-and-ride station in वेन, New Jersey along the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to New यॉर्क City and various other points in the area as well as Montclair-Boonton Line train सेवा to New यॉर्क, Hoboken, और intermediate अंक साथ the line between Hackettstown and Montclair राज्य University.
It is located off of the southbound गलियों of New जर्सी Route 23 on West Belt Road, near the interchange where Route 23, Interstate 80, and U.S. Route 46 meet, across from the Willowbrook Mall.
The station opened in January 2008 and has 1,000 parking स्पेसेस.
New Jersey Transit intends for this combined रेल and bus station to become an `` interceptor station, '' that होगा help relieve the habitual congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange, where the तीन प्रमुख highways मिलें.
In addition, the construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at what was then Route 23 Park & Ride, a bus depot on रूट 23 North कि has since been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride, and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the now-Mother 's साईट had limited parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull पार्किंग areas at Willowbrook.
The Wayne township bus garage is located on the opposite side of Route 23.
वहीँ has महरूम a प्रस्ताव to निर्माण a parking deck साथ another thousand धब्बे and develop the land at the स्टेशन.
In addition to Montclair-Boonton trains, the पारगमन Center is served by the following New Jersey पारगमन bus lines:
75 to Newark penn Station and बटलर
194 to Port Authority Bus Terminal and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port Authority बस Terminal and William Paterson विश्वविद्यालयों
324 to बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार and वेन Route 23
748 to Willowbrook Mall and Paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at प्रतीक, ampersat, apetail or commercial at in English—and less commonly a wide range of अन्य शर्तें.
The फैक्ट that there is no single word in English for the symbol has prompted some writers to उपयोग the French arobase or Spanish and Portuguese arroba—or to सिक्का new words ऐसे as asperand, ampersat—but none of ये has achieved चौड़ी currency.
Originally an accounting और commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it was not included on the keyboard of the earliest commercially कामयाब typewriters, but was on at least one 1889 model और the very successful Underwood models from the `` underwood No. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
It is now universally शामिल on computer keyboards.
In हाल years, its meaning has grown to include the भाव of being `` located at, '' `` and, '' or `` directed at '', especially in email addresses and सोशल media, particularly Twitter.
the mark is encoded at.
the Catcher in the Rye is a 1951 novel by J. D. salinger.
Originally published for adults, it has चूंकि become popular with adolescent पाठक for its विषयवस्तु of teenage angst और alienation.
It has been translated into लगभग all of the world 's major languages.
Around 250,000 copies are sold each year with total sales of more than 65 million books.
The novel 's protagonist and antihero, Holden caulfield, रै become an icon for teenage rebellion.
The अनोखा was शामिल on Times 2005 list of the 100 best English-language novels written since 1923, and it was named by Modern पुस्तकालयों and its पाठक as एक of the 100 best english-language novels of the 20th century.
It has been frequently challenged in the United States और other countries for its liberal use of profanity और portrayal of sexuality.
It also deals with जटिल मुद्दे of identity, belonging, connection, and alienation.
skeletal muscles होमो sapiens
इस is a table of मांसपेशियां of the इंसान anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles भीतर the typical human, and लगभग प्रत्येक muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical द्विपक्षीय muscles, मिला on both पहलू, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different भाग of a सिंगल muscle or as several muscles.
Examples range from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck, muscles of the धड़ or ट्रंक, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
the action refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical position.
In अन्य स्थितियाँ, other actions may be performed.
Bad Girls क्लबों ( BGC ) is an American reality television series created by Jonathan Murray लिये the Oxygen television स्टेशन.
The दिखाएँ centers on seven feisty and mischievous women साथ different backgrounds and personalities, who have a number of मनोवैज्ञानिक and behavioral problems.
They हैं introduced to the show off उनके pernicious behavior और accomplish specific goals.
the cast, deemed `` bad girls '', enjoy a luxurious lifestyle in a fine mansion for three months, during which they must obey specified rules.
Their lives inside – and outside – of the house हैं chronicled and recorded by the उत्पादन team.
the ख़राब Girls Club is broadcast in five countries ( United States, Netherlands, Australia, Hungary, and Sweden ).
It has प्राप्त ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ from critics, who मानना the show promotes violence by adolescent viewers.
Furthermore, several cast members made controversial remarks which outraged many viewers.
the format of the show has बदला from early seasons.
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a नियम, she is evicted from the show and, if it is जल्दी in the season, replaced by a नई `` bad लड़की ''.
वहीँ have been nine पूरा seasons of The Bad Girls क्लबों, with the tenth season currently airing.
the fourth season had the highest ratings in the show 's history, becoming its `` breakthrough ऋतु ''.
There have महरूम three spin-offs of the Bad लड़कियों क्लबों.
One of them, प्रेम Games : Bad Girls Need Love too, where past डाल members तलाश true love, has gained high ratings.
Oxygen has भी released a mobile game, कॉमिक strip और merchandise to promote the show.
Of the 92 contestants, Kerry harvick ( of season one ) was a successful देश singer before the show.
Tanisha Thomas ( of season two ) later hosted Oxygen 's OxygenLive !
and the subsequent seasons of Love Games : Bad Girls Need प्रेम Too.
थामस, who has been उतावले the `` godmother '' to all contestants, has her own television documentary हकदार Tanisha Gets Married.
As of Season 8 she 's महरूम the मेजबान of the reunion specials.
The Iowa Senate is the upper house of the आयोवा General Assembly.
वहीँ are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate, representing 50 single-member जिले across the state with populations of approximately 60,927 प्रति constituency,.
Each Senate district is रचित of two House districts.
the Senate meets at the आयोवा State कैपिटल in Des moines.
नापसंद the lower house, the Iowa House of Representatives, Senators serve four-year terms, with half of the सीनेट staggered for re-election प्रत्येक two years.
There are no term limits for the Senate.
Mechanical repair
Maintenance, repair, और operations ( MRO ) or maintenance, repair, and overhaul involves fixing any sort of mechanical, plumbing or electrical device should it become out of अनुक्रम or broken ( known as repair, unscheduled or casualty maintenance ).
It also शामिल performing दिनचर्या actions which keep the device in working order ( known as scheduled maintenance ) or prevent trouble from arising ( preventive maintenance ).
mro may be पारिभाषित as, `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or restoring an item in or to a state in which it can perform its required function.
The actions include the combination of all technical and सम्बन्धित administrative, managerial, and supervision actions. ''
mro operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the ग्राहक, i.e. a service is होने offered, or whether the product is खरीदा by the reprocessing organisation and sold to कोई customer wishing to मेक the purchase ( Guadette, 2002 ).
In the former case it may be a backshop operation भीतर a larger organisation or smaller operation.
The former of these represents a closed लूप supply chain और usually has the पैमाना of maintenance, repair or of the product.
The latter of the categorisations is an open लूप supply chain और is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture.
The main characteristic of the closed loop system is that the demand for a product is matched with the supply of a प्रयुक्त product.
neglecting asset write-offs और exceptional activities the कुल population of the product between the customer and the service provider remains constant.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William आर्थर Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder son of Charles, Prince of Wales, and Diana, Princess of Wales, and third-eldest grandchild of Queen एलिज़ाबेथ II and Prince फिलिप, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the लकीर of succession, पीछे उसके father, to the thrones of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, तुवालू, Saint Lucia, Saint विंसेंट और the Grenadines, बेलीज़, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and नेविस.
Prince William was educated at चार स्कूलों in the United Kingdom and obtained a degree इससे the University of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, Belize, Tanzania, and कीनिया where he has lived and holidayed several times.
Prince विलियम has also taken kiswahili studies at universities in Kenya and Tanzania.
he थी commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the household Cavalry —serving साथ his brother Prince Harry —and, दो years later, earned his विंग्स by completing pilot training at royal एयर Force College cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, was promoted to Flight Lieutenant और underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot साथ the Search and Rescue Force.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर training and went on to RAF Valley on No. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
प्रिंस William शादीशुदा his longtime girlfriend, कैथरीन मिडलटन, on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
घंटों prior to उसके wedding, Prince विलियम was created ड्यूक of Cambridge, Earl of Strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
DeAndre cortez Way ( born July 28, 1990 ), better known by उसके stage name soulja Boy Tell 'Em, or simply Soulja Boy, is an अमरीकी rapper, record निर्माता, actor, और entrepreneur.
in September 2007, his single `` Crank That ( Soulja Boy ) `` reached number one on the Billboard hot 100.
The single was initially self-published on the अंतरजाल, और it later became a number-one hit in the संयुक्त States for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007.
On अगस्त 17 Way was listed at # 18 on the Forbes list of Hip-Hop नकदी Kings of 2010 earning $ 7 million for that year.
Way has currently released three studio albums and one independent album : his debut studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA.
However, उसके next two albums, iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did not match the commercial success of his debut, the latter तभी selling 100,000 copies, despite the success of several singles across दोनो albums, such as `` Kiss me Thru the फोन `` and `` Turn my swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ).
This was mainly due to negotiation problems with Interscope Records which meant a limited amount of records were made available to the public.
As of 2011, Way has confirmed he is working on his fourth studio album, entitled USA DRE, which will be released in 2013.
The electron transport chain in the mitochondrion is the site of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
The NADH and succinate generated in the citric एसिड साईकिल are oxidized, providing उर्जा to power ATP synthase.
Photosynthetic इलेक्ट्रॉन transport chain of the thylakoid membrane.
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an electron donor ( ऐसे as NADH ) and an electron acceptor ( ऐसे as o2 ) with the ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane.
The resulting electrochemical प्रोटॉन gradient is used to generate chemical energy in the form of adenosine ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( ATP ).
Electron transport chains are the सेल्यूलर mechanisms used लिये extracting energy इससे sunlight in photosynthesis and also from redox reactions, ऐसे as the ऑक्सीकरण of sugars ( respiration ).
In chloroplasts, light drives the conversion of जल to oxygen and NADP+ to NADPH with transfer of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes.
in mitochondria, it is the परिवर्तन of oxygen to water, NADH to NAD+ और succinate to fumarate that हैं required to generate the proton gradient.
Electron transport chains are major sites of premature electron leakage to oxygen, generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative तनाव.
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip, Ryzolt, Ultracet, Ultram in the यूएसए, Ralivia, Zytram XL Durella { cr-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain.
The ड्रग has a wide range of अनुप्रयोग, सहित उपचार of rheumatoid arthritis, बेचैन legs सिंड्रोम, मोटर neurone disease and fibromyalgia.
It was launched और marketed as tramal by the German pharmaceutical company Grünenthal GmbH in 1977.
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist कि also induces serotonin release और inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
Tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol, a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist.
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are distinguished from other अधिक potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors.
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' madoff ( ; born April 29, 1938 ) is an अमरीकी former stockbroker, निवेश advisor, financier, और white collar criminal.
He is the पूर्व non-executive अध्यक्ष of the NASDAQ भण्डार मार्केट, and the admitted operator of a Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest financial fraud in u.S. history.
Madoff संस्थापित the Wall Street firm Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC in 1960, and was its chairman until his गिरफ़्तार on December 11, 2008.
The firm was एक of the शीर्ष market maker businesses on Wall Street, जिससे bypassed `` विशेषज्ञ '' firms by directly executing आदेश over the काउंटर from retail brokers.
he employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief अनुपालन Officer ; Peter has since been sentenced to 10 years in prison.
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's rules and compliance अधिकारी and attorney, और his sons Andrew and Mark ( Mark committed suicide by hanging exactly two years after his father 's गिरफ़्तार ).
On दिसम्बर 10, 2008, madoff 's sons बताई authorities that their father had confessed to them that the asset management unit of his firm was a विशाल पेन्शन scheme, and quoted him as describing it as `` one बिग झूठ. ''
The following day, FBI agents arrested madoff और charged him with one count of securities fraud.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange आयोग ( SEC ) had previously conducted investigations into Madoff 's business practices, but किया not uncover the massive fraud.
In March 2009, Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 संघीय felonies and admitted to turning his wealth management business into a massive Ponzi scheme that झांसे हज़ारों of investors of अरबों of dollars.
Madoff said he began the पेन्शन scheme in the early 1990s.
However, संघीय investigators believe the धोखाधड़ी began as early as the 1970s, और those charged with recovering the लापता money believe the investment आपरेशन may never have been legitimate.
The amount missing from client accounts, including fabricated gains, was almost $ 65 billion.
The court-appointed trustee estimated actual losses to निवेशकों of $ 18 billion.
On June 29, 2009, he was sentenced to 150 years in prison, the अधिकतम allowed.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several देशों to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other प्रशासनिक support professionals.
in North America, it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in April ( अप्रैल 18 in 2013 ).
in Australia it is celebrated on the first Friday in may
A quasi-judicial body is an entity ऐसे as an arbitrator or tribunal board, generally of a public administrative agency, which has powers and प्रक्रियाओं resembling those of a court of law or judge, और which is obligated to objectively determine facts and चित्रण conclusions इससे them so as to provide the basis of an आधिकारिक action.
Such क्रियाएँ are able to remedy a हालात or थोपने legal penalties, and may affect the विधिक अधिकारों, कर्तव्य or privileges of specific parties.
Monument of tycho Brahe and Johannes कॅप्लर in Prague
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ), born Tyge Ottesen Brahe, was a Danish nobleman known for his accurate and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations.
He was born in Scania, then part of Denmark, now part of modern-day Sweden.
tycho was well ज्ञात in उसके lifetime as an astronomer and alchemist.
In his De nova स्टेला ( on the new star ) of 1573, he refuted the Aristotelian विश्वास in an unchanging celestial realm.
His precise measurements indicated that `` new सितारों, '' ( stellae novae, now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572, lacked the parallax expected in sub-lunar phenomena, and यहूद इसलिए not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed, लकिन यहूद above the atmosphere and moon.
Using similar measurements he दिखाया that धूमकेतुओं were also not atmospheric phenomena, as previously thought, और must pass through the supposedly `` immutable '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, Tycho worked to combine what he saw as the geometrical benefits of the Copernican system with the philosophical लाभ of the Ptolemaic system into उसके own मॉडल of the ब्रह्मांड, the Tychonic system.
furthermore, he was the पिछला of the major naked नजर astronomers, working without telescopes for उसके observations.
tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of hven and the funding to निर्माण the Uraniborg, an early research संस्थान, where he built large astronomical instruments and took many careful measurements, and बाद Stjerneborg, underground, when he discovered कि उसके instruments in the former were नहीं sufficiently steady.
On the island ( on which he demonstrated autocratic character और behavior toward the residents ) he founded manufactories such as paper-making to provide सामग्री for printing उसके results.
After मतभिन्नता with the नई Danish king Christian IV in 1597, he was आमंत्रित by the Bohemian king and पावन Roman emperor Rudolph II to Prague, where he became the official imperial astronomer.
He निर्मित the नई observatory at benátky nad Jizerou.
Here, इससे 1600 until his मौत in 1601, he was assisted by Johannes Kepler who later used Tycho 's astronomical आंकड़ा to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion.
guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a ज़िला of सियोल, South कोरियाई, which was separated from Yeongdeungpo ज़िला on April 1, 1980.
स्तिथ in the southwestern भाग of the city, जहाँ besides Yangcheon ज़िला and Geumcheon ज़िला guro District has an important position as a transport link which contains railroads, land routes from the बाकी of सियोल to the south of the country.
The Gyeongbu and gyeongin railway lines connect Seoul to Busan and Incheon.
In जोड, Seoul महानगर Subway लाइनों 1, 2, and 7, and प्रमुख highways प्रतिच्छेद in Guro District.
The name Guro originates from the legend कि nine ( ) old मेन ( Korean : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district.
A digital industrial complex is located in Guro District.
The Guro Digital औद्योगिक Complex, which played a अग्रणी industrial role mainly with textile manufacturing, dressmaking और other labour-intensive industries in 1967, has महरूम rapidly changed into an IT industrial complex.
इस complex played a pivotal भूमिका in the economic growth of the South कोरियाई 's development era, referred to as the `` Miracle on the Han River ``, and भी contributed 10 प्रतिशत of नेशनल export in the 1970s.
Twenty-one percent of the कुल area of Guro District is a restricted zone to be used as a greenbelt साथ the only arboretum in Seoul.
the zone is changing into a lively district as विशाल labour-intensive factories are moving from the क्षेत्रफल और the council is developing what it terms इसके four zones.
An `` e-government `` system based on this hosted the international e-participation forum on February 7–9, 2007, with the participation of more than thirty-seven countries.
The forum थी launched with the theme `` promoting लोकतंत्र and क्षेत्रीय Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux, France ), केविन Foy ( Chapel हिल, US ), apirak kosayothin ( Bangkok, Thailand ), Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas ( Colombo, श्री Lanka ), and world experts such as dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Oxford, UK ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere, Finland ) participated in the forum.
The Guro Declaration, adopted during the forum, aims to set up a portal site लिये e-government development और to establish a कंक्रीट project in order to सेतु the digital divide among the world 's शहरों.
This practice has been recognised लिये providing a new important step in the development of e-democracy.
The e-participation forum was a कुंजी factor for Guro to play the leading role in bridging the digital divide among cities, to provide i.t. enterprises located in guro डिजिटल औद्योगिक Complex the opportunity to लॉन्च into the international मार्केट, to improve इसके image और become a global leader to concrete e-democracy.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation forum on February 7–9, 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in transcription from Cantonese ; Mandarin : húndùn ) is a प्रकार of पकौड़ी commonly मिला in a number of Chinese व्यंजन.
Many people were involved in the invention of रेडियो as we now know it.
Several possible methods of wireless संचार were considered, including inductive and capacitive induction and transmission through the मैदान, however the विधि used for radio today exclusively involves the transmission और reception of electromagnetic लहरें.
After early अटकलें on the विषय, experimental work on the कनेक्शन between electricity and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans Christian ओर्स्टेड and continued with the work of André-Marie Ampère, Joseph Henry, and Michael Faraday.
These investigations culminated in the पूरा सिद्धान्त of electromagnetism developed by James Clerk Maxwell.
This सिद्धान्त वर्णित the theoretical basis of the propagation of electromagnetic waves.
After Maxwell 's theory was published many people experimented साथ बेतार communication, कुछ intentionally using Maxwell 's theory some not.
It is considered likely that the first intentional transmission of a सिग्नल by means of electromagnetic waves was performed by David Edward Hughes around 1880, हालांकि this was considered to be induction at the समय.
the first systematic and unequivocal transmission of EM waves was performed by Heinrich रुडॉल्फ Hertz and described in papers published in 1887 और 1890.
हर्ट्ज़ famously considered these परिणाम as होने of little practical value.
बाद Hertz 's work many लोगों were involved in the development of components and theory involved साथ the transmission and रिसेप्शन of electromagnetic waves.
Others, notably Guglielmo Marconi, were concerned with व्यावहारिक improvements and the commercial application of रेडियो to wireless telegraphy.
Later on Reginald A. Fessenden became the first to send an audio signal by अर्थात् of electromagnetic waves.
Scurvy is a बीमारी resulting from a deficiency of vitamin C, which is required लिये the synthesis of collagen in humans.
The रासायनिक नाम for vitamin c, ascorbic acid, is निकला इससे the Latin name of scurvy, scorbutus, which also provides the क्रियाशील scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do with स्कर्वी '' ).
स्कर्वी often presents itself initially as symptoms of malaise and lethargy, followed by formation of spots on the skin, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes.
Spots are most abundant on the thighs and legs, and a person with the ailment looks pale, feels depressed, and is partially immobilized.
As scurvy advances, there can be open, suppurating wounds, loss of teeth, jaundice, fever, neuropathy and death.
Scurvy थी at one समय common among sailors, pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable फल and सब्जियां could be stored ( subsisting instead तभी on cured और salted meats and सूखी grains ) and by soldiers similarly deprived of these foods for extended periods.
It was described by हिपोक्रेटिस ( c. 460 BC–c. 380 bc ), और herbal cures for scurvy have been known in अनेक native cultures चूंकि prehistory.
Scurvy was एक of the limiting factors of marine travel, often killing large numbers of the passengers and क्रू on long-distance voyages.
This became a significant issue in Europe from the beginning of the modern era in the Age of Discovery in the 15th century, continuing to play a significant role through संसार युद्ध i in the 20th century.
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional कमियां, until the isolation of vitamin C और direct evidence of its link to स्कर्वी in 1932, numerous theories and treatments यहूद proposed, often on little or no प्रायोगिक data.
This inconsistency is attributed to the कमी of vitamin c as a distinct अवधारणा, an inability to reliably link अलग foods ( notably उपस्थित in fresh citrus, watercress, और organ meat ) to scurvy.
An additional concept required to समझे scurvy was the degradation of विटामिन C by exposure to air and copper and other transition metal salts ऐसे as those of आयरन, thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time.
उपचार by fresh food, particularly citrus fruit, थी periodically implemented, as it था महरूम since antiquity.
However जबतक the 1930s, उपचार was inconsistent, with many ineffective treatments प्रयुक्त into the 20th century.
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy, James Lind who first proved it could be treated with citrus फल in experiments he described in his 1753 book, A Treatise of the Scurvy, though his advice was not implemented by the Royal नेवी for several decades.
In infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as barlow 's disease, named after Sir थामस Barlow, a British physician who described it.
However, Barlow 's disease may also refer to mitral valve prolapse.
Other eponyms for scurvy include moeller 's disease and Cheadle 's बीमारी.
Scurvy does not occur in most animals क्युकी they can synthesize their अपना vitamin C.
However, humans और other higher primates ( the simians - monkeys and apes - और tarsiers ), guinea सूअर, most or all bats, and कुछ species of पक्षियों and fish lack an एंजाइम ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for ऐसे synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their आहार.
विटामिन c is फैली in plant tissues, साथ विशेषकर high एकाग्रता occurring in citrus फल ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), tomatoes, potatoes, cabbages, और ग्रीन peppers.
आयरन is a chemical element with the symbol Fe ( from ) और परमाणु number 26.
It is a metal in the first transition series.
It is the most common तत्व ( by mass ) forming the ग्रह Earth as a whole, forming much of Earth 's outer और inner core.
It is the चौथी most common element in the धरती 's crust.
Iron 's very common presence in रॉकी planets like Earth is due to इसके abundant production as a result of fusion in high-mass सितारों, where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common isotope of iron ) is the पिछला nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic.
This causes radioactive nickel to become the पिछला element to be produced before collapse of a supernova leads to the explosive events that scatter this precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space.
जैसे other समूह 8 elements, आयरन exists in a wide range of ऑक्सीकरण states, −2 to +6, although +2 और +3 हैं the most common.
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low ऑक्सीजन environments, but is प्रतिक्रिया to oxygen and जल.
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, but oxidize in normal एयर to give hydrated आयरन आक्साइड, commonly known as rust.
Unlike many अन्य metals जिससे रूप passivating oxide layers, iron oxides occupy more volume than iron metal, and thus iron oxides flake off और expose fresh सतहों for corrosion.
Iron metal has महरूम used since ancient टाइम्स, though copper alloys, which have lower melting temperatures, were used first in history.
pure iron is soft ( softer than aluminium ), but is unobtainable by smelting.
The material is significantly hardened और strengthened by impurities from the smelting process, such as carbon.
A certain proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % और 2.1 % ) produces steel, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure आयरन.
Crude iron मेटल is produced in blast furnaces, where ore is reduced by coke to pig iron, which has a high कार्बन content.
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon सामग्री to the correct proportion to make steel.
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with अन्य metals ( मिश्रधातु steels ) हैं by दूर the most common metals in industrial use, due to उनके ग्रेट range of desirable properties and the प्रचुरता of iron.
आयरन chemical यौगिकों, जिससे include ferrous and ferric यौगिकों, have many uses.
Iron oxide mixed with aluminium powder can be ignited to create a थर्माइट reaction, used in welding and purifying ores.
it forms binary compounds with the हैलोजन्स and the chalcogens.
Among इसके organometallic compounds is ferrocene, the पहला sandwich compound discovered.
आयरन plays an महत्वपूर्ण role in biology, forming complexes with molecular ऑक्सीजन in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; these two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates.
Iron is also the मेटल प्रयुक्त at the active site of many important redox enzymes dealing with cellular श्वसन and ऑक्सीकरण और reduction in plants and पशु.
The ब्लू Cross Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ) is a federation of 38 separate स्वास्थ्य insurance organizations and companies in the United States.
Combined, they directly or indirectly provide health बीमे to over 99 million Americans.
the history of Blue Cross dates back to 1929, while the इतिहास of Blue Shield dates to 1939.
The Blue Cross Association dates back to 1960, while its Blue Shield counterpart was created in 1948.
The two organizations merged in 1982, forming the current association.
A potato chip ( ज्ञात as a chip in American, Australian, New Zealand, कनाडाई, Singaporean, Hong Kong, South African and Jamaican English ; as a कुरकुरे in British English and Hiberno-English, and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English ) is a पतला slice of potato कि is deep fried or baked until crunchy.
Potato chips are commonly served as an appetizer, पक्ष डिश, or snack.
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional किस्में are manufactured using विभिन्न flavorings and ingredients including seasonings, herbs, spices, cheeses, and कृत्रिम additives.
`` Crisps '', however, may भी refer to many different types of savory snack products बेची in the United Kingdom और Ireland, कुछ बना from potato, but may also be बना from maize, tapioca or other cereals.
an example of ये kinds of savory snacks is दानव Munch.
आलू चिप्स are a predominant part of the snack food मार्केट in English-speaking countries and numerous other Western nations.
the global potato चिप मार्केट उत्पन्न कुल revenues of US $ 16.4 billion in 2005.
This accounted for 35.5 % of the कुल savory snacks market in that साल ( US $ 46.1 billion ).
Henry Clay, Sr. ( अप्रैल 12, 1777 – June 29, 1852 ) was a lawyer, politician and skilled orator who represented Kentucky in both the Senate and in the House of Representatives.
He served three different terms as Speaker of the United States House of प्रतिनिधि and was also Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829.
He lost his campaigns for president in 1824, 1832 and 1844.
Clay was a dominant फिगर in both the First and Second Party प्रणालियों.
As a अग्रणी war hawk in 1812, he favored war with Britain और played a significant role in अग्रणी the स्वदेश to युद्ध in the War of 1812.
in 1824 he ran for अध्यक्ष and lost, but threw his electoral votes to John क्विंसी एडम्स, who made him secretary of state as the Jacksonians denounced what वे माना a `` corrupt bargain. ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the प्रत्याशी of the Whig Party, which he founded और प्रायः dominated.
Clay थी the foremost proponent of the American System, fighting for an बढ़ाएँ in tariffs to foster industry in the United States, the use of federal funding to build और maintain infrastructure, और a strong national bank.
he opposed the annexation of Texas, fearing it would inject the slavery issue into politics.
Clay also opposed the Mexican-American War and the `` Manifest Destiny `` policy of Democrats, जिससे cost him votes in the close 1844 election.
Dubbed the `` ग्रेट Pacificator, '' Clay brokered important compromises during the Nullification Crisis and on the गुलामी issue.
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio, '' along with his colleagues Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun, he was instrumental in formulating the मिसौरी Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850.
He was viewed as the primary प्रतिनिधि of Western रूचि in this group, और थी given the names `` Henry of the वेस्ट '' and `` The Western Star. ''
A plantation owner, Clay आयोजित slaves दौरान his lifetime but freed them in his Will.
अब्राहम Lincoln, the Whig leader in Illinois, was a great admirer of Clay, saying he was `` my ideal of a great man. ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly supported Clay 's economic programs.
In 1957, a Senate Committee चयनित मिट्टी as एक of the five greatest U.S. Senators, along with Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, Robert la Follette, and Robert Taft.
BJ 's Wholesale Club, Inc., commonly referred to simply as BJ 's, is a membership-only गोदाम club chain operating on the United States East Coast, as well as in the state of Ohio.
The कम्पनी is ranked # 232 on सौभाग्य magazine 's 2010 listing of America 's 500 largest पब्लिक corporations.
The Wizard of Oz, ज्ञात during उसके शासनकाल as the Great and शक्तिशाली Oz, is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, a fictional अक्षर in the Land of Oz, created by American author L. Frank Baum.
the character was further popularized by the classic 1939 movie, wherein his full नाम is नहीं mentioned.
Kristinia Jamie debarge ( ; born March 8, 1990 ) is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, dancer and actress.
She first appeared on नेशनल television in 2003 as a contestant on the American Idol spin-off, अमरीकी Juniors.
In 2009, DeBarge signed a contract साथ the Island Records department sodapop, releasing her debut album Exposed in July of the same year.
The first सिंगल, `` अलविदा ``, reached the top 20 in the us and Canada.
The सीसे single ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) इससे her untitled sophomore एल्बम was released on सितंबर 27, 2012.
The Hawaii योद्धाओं football team represents the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa in NCAA Division i fbs college football.
the टोली is coached by Norm Chow.
It थी भाग of the Western Athletic Conference until July 2012, जब the team joined the पहाड़ West Conference.
The हवाई Warriors were the तीसरा non-aq team to play in a BCS bowl game ; खोने to Georgia 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1, 2008 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Marvin gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born Marvin Pentz gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter और musician.
Gaye helped to आकार the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How मीठी It is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary कुएं और Tammi Terrell, बाद earning the titles `` प्रिंस of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye अंकित the concept एल्बम कया 's going On and Let 's Get It On and became among the first artists in motown to break दूर from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's बाद recordings influenced several R & B subgenres such as शांत storm और neo-soul.
following a काल in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 Grammy award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has been मरणोपरांत honored by many institutions, including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
Location of Chernobyl nuclear power plant
the abandoned city of Pripyat with chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl विपत्ति (, chornobylska Katastrofa – chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the यूक्रेनी SSR ), which थी under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
an explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive अणु into the माहौल, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the western USSR and Europe.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of तभी दो classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event स्केल ( the other being the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
the official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has महरूम disputed, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for.
Mrs. क्लॉस says अलविदा to her husband as he sets off on उसके journey in इस 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus, the क्रिसमस gift-bringer in North American and European क्रिसमस tradition.
She is known for making cookies with the elves and preparing toys with her husband Santa क्लॉस.
Her first name is a mystery, though she has been referred to as मरियम, Jessica, Layla, Annette, Heidi, or मार्था.
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or hjt ) is an open source enumerating tool for microsoft Windows originally created by merijn Bellekom, and later sold to Trend सूक्ष्म.
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods, बल्कि than relying on a database of known स्पाइवेयर.
It scans a user 's computer quickly, and प्रदर्शक browser hijacking locations, showing what entries are there.
HijackThis is प्रयुक्त primarily लिये diagnosis of browser hijacking, as uninformed use of इसके removal facilities can cause significant software क्षति to a computer.
HijackThis करता नहीं remove or detect स्पाइवेयर ; it lists most common locations where browser hijacking activity can occur.
Browser hijacking can cause malware to be संस्थापित on a computer.
On February 16, 2012, Trend Micro released the HijackThis source code as open source और it is now available on the SourceForge site.
Saddle Creek रिकॉर्ड is an American record label आधारित in Omaha, Nebraska.
Started as a college क्लास project on entrepreneurship, the label was founded by माइक Mogis and जस्टिन Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records ).
Mogis soon turned over his role in the company to Robb Nansel.
The label is named after काठी Creek Road, a street that कटौती through the east side of midtown Omaha, और the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor Oberst ( then a solo कलाकार, currently of Bright Eyes, conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band, Desaparecidos and Monsters of Folk ), टिम Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia, currently of कर्सिव और The Good Life ), and others.
Collectively, they were known unofficially as the `` creekers ''.
Saddle Creek first appeared in छपाई on a show flyer, offering to `` Spend an evening with Saddle Creek '' ( बाद to be the title of the label 's DVD. )
Saddle Creek became an incorporated entity as a result of a class project on उद्यमिता.
वितरण is handled by the वैकल्पिक वितरण Alliance, which is under the Warner Music समूह छतरियाँ.
Saddle Creek रिकॉर्ड continues to be the flagship label of a style of music called `` the Omaha Sound ``, characterized by a slight country twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, though, with the वृद्धि of अधिक electronic sounds such as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles.
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate member bands is somewhat समझाया by their history ; a number of the असली members of the लेबल attended grade school साथ.
A `` sister label '', of sorts, to काठी Creek is Team प्रेम, प्रारंभ by Conor Oberst in 2004.
The label opened arms to their first bands not आधारित in Omaha in 2001 with releases by Now It 's ओवरहेड and Sorry About Dresden.
अन्य non-Nebraskan artists followed, including Los एंजिल्स 's Rilo Kiley, Eric Bachmann ( formerly leader of Archers of Loaf and Crooked Fingers इससे North Carolina ), Georgie James ( Washington d.C. ), Two Gallants ( सैन Francisco ), and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ).
In 2005, Spend an Evening with Saddle Creek, a documentary detailing the पहला ten years of the record लेबल 's history, थी released.
The dvd सुविधाएँ extensive interviews with the Saddle Creek bands, archival footage, and rare live performances.
On June 8, 2007, the label opened their own music venue named Slowdown ( after the समूह Slowdown Virginia ), located in downtown Omaha, Nebraska.
the following is a list of episodes लिये the television show Full हाउस.
In total, there were 192 episodes filmed for the show over the course of its आठ seasons, इससे 1987 to 1995.
Full House is a situation comedy which chronicles a widowed पिता 's struggles of raising his three young daughters and the lives that they have छुआ.
The patriarch of the family, Danny ( Bob Saget ), invites his brother-in-law जेसी ( जॉन Stamos ) and his best friend Joey ( Dave Coulier ), to help raise his children ( candace Cameron, Jodie Sweetin, और मरियम Kate/Ashley Olsen ), after his wife was killed during an automobile दुर्घटना involving a drunk driver.
After एपीसोड 88 और 89, Jesse marries बेकी ( Lori Loughlin ), and they move into the attic.
तब, after episodes 104 and 105, Becky और Jesse have twin boys नामित Nicky and एलेक्स ( डेनियल और Kevin Renteria/Blake और डिलन tuomy-wilhoit ).
The series ends with episode 192, `` Michelle Rides Again Part 2 '', when Michelle loses her memory और the family कोशिशें to restore it.
Notice of Stamp Act of 1765 in समाचारपत्र
American newspapers reacted to the स्टैम्प Act with anger और predictions of the demise of journalism.
The स्टैम्प Act 1765 ( short title कर्तव्य in American Colonies अधिनियम 1765 ; 5 George III, c. 12 ) imposed a direct tax by the अंग्रेजों Parliament specifically on the colonies of British America, and it required that अनेक printed सामग्री in the colonies be उत्पादित on stamped पेपर produced in London, carrying an embossed revenue stamp.
ये printed materials were legal दस्तावेज़, magazines, newspapers and many other प्रकार of paper प्रयुक्त throughout the colonies.
Like previous taxes, the stamp tax था to be सशुल्क in valid British currency, not in colonial paper money.
The purpose of the कर was to सहायता pay for troops stationed in उत्तर America after the British victory in the Seven Years ' War.
The British government लगा कि the colonies were the प्राथमिक beneficiaries of this military presence, and should pay at least a portion of the expense.
The Stamp Act met great resistance in the colonies.
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament, and therefore had no influence over what taxes were उठाया, how they यहूद levied, or how they would be spent.
Many colonists considered it a violation of उनके अधिकारों as Englishmen to be taxed without उनके सहमति —consent that only the colonial legislatures could grant.
Colonial assemblies sent petitions and protests.
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City, reflecting the first significant joint colonial response to कोई British measure, भी petitioned Parliament और the King.
Local protest समूह, led by colonial merchants and landowners, established connections through पत्राचार कि created a loose coalition कि विस्तारित from New England to जॉर्जिया.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the Sons of Liberty often turned violent and destructive as the masses became involved.
Very soon all स्टैम्प कर वितरकों यहूद सहमे into resigning their आयोग, and the tax was never effectively collected.
Opposition to the स्टैम्प Act was not सीमित to the colonies.
अंग्रेजों merchants and manufacturers, whose exports to the colonies were threatened by colonial economic समस्याएं exacerbated by the tax, also pressured Parliament.
The Act was repealed on March 18, 1766 as a matter of expedience, but Parliament affirmed its power to legislate for the colonies “in all मामले whatsoever” by also passing the declaratory अधिनियम.
There followed a series of new कर and regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
The episode played a major role in defining the grievances and enabling the organized colonial प्रतिरोध that led to the American Revolution in 1775.
pt-105 underway.
PT नौकाएँ यहूद a variety of torpedo-armed fast attack craft used by the United States Navy in World War II to attack larger surface ships.
`` PT '' is the US hull classification symbol for `` Patrol Torpedo ''.
the pt boat squadrons were nicknamed `` the mosquito fleet ''.
The जापानी called them `` Devil Boats ''.
The original pre– World War I torpedo boats were designed with `` displacement '' hulls.
They displaced up to 300 टन and the top speed was.
The PT boats used in World War II were built using the planing -type hull form developed लिये racing boats.
वे were much smaller ( 30–75 टन ) and तेज़ ( 35–40 knots ).
दोनो प्रकार were designed to स्ट्राइक at larger warships with torpedoes, using relatively high speed to get close, and छोटी size to avoid होने spotted और hit by gunfire.
They यहूद much less expensive than large warships.
pt boats यहूद much faster, smaller, and cheaper than conventional ( displacement hull ) vessels.
दौरान World युद्ध II, अमरीकी pt boats engaged enemy destroyers and numerous other surface craft, ranging from small boats to विशाल supply ships.
PT boats also operated as gunboats विरूद्ध enemy छोटी शिल्प, such as armored barges used by the Japanese शक्तियां for inter-island transport.
Good शुक्रवार is a religious holiday observed primarily by Christians commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ और his death at Calvary.
The holiday is observed दौरान Holy Week as part of the Paschal Triduum on the शुक्रवार preceding Easter Sunday, and may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover.
It is भी ज्ञात as Holy Friday, Great Friday, Black शुक्रवार, or Easter Friday, though the latter properly refers to the Friday in ईस्टर week.
Based on the details of the canonical gospels, the Crucifixion of यीशु was most संभावित to have महरूम on a Friday ( the day before the Sabbath ) ( ).
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is ad 33, by two अलग groups, और originally as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the Biblical and जूलियन calendars और the crescent of the moon.
A third method, using a completely different astronomical दृष्टिकोण based on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and eclipse मॉडल ( consistent साथ Apostle Peter 's reference to a `` चंद्रमा of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ), points to शुक्रवार, 3 अप्रैल AD 33.
The Great Basin is the largest क्षेत्रफल of endorheic watersheds in North America.
It is noted for both its arid conditions and its Basin और दायरा topography कि varies from the North American low point at Badwater Basin to the highest पाइंट of the संलग्न United राज्य, less than दूर at the समिट of Mount Whitney.
The region spans several physiographic divisions, biomes / ecoregions, और deserts.
रास्टर may refer to:
Raster graphics, graphical तकनीकों using arrays of pixel values
Raster graphics editor, a computer program
Raster scan, the pattern of image readout, हस्तांतरण, storage, and reconstruction in टेलीविज़न और computer images
Rasterisation, or rasterization, conversion of a vector image to a रास्टर image
Raster image प्रोसेसर, or RIP, a घटक of a मुद्रण प्रणाली that performs rasterisation
रास्टर interrupt, a कंप्यूटर interrupt सिग्नल
Raster to vector, an image conversion process
Raster bar, an effect used in कंप्यूटर demos
Raster-Noton, a record लेबल
rastrum, a device used in medieval music manuscripts to draw staff lines
Raster Document ऑब्जेक्ट, a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish नायिका और later turned king in the epic poem named after him, one of the oldest surviving pieces of literature in the English भाषा.
The आक्रमण on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii आपरेशन or Operation ai by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the बैटल of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy विरूद्ध the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the u.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of जापानी was planning in Southeast एशिया against overseas territories of the United किंगडम, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base थी attacked by 353 जापानी fighters, bombers and torpedo planes in two waves, शुभारम्भ from six aircraft carriers.
All आठ U.S. नेवी battleships were damaged, with four being sunk.
Two of these were later उठाया, and with the remaining four repaired, छह battleships returned to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or क्षतिग्रस्त three cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 Americans यहूद killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and ईंधन and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the submarine पियर and मुख्यालय building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked.
जापानी losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One जापानी sailor was captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the अमरीकी लोगों and led सीधे to the American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and यूरोपीय theaters.
The following day ( दिसम्बर 8 ), the United राज्य declared war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, जिससे had महरूम दमदार, disappeared.
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality पैट्रोल ) was replaced by active alliance.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the u.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents लिये unannounced military कार्रवाई by Japan.
however, the lack of कोई formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will सजीव in infamy ``.
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south संयुक्त States राजमार्ग कि runs for in the Mountain - Northern Plains states of the संयुक्त States.
The दक्षिणी terminus of the route is at the United states-mexico border in El Paso, टेक्सास, connecting with Mexican संघीय Highway 45.
the northern terminus is at the United States-Canada किनारा in Fortuna, North Dakota, where the route continues north as Saskatchewan Highway 35.
In both the United States and Saskatchewan, Canada the route is known as the CanAm Highway.
भाग of US 85 are considered part of the Theodore Roosevelt एक्सप्रेसवे.
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, नवम्बर 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, पूर्व Vice-President रिचर्ड Nixon, won the election over the Democratic nominee, लाज़िम Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
निक्सन ran on a अभियान that promised to restore law and order to the स्वदेश 's cities, torn by riots and crime.
विश्लेषकों have argued the चुनाव of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the New Deal गठबन्धन that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide, the election saw the लाज़िम president forced out of the race and a रिपब्लिकन निर्वाचित for the first समय in बारह years.
it was a wrenching नेशनल experience, conducted दौरान a साल of violence that included the assassination of civil rights नेता Martin Luther King, Jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक presidential candidate रॉबर्ट F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and हिंसक confrontations between police और anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National सम्मेलन as the लोकतांत्रिक party split again और again.
The election featured the strongest third party effort since 1912 by former अलबामा Governor George Wallace, a Democrat.
क्युकी Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end school segregation, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial जिले in the North.
This थी the last election in which नई York had the most मत in the electoral college ( 43 मत ).
After the 1970 census, California gained the सबसे electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since तब.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won बगैर carrying the वाइस presidential candidate 's home राज्य.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft खिड़कियाँ nt family of operating systems that provides limited सूचना about computer performance and running applications, processes and cpu usage, commit charge and मेमोरी सूचना, network कार्यकलाप and statistics, logged-in users, and system services ( and as often is the case with software टूल्स provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd party software is available which fills the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` Extended Task मैनेजर '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities, प्रोसेसर affinity, forcibly terminate processes, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log off इससे Windows.
Windows Task Manager was introduced साथ Windows NT 4.0.
Previous versions of Windows NT शामिल the Task सूची application, which had far fewer features.
The कार्य list was capable of लिस्टिंग currently running processes and killing उन्हें, or creating a new process.
In खिड़कियाँ XP only, a Shutdown मेनू is also present कि allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn off, Restart, Log Off and Switch उपयोक्ता.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) had a program known as कार्य to display the programs currently running.
This file थी executed by running the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory.
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that हैं used in the आधुनिक Japanese writing system along साथ hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), Hindu-Arabic numerals, and the occasional use of the Latin alphabet.
The Japanese term कांजी ( ) for the Chinese characters वस्तुतः means `` Han वर्ण '' and is written using the वही characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ).
John R Williams ( may 4, 1782 – October 20, 1854 ) was an अमरीकी soldier, merchant, and politician जो is most well ज्ञात for serving as the first mayor of Detroit, Michigan.
In कुल, he served as Detroit 's mayor for five other शर्तें.
He also थी a brigadier general in the United States Army during the Black हॉक War.
A simple dry चुम्बकीय पोर्टेबल compass.
A smartphone that can be used as a compass because of the magnetometer inside.
An iPhone कि can be प्रयुक्त as a geological compass because of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A military compass that was used during संसार War i.
A कम्पास is a navigational instrument that shows directions in a frame of reference that is stationary सापेक्ष to the surface of the earth.
The frame of reference defines the four cardinal directions ( or points ) – north, south, ईस्ट, and west.
Intermediate directions are also पारिभाषित.
Usually, a diagram पुकारा a compass रोज़, जिससे shows the directions ( with their names usually abbreviated to initials ), is marked on the compass.
When the compass is in use, the रोज़ is aligned with the real directions in the फ़्रेम of reference, so, लिये example, the `` N '' mark on the rose really points to the north.
Frequently, in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it, angle markings in degrees are shown on the कम्पास.
North corresponds to zero डिग्री, and the angles increase clockwise, so east is 90 degrees, south is 180, and west is 270.
These numbers allow the compass to show azimuths or बियरिंग, which are commonly stated in this notation.
the magnetic compass was first invented as a यंत्र for भविष्यवाणी as early as the Chinese Han राजवंश ( चूंकि about 206 BC ).
The compass was प्रयुक्त in Song Dynasty चीन by the military for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, और was used for maritime नेविगेशन by 1111 to 1117.
The उपयोग of a कम्पास is recorded in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय between 1187 and 1202, and in Persia in 1232.
The dry compass was invented in यूरोपीय around 1300.
This was supplanted in the early 20th century by the liquid-filled magnetic compass.
The Inca Empire or inka Empire ( Quechua : Tawantinsuyu ) was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America.
The administrative, political and military center of the साम्राज्य was located in Cusco in modern-day पेरू.
The Inca civilization arose from the हाइलैंड्स of Peru sometime in the early 13th century.
From 1438 to 1533, the Incas used a variety of विधि, from conquest to शांतिपूर्ण assimilation, to चरितार्थ a large portion of पश्चिमी South America, केन्द्रित on the Andean पहाड़ ranges, सहित, besides Peru, large भाग of आधुनिक Ecuador, पश्चिमी and south central Bolivia, northwest Argentina, north and सेंट्रल Chile, and southern Colombia into a राज्य comparable to the ऐतिहासिक empires of Eurasia.
The आधिकारिक language of the empire was Quechua, हालांकि hundreds of local languages and dialects of Quechua were spoken.
the Inca referred to उनके empire as tawantinsuyu which can be translated as The Four Regions or the चार संयुक्त Provinces.
There were many local forms of worship, most of them concerning local पवित्र `` Huacas ``, but the Inca leadership encouraged the worship of Inti —the सूर्य god—and imposed इसके sovereignty above other cults such as कि of Pachamama.
the Incas considered उनके King, the sapa इन्का, to be the `` child of the sun. ''
The kidneys हैं organs that serve several essential regulatory roles in most पशु, सहित vertebrates and कुछ invertebrates.
They are essential in the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes, maintenance of acid–base balance, and regulation of रक्त दबाव ( via maintaining नमक and water balance ).
They serve the body as a प्राकृतिक filter of the blood, और remove wastes which are diverted to the urinary bladder.
In producing मूत्र, the गुर्दे excrete wastes such as urea and ammonium, and they हैं भी responsible for the reabsorption of जल, glucose, and amino acids.
The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol, erythropoietin, and the enzyme renin.
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum, the kidneys receive blood इससे the paired renal arteries, and drain into the paired renal veins.
Each गुर्दा excretes urine into a ureter, itself a paired structure that empties into the urinary bladder.
Renal physiology is the study of kidney function, while nephrology is the medical specialty concerned with kidney diseases.
Diseases of the गुर्दा are विविध, but individuals with kidney disease frequently display characteristic clinical features.
Common clinical शर्तें involving the kidney include the nephritic और nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, acute kidney चोट, chronic kidney disease, urinary tract infection, nephrolithiasis, और urinary ट्रैक्ट obstruction.
Various cancers of the kidney exist ; the most आम वयस्क renal cancer is renal cell carcinoma.
Cancers, cysts, and कुछ other renal conditions can be managed with removal of the kidney, or nephrectomy.
When renal function, measured by glomerular filtration rate, is persistently poor, dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options.
Although वे हैं not severely harmful, kidney पत्थरों can be painful and a nuisance.
The हटाना of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment to break up the stones into smaller टुकड़े, which are then passed through the urinary tract.
एक common symptom of kidney पत्थरों is a शार्प pain in the medial/lateral segments of the निम्नतर back.
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately held insurance brokerage firm, providing बीमे, risk management and employee benefits solutions.
In addition to इसके Kansas City, Missouri headquarters, Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries.
Lockton is currently home to more than 4,450 Associates worldwide.
The कम्पनी was founded by Jack Lockton in 1966 and has चूंकि become the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage कड़.
Lockton serves a wide array of उद्योग with services that शामिल risk प्रबन्धन, casualty, surety, professional indemnity and more.
For 46 years, Lockton posted extraordinary organic growth, with वैश्विक revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal 2012.
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s टोली works closely with insurance carriers and administrators to create comprehensive और integrated लाभ रणनीति for clients.
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance, executive लाभ, health and welfare, health रिस्क समाधान, retirement and more.
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity, an संबद्ध of Lockton कंपनियाँ, meets the insurance needs of अपनापन समूह, franchises, professional organizations, and associations of all sizes.
Lockton अपनापन offers a variety of insurance product options and programs.
Products include : General Liability, Professional Liability, प्रॉपर्टी, मजदूर मुआवजे, Directors & Officers Liability, Commercial Auto, Specialty Coverage, Excess, Health Plans and अधिक.
Lockton International : Lockton International operates offices in the UK and Ireland, as well as offices throughout Asia and Latin America.
In यूरोपीय, Lockton International is a partner in EOS RISQ, Europe’s leading insurance broking and risk management consultancy.
EOS risq is an equity-based European partnership of major independent insurance brokers साथ over 3,500 employees based in more than 30 countries in Europe.
lockton International provides specialized समाधान for personal lines, SME’s and major multi-national क्लाइंट.
White chocolate is a chocolate derivative.
It commonly consists of cocoa मक्खन, sugar, milk solids और salt, and is characterized by a pale yellow or आइवरी appearance.
The melting point of cocoa मक्खन, its प्राथमिक cocoa bean घटक, is ऊँची enough to keep श्वेत chocolate ठोस at room temperature.
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship ( born March 14, 1950 ) was Chairman और CEO of massey Energy Co., the sixth largest coal company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States.
He परोसा in those roles from November 30, 2000, until दिसम्बर 31, 2010.
Blankenship is an active वित्तीय backer of the Republican party and भागीदार in local and राज्य politics, especially in his home state of West वर्जिनिया.
He रै frequently spoken out सरेआम परिचय politics, the environment, unions, and coal उत्पादन.
U.S. प्रतिभूति and Exchange आयोग filings show Blankenship was paid $ 17.8 लाख in 2009, the highest in the coal industry.
उसके 2009 अदा represents a $ 6.8 लाख raise over 2008 and almost double his compensation package in 2007.
Blankenship भी received a deferred compensation package valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009.
On December 3, 2010, Blankenship announced that he was retiring as CEO at the end of the year, और would be succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips Jr.
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions प्रयुक्त in English to describe a dog 's bark.
Bow Wow may also refer to:
धनुष Wow ( बैंड ), a Japanese hard rock/heavy metal band
धनुष Wow ( rapper ), an American rapper and actor
धनुष Wow Sauce, a सॉस developed in the Cotswolds region of इंग्लैण्ड
धनुष Wow Wow, a UK new wave band
`` Bow wow '', a song by The fiery Furnaces from their 2003 album Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` धनुष Wow Blues ( my मामा दावत me जैसे a Dog ) '', a song composed in the 1920s by Cliff Friend & Nat ओसबोर्न
लापरवाही ( lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to neglect, literally `` not to pick up कुछ '' ) is a विफलता to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person होता exercise in like circumstances.
the area of tort law ज्ञात as लापरवाही involves harm caused by carelessness, नहीं intentional harm.
According to Jay M. Feinman of the Rutgers University School of Law ;
`` The core idea of negligence is that people चाहिए exercise reasonable care when वे act by taking account of the potential harm that वे might foreseeably cause harm to other people. ''
`` those who go personally or bring property where they know कि वे or it may come into collision with the persons or property of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision. ''
Fletcher v Rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 Ex 265 )
Through civil litigation, if an घायल व्यक्ति proves that another person acted negligently to cause their injury, they can recover क्षतिपूर्ति to compensate for their harm.
Proving a मामला for लापरवाही can potentially entitle the घायल plaintiff to compensation for harm to उनके देह, property, mental well-being, financial status, or intimate relationships.
However, क्युकी negligence मामले are very fact-specific, इस सामान्य definition does not fully explain the concept of when the विधि will आवश्यकता one person to compensate another for losses caused by accidental injury.
Further, the विधि of लापरवाही at common law is only एक पहलू of the law of liability.
Although resulting damages must be सिद्ध in order to recover मुआवजे in a negligence कार्रवाई, the nature और extent of those damages are नहीं the primary फ़ोकस of लापरवाही cases.
A melanocytic nevus ( भी known as `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a प्रकार of lesion that contains nevus cells ( a प्रकार of melanocyte ).
Some sources equate the term mole with `` melanocytic nevus ''.
Other sources reserve the पद `` mole '' for अन्य purposes.
The majority of moles appear during the first two decades of a person’s जीवन, जबकि about एक in प्रत्येक 100 शिशु is born with औज़ार.
Acquired moles हैं a form of benign neoplasm, while congenital moles, or congenital nevi, हैं considered a minor malformation or hamartoma and may be at a higher risk लिये melanoma.
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a pigmented विकास on the skin, formed mostly of a type of cell ज्ञात as a melanocyte.
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting एजेंट, मेलेनिन, is responsible for their dark color.
Moles are a member of the family of skin lesions known as nevi.
The comprehensive metabolic फलक, or रासायनिक स्क्रीन, ( CMP ; cpt code 80053 ) is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool.
The CMP provides a rough check of kidney function, liver फलन, and electrolyte and fluid balance, but it is far from perfect.
Abnormal values from a cbc may be a result of false positives and thus the CBC may need to be repeated for a रोगी ( or replaced with a more specific परीक्षण ).
The CMP is an expanded version of the basic metabolic panel ( bmp ), जिससे does not include liver tests.
A CMP ( or bmp ) can be ordered as part of a दिनचर्या physical परिक्षा, or may be used to monitor a patient साथ a chronic disease, such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension.
Previous names लिये the फलक of tests have been Chem 12, Chemistry panel, Chemistry screen, sma 12, SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple विश्लेषण - Computer ).
The tests are performed on machines आधारित on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957.
Natural gas extraction by countries in cubic meters per year.
Natural gas is a naturally occurring हाइड्रोकार्बन gas mixture consisting primarily of methane, but commonly सहित varying amounts of अन्य hydrocarbons, कार्बन dioxide, nitrogen, and हाइड्रोजन sulfide.
प्राकृतिक gas is an energy source प्रायः used for heating, cooking, and electricity generation.
It is also used as fuel for vehicles और as a chemical फर्टिलाइजर in the manufacture of plastics and other commercially important organic chemicals.
Natural gas is मिला in गहन underground natural rock formations or associated साथ अन्य hydrocarbon टंकी in coal beds and as methane clathrates.
Petroleum is also another resource found in proximity to and with natural gas.
Most natural gas was created over time by दो mechanisms : biogenic और thermogenic.
Biogenic gas is created by methanogenic organisms in marshes, bogs, landfills, और shallow sediments.
Deeper in the earth, at greater temperature and pressure, thermogenic gas is निर्मित इससे buried organic material.
Before natural gas can be used as a ईंधन, it must undergo processing to remove impurities, सहित water, to meet the specifications of marketable natural gas.
The by-products of processing include ethane, propane, butanes, pentanes, and उच्चतर molecular weight hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into pure sulfur ), कार्बन dioxide, water vapor, and sometimes हीलियम and nitrogen.
प्राकृतिक gas is often informally referred to बस as गैस, especially जब compared to अन्य energy स्त्रोत such as oil or coal.
This page is about the Imagination Movers band.
For information परिचय the TV दिखाएँ अभिनीत the बैंड, see Imagination मूवर्स ( TV series ).
Imagination Movers is a band formed in New Orleans, Louisiana, in 2003.
The lineup includes Rich कॉलिन्स, Scott Durbin, Dave Poche, and Scott `` Smitty '' Smith.
Members of the group were longtime मित्रों and neighbors.
The group started as a television/music concept which was pitched to लोकल PBS affiliates in नई Orleans.
WLAE-TV was the first to लो an interest in the group और later introduced them to Beth Courtney, the अध्यक्ष & Chief Executive Officer at Louisiana Public Broadcasting.
Soon after, LPB began airing one-minute videos produced by the Imagination Movers themselves.
the Movers built a sizable regional following by setting educational songs for kids to melodies and rhythms that adults appreciate as well.
They sold अधिक than 100,000 copies of their self-produced CDs और DVDs.
Their three इंडी CDs : `` शुभ Ideas, '' `` Calling All Movers, '' and `` Eight फीट '' साथ with उनके ग्रास roots DVD `` Stir It Up '' have, combined, जीती fourteen national पुरस्कार, from such groups as the National संघ of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice.
In early 2005, Disney took सूचना, और initiated negotiations to add the Movers to the company 's roster.
ये यहूद बाधित in August when the flood protection designed और built by the Army Corps of Engineers to protect New Orleans failed.
The resulting floodwater claimed the band 's दफ्तर, as well as the घरों of Collins, durbin and Poche – but the deal was signed in the spring of 2006.
In 2008, वॉल्ट Disney रिकॉर्ड introduced the Imagination Movers ' music to the nation with the release of the Movers ' first nationally-released CD, `` Juice Box Heroes. ''
In सितंबर 2008, a 30-minute दिखाएँ featuring the group began airing on the Disney Channel 's preschool programming block known as Playhouse डिज़्नी, और currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's बदलना, Disney Junior.
the Movers लिखें and perform all the गीतों on their show.
Moreover, the कल्पना Movers have received critical kudos for their live कॉन्सर्ट performances.
In October 2009, the Imagination Movers started the `` Live from the Idea Warehouse Concert Tour 2009 ''.
traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their live performances include lots of their favorite songs और नाचना, as well as video appearances of Warehouse Mouse.
शुरूआत in early-february 2011 and wrapping up in late May 2011, the Imagination Movers presented their `` In a Big Warehouse Concert Tour, '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities आरपार North America.
From March to October 2012, the Imagination Movers toured North America on उनके post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour.
The show maintained several elements of the original TV concept, such as an on-stage `` विचार आपात '' and several sets from their older catalogue ; however, साथ the प्रस्थान of Wendy Calio back to उसके native Hawaii, the अक्षर `` Nina '', along with her musical numbers, is not present.
The दौरे promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/dvd release, `` Rock-O-Matic '', which features सब नई music इससे the बैंड.
The album itself is produced independently of Disney and has a notably more mature, contemporary rock-and-roll sound, हालांकि still very appropriate for children.
Several performance dates were moved to later in 2012 to benefit from the increased exposure of the Imagination मूवर्स TV show अभी playing daily on Disney Junior.
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia, including तस्मानिया.
Together with the four species of echidna, it is one of the five extant species of monotremes, the only स्तनधारियों that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole जीना representative of its family ( ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a number of related species have महरूम मिला in the fossil record.
The असामान्य appearance of this egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it, with कुछ considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few विषैला mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot कि delivers a venom सक्षम of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus मेक it an important subject in the study of evolutionary जीवविज्ञान and a recognisable और iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at नेशनल events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the state of नई South Wales.
Until the जल्दी 20th century, it was hunted for its फर, but it is अभी protected throughout its range.
Although खिलाते breeding programmes have था only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of pollution, it is not अंतर्गत any तात्कालिक threat.
the Chupacabra or chupacabras (, from chupar `` to suck '' और cabra `` goat '', literally `` goat sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the americas.
it is संबद्ध more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto Rico ( where these sightings were पहला reported ), मैक्सिको, and the United राज्य, especially in the latter 's लैटिन American communities.
the name comes from the एनिमल 's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood of पशुधन, especially goats.
Physical descriptions of the प्राणी vary.
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as जल्दी as 1995 in Puerto Rico, और have चूंकि been reported as far उत्तर as Maine, and as far south as Chile, और even being spotted outside the Americas in countries जैसे Russia and The Philippines.
It is supposedly a heavy creature, the size of a छोटी भालू, with a row of spines reaching from the neck to the आधार of the tail.
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have been disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking evidence, while most रिपोर्ट्स in northern Mexico and the southern United States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange.
biologists और wildlife management officials view the chupacabra as a contemporary legend.
The North American Free व्यापार अनुबंध ( NAFTA ) is an agreement signed by Canada, Mexico, and the United States, creating a trilateral trade bloc in North अमेरिका.
The agreement came into force on January 1, 1994.
It superseded the Canada–United States Free Trade Agreement between the U.S., Canada, और Mexico
nafta रै two supplements : the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation ( NAAEC ) and the North अमरीकी अनुबंध on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ).
Thermal सुकून is the condition of दिमाग that expresses satisfaction with the thermal environment and is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ANSI / ASHRAE मानक 55 ).
Maintaining this standard of thermal comfort लिये occupants of इमारतें or अन्य enclosures is one of the महत्वपूर्ण goals of HVAC ( heating, ventilation, और air conditioning ) design इंजीनियर्स.
The पूर्वानुमानित Mean Vote ( PMV ) model स्टैंड among the most recognized thermal comfort models.
It was developed using principles of ऊष्मा संतुलन and experimental data collected in a controlled climate कक्ष under steady state conditions.
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected in a controlled climate, it is not suitable for applications in naturally ventilated spaces which often have high levels of air movement.
This shortcoming motivated the विकास of a परिवार of empirical statistical models of thermal comfort in naturally ventilated spaces known as अनुकूली models.
अनुकूली मॉडल of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with their पर्यावरण, and controlling their thermal comfort by means of clothing or window-opening and closing.
This is in contrast to thermal comfort in sealed buildings, in which occupants experience the environment passively.
Thermal comfort is प्रभावित by heat conduction, convection, radiation, और evaporative ऊष्मा loss.
Thermal comfort is maintained जब the heat उत्पन्न by इंसान metabolism is allowed to dissipate, thus maintaining थर्मल equilibrium with the surroundings.
It has been long recognized that the sensation of अहसास hot or cold is not just dependent on एयर temperature alone.
थर्मल comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE मानक 55 can be freely performed साथ the cbe Thermal Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55.
Durante degli एलीगियरी, simply referred to as Dante (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), was a major Italian poet of the Middle आयु.
His Divine Comedy, originally called ' and later called ' by Boccaccio, is widely considered the greatest literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world साहित्य.
In इटली he is known as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet '' ) or बस '.
he, Petrarch and Boccaccio are also known as `` the three fountains '' or `` the three crowns ''.
Dante is also called the `` Father of the Italian language ''.
Headquarters ( Kobe, Japan )
( ) is a tire and rubber company based in Japan.
it is part of the Sumitomo Group.
the company traces its origins to 1909, जब the Sumitomo Group made an निवेश in Dunlop Japan, the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the British company Dunlop रबर.
Over the सालो Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a close business relationship, and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired control of Dunlop Japan and renamed it Sumitomo Rubber Industries ltd.
In 1985, when Dunlop Rubber थी लिया over by btr पीएलसी, the company acquired the ऑटोमोबाइल tire assets of Dunlop, including the right to use the dunlop brand on automobile tires.
The अधिग्रहण did not शामिल the US और Australian व्यवसायों, which were separately स्वामित्व, लकिन in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US from इसके management.
In 1997, Sumitomo formed a joint venture with goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, by which goodyear and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture tires for each अन्य 's markets, including Dunlop branded tires.
As part of the agreement, goodyear acquired 75 % interests in Dunlop Tyres, the UK company which Sumitomo था formed, and in Dunlop Tire Corporation.
Goodyear और Sumitomo भी made investments in प्रत्येक other.
Today, the कम्पनी makes a wide range of rubber based products, including automobile tires, golf balls and tennis balls.
microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated विकास environments ( आईडीई ) developed by Microsoft that हैं lightweight versions of the Microsoft Visual Studio product लकीर.
Express Editions were conceived beginning with Visual Studio 2005.
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use and easy-to-learn ides for users अन्य than professional software developers, ऐसे as hobbyists and students.
The Alps are one of the ग्रेट पहाड़ दायरा systems of Europe stretching approximately आरपार eight Alpine देशों from ऑस्ट्रिया and Slovenia in the east, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, जर्मनी, France to the west और Italy and Monaco to the south.
The mountains were formed over hundreds of millions of सालो as the African और Eurasian tectonic plates collided.
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in marine sedimentary rocks rising by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks ऐसे as Mont blanc और the Matterhorn.
Mont Blanc spans the french–italian border, and at is the highest mountain in the Alps.
The Alpine region क्षेत्रफल contains अनेक peaks higher than, ज्ञात as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The altitude and size of the range affects the climate in Europe ; in the mountains precipitation levels vary greatly and climatic conditions consist of distinct zones.
Wildlife such as ibex सजीव in the higher peaks to elevations of, and plants such as edelweiss grow in rocky areas in lower elevations as खूब as in higher elevations.
Evidence of human habitation in the Alps goes back to the Paleolithic era.
A mummified man, संकल्पित to be 5,000 years old, was खोजा on a glacier at the austrian–italian किनारा in 1991.
By the 6th century BC, the सेल्टिक La tène culture was well established.
Hannibal may have crossed the Alps with a herd of हाथियों, and the Romans had settlements in the region.
In 1800 नेपोलियन crossed one of the mountain passes साथ an army of 40,000.
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an influx of naturalists, writers, and artists, in particular the romantics, followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks.
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the अल्पाइन देशों, साथ the exception of Switzerland and liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a base of आपरेशन in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war.
The Alpine प्रदेश has a strong cultural identity.
the traditional culture of farming, cheesemaking, और woodworking still exists in Alpine villages, although the tourist उद्योग began to grow जल्दी in the 20th century and expanded greatly बाद संसार War II to become the dominant उद्योग by the end of the century.
The शीत Olympic Games have been hosted in the Swiss, French, Italian, Austrian and German ऐल्प्स.
At present the region is home to 14 लाख लोगों and रै 120 million annual visitors.
लोइस patrice Griffin ( née Pewterschmidt ) is a character इससे the animated television श्रेणी Family Guy.
She is voiced by writer Alex Borstein and first appeared on television, along with the rest of the परिवार in the 15-minute short on December 20, 1998.
Lois was created and designed by series creator Seth MacFarlane.
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a पायलट to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on लैरी और स्टीव, a short made by MacFarlane which featured a middle-aged character नामित Larry and an intellectual dog, Steve.
After the pilot was given the green light, the Griffin family appeared on the एपीसोड `` मौत Has a Shadow ``.
Lois is the mother of the Griffin परिवार.
With her husband Peter, she has had three children : Meg, क्रिस, and stewie.
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother, despite her admitting to being a drug user, a recovering meth नशेड़ी kleptomaniac.
Lois has also had अनेक affairs, one of जिससे allegedly resulted in the धारणा of Meg.
She has appeared in other media relating to परिवार Guy—including a वीडियो game, commercials and books—and inspired an entire लकीर of merchandise.
लोइस 's distinctive नई York एक्सेंट originated इससे a character in a stage show that Alex Borstein had performed in, which was largely प्रेरित by a relative who grew up on Long Island, New यॉर्क.
Family transmission of Basque language ( Basque as आरंभिक language )
प्रतिशत of students पंजीकृत in Basque भाषा schools ( 2000–2005 ).
Location of the basque-language प्रांतों भीतर Spain and France
Basque ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral language of the Basque लोगों, who inhabit the Basque Country, a region spanning an area in northeastern Spain और southwestern France.
It is spoken by 27 % of Basques in all territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ).
of these, 663,035 live in the Spanish भाग of the Basque country and the remaining 51,100 live in the French भाग.
in academic discussions of the distribution of Basque in Spain and France, it is प्रथागत to refer to three ancient provinces in France and four Spanish provinces.
Native speakers are concentrated in a contiguous क्षेत्रफल including parts of the Spanish autonomous communities of the Basque Country and नावारा and in the western हाफ of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic Basque Country incorporating the traditional Spanish प्रांतों of Biscay, gipuzkoa, and Álava, which retain their अस्तित्व as politico-administrative divisions.
ये provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily populated by जातीय Basques, लकिन बास्क was, at तनिक until the 1990s, नहीं spoken as a native language in most of álava, western parts of Biscay और सेंट्रल and southern areas of Navarre, either because it had been replaced by Spanish साथ the सदियां, in some areas, or क्युकी it had never been spoken there, in other areas.
In southwestern France, the ancient basque-populated provinces were labourd, Lower नावारा, and Soule.
वे and other regions were संचित into a single département in 1790 under the name basses-pyrénées, a नाम which persisted until 1970.
a मानकीकृत रूप of the Basque language, called Euskara Batua, was developed by the Basque Language Academy in the late 1960s.
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by सब Basque speakers—in formal परिस्थितियों ( education, mass media, literature ), and this is its प्रमुख use today.
The role of this standard बास्क language depends on the भाषाई शैक्षणिक मॉडल of each region and each school.
in most areas of the Spanish Basque Country, the educational Model D, where all subjects are taught in Basque, except `` Spanish भाषा and literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model.
in फ़्रांस, the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a दुभाषिया ( Basque और फ्रेंच ) schooling Ikasbi meet a चौड़ी range of Basque language शैक्षणिक needs up to the छठे Form, while often struggling to surmount financial and प्रशासनिक constraints.
Apart from this standardized version, there are five main Basque dialects : Bizkaian, Gipuzkoan, और अपर Navarrese in स्पेन, और Navarrese–Lapurdian and zuberoan ( in France ).
Although they लो their names इससे the उल्लेखित ऐतिहासिक provinces, the dialect सीमाएँ are not congruent with प्रांत boundaries.
The President, निर्देशकों और Company, of the बैंको of the United States, commonly known as the First Bank of the संयुक्त States, was a सेंट्रल bank, chartered for a term of twenty years, by the संयुक्त States Congress on February 25, 1791.
Establishment of the बैंको was included in a three-part विस्तार of federal fiscal और मौद्रिक power ( along with a federal mint and excise taxes ) championed by सिकंदर Hamilton, पहला Secretary of the Treasury.
Hamilton believed a सेंट्रल bank थी necessary to stabilize and improve the स्वदेश 's credit, and to improve हैंडलिंग of the financial कारोबार of the United States government under the newly enacted Constitution.
Officially proposed to the first session of the First Congress in 1790, Hamilton 's Bank faced फैली resistance from opponents of increased federal power.
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and James Madison led the opposition, which claimed that the bank was unconstitutional, and that it benefited merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population.
the पहला Bank building is now a National Historic Landmark located in Philadelphia, पेन्सिलवेनिया within Independence National Historical Park.
James Wesley Marsters ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an American actor and musician.
Marsters पहला came to the attention of the general public playing the लोकप्रिय character Spike, a platinum-blond yobbish English vampire in the टेलीविज़न series Buffy the Vampire slayer and its spin-off series, Angel, from 1997 to 2004.
चूंकि तब, he has gone on to play other science fiction भूमिकाएँ, such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired series Smallville, the omnisexual time traveller Captain John Hart in अंग्रेजों science-fiction दिखाएँ Torchwood and terrorist Barnabas greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica.
Marsters appeared in a supporting role in the 2007 movie P.S.
I Love You and as the main antagonist, Piccolo, in the 2009 fantasy एडवेंचर film dragonball Evolution.
He appeared as a recurring character in the first season of the revival of हवाई 5-0.
In molecular biology, इंसान chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce this हार्मोन ; therefore, elevated levels measured when the patient is नहीं pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether इस production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males and महिलाओं of all ages.
, the FDA has निषिद्ध the sale of `` homeopathic '' और over the counter hCG आहार products and declared उन्हें fraudulent and illegal.
बेयोंस Giselle Knowles-Carter, known by उसके स्टेज नाम Beyoncé ( ; born September 4, 1981 ), is an American singer, songwriter, dancer, and actress.
Born and raised in Houston, Texas, she performed in singing and नाचना प्रतियोगिताओं as a चाइल्ड before forming in 1990 a group with Kelly Rowland और LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child.
Once signed to Columbia Records, the girls subsequently became एक of the संसार 's best-selling girl समूह of all time.
The group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil and Knowles suffered from depression that lasted लिये a number of years.
During the group 's hiatus, नॉलेस released her debut solo album Dangerously in Love ( 2003 ), which अर्जित her five Grammy Awards and has sold a कुल of 4.9 million copies in the US alone.
It शाखित बिलबोर्ड क्रमांक one singles `` Crazy in प्रेम, '' माना by VH1 to be the `` Greatest Song of the 00 's, '' and `` Baby लड़के. ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005, Knowles 's second solo album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the top five singles `` déjà Vu ``, `` अपूरणीय ``, और `` Beautiful Liar ``.
Her प्रदर्शन in dreamgirls ( 2006 ) earned her two Golden ग्लोब nominations.
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in that film inspired her subsequent album I am...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits `` if i Were a Boy ``, `` Single Ladies ( Put a Ring on It ) ``, `` Halo ``, and `` मीठी Dreams ``.
The album also helped Knowles earn six Grammys in 2010, तोड़कर the record लिये most Grammy Awards won by a female artist in one night.
उसके चौथी एल्बम 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards traditional R & B and became her fourth consecutive क्रमांक one album on the Billboard 200.
In January 2012, Knowles gave birth to daughter Blue आइवी Carter, उसके first child with husband Jay-Z.
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in the US and 118 million records worldwide ( as well as a further 50 million records with Destiny 's Child ), and is एक of the best-selling music artists of सब time.
The रिकॉर्डिंग Industry Association of अमेरिका ( RIAA ) recognized Knowles as the Top Certified कलाकार of the 2000s.
In 2009, Billboard named her the Top Radio गीतों Artist of the decade and ranked her the Top Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade.
Beyoncé Knowles is the सबसे nominated woman in Grammy Award history, receiving 17 awards ; other accolades include 12 एमटीवी Video Music पुरस्कार, 7 Billboard Awards including a Millennium Award, and a star on the हॉलीवुड Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child.
`` एंग्री All the Time '' is the title of a song written by Bruce robison and पहला अंकित on his 1998 album Wrapped.
it was बाद covered by Tim mcgraw with guest vocalist Faith हिल.
Released in July 2001, McGraw 's version was the second single from McGraw 's नियत This सर्कस Down album.
The song reached क्रमांक One on the Billboard hot Country Singles & Tracks ( now hot Country Songs ) charts.
Dear John is a 2010 American रोमांटिक drama - war film starring Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum.
It was released theatrically in उत्तर America on फ़रवरी 5, 2010.
the film थी directed by lasse Hallström, and it is an अनुकूलन of Nicholas Sparks 's novel of the same name.
It फ़ॉलो the life of a soldier ( चेनिंग टैटम ) after he falls in love with a यंग woman ( अमांडा Seyfried ).
वे decide to exchange letters to each other after he is तैनात to the war.
The movie was filmed in 2009 in Charleston, South कैरोलिना.
Despite receiving negative reviews, the film made a strong box office performance, knocking off Avatar after seven weekends in पहला place and grossing a कुल of $ 114,977,104 worldwide.
The फिल्मी थी released on may 25, 2010 on DVD और Blu-ray.
These हैं lists of the busiest airports in the संयुक्त States.
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport is the busiest single airport in the United States.
However, all of the New यॉर्क City metropolitan क्षेत्रफल 's airports combine to create the largest विमानक्षेत्र system in the United राज्य, second in the world in terms of passenger traffic, and first in the संसार in terms of total flight परिचालन.
Dora the Explorer is an American animated television series created by Chris Gifford, Valerie Walsh, and eric Weiner.
डोरा the Explorer became a regular series in 2000.
The show is carried on the Nickelodeon cable टेलीविज़न network, including the associated Nick Jr. channel.
It aired on CBS जबतक September 2006.
A spanish-dubbed version first aired as part of a Nick en español block on एनबीसी सार्वभौमिक -owned Telemundo through सितंबर 2006 ; since अप्रैल 2008, this version of the program रै महरूम carried on univision as भाग of the planeta U block.
सांता Fe ( ; ( Tewa : Ogha Po'oge, ) ) is the capital of the U.S. state of New मैक्सिको.
it is the fourth-largest नगर in the state and is the seat of.
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy faith” in Spanish ) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is the principal नगर of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses सब of Santa Fe County और is part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las वेगास Combined Statistical क्षेत्रफल.
The city’s full नाम when संस्थापित was La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de सैन Francisco de asís ( “The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ).
पेप्सी ( stylized in lowercase as पेप्सी, formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated नरम पेय that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo.
निर्मित and developed in 1893 और introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, तब to Pepsi in 1961.
1765 broadside
The Sons of Liberty was a group consisting of अमरीकी patriots कि originated in the pre-independence North American British colonies.
the group थी formed to protect the rights of the colonists और to take to the streets against the taxes by the अंग्रेजों government.
They are best known for undertaking the Boston Tea Party in 1773, which led to the Intolerable Acts ( an intense crackdown by the British government ), and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots.
Osaka castle
is a city in the Kansai region of Japan 's main island of Honshu, a designated city under the Local Autonomy विधि, the capital city of Osaka Prefecture और also the largest भाग of the Keihanshin metropolis, which comprises तीन major cities of Japan, Kyoto, Osaka and कोबे.
स्तिथ at the mouth of the yodo नदी on Osaka खाड़ी, Osaka is Japan 's third largest city by population after टोकियो ( special wards ) और yokohama.
Keihanshin is the दूसरी largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one of the largest महानगर areas highly ranked in the world, with nearly 19 million people, and by GDP the second largest area in जापानी and the seventh largest area in the world.
Historically the commercial center of Japan, Osaka functions as one of the command centers for the Japanese अर्थव्यवस्था.
The अनुपात between daytime and night time population is 141 %, the उच्चतम in जापानी, highlighting its status as an economic बीच.
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million, the third in the country, but in daytime the population surges to 3.7 million, second only बाद Tokyo ( combining the special wards of Tokyo, which is not a single incorporated city, for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo आलेख for more information on the definition और makeup of Tokyo ).
Osaka used to be referred to as the in feudal Edo काल क्युकी it was the centre of trading for राइस, creating the first आधुनिक futures exchange market in the world.
The Little मरमेड is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film उत्पादित by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt डिज़्नी Pictures.
Based on the डैनिश fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen, The Little Mermaid tells the story of a beautiful mermaid who dreams of becoming human.
Written, निर्देशित, and produced by Ron Clements and जॉन Musker, साथ music by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman, the फिल्मी features the voices Jodi Benson, Christopher Daniel Barnes, पैट Carroll, सैमुएल E. Wright, जेसन Marin, Kenneth Mars, Buddy Hacket, and Rene Auberjonois.
the 28th film in the Walt डिज़्नी Animated Classics श्रेणी, The Little Mermaid थी released to theaters on November 14, 1989 to largely positive reviews, garnering $ 84 million at the box office during its initial रिलीज, and $ 211 million in कुल lifetime gross.
After the कामयाबी of the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who Framed Roger Rabbit, The Little Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the art of Disney animated feature films after a string of critical or commercial failures produced by डिज़्नी that दिनाँक back to the early 1970s.
It भी marked the प्रारंभ of the era known as the Disney Renaissance.
A stage अनुकूलन of the film with a book by डग Wright and additional songs by Alan Menken और नई lyricist Glenn स्लेटर opened in Denver in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10, 2008.
alt=Close-up photo of a मेटल spoon filled with a viscous, साफ purple fluid
जामुनी drank is a कठबोली term लिये a recreational drug popular in the hip hop community in the दक्षिणी United States, originating in Houston, Texas.
Its main ingredient is नुस्खा -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine.
Cough syrup is typically mixed with संघटक such as Sprite soft drink or Mountain Dew and टुकड़े of Jolly Rancher candy.
The purplish hue of purple पिया आता from dyes in the cough syrup.
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank, including sizzurp, lean, सिरप, drank, barre, जामुनी jelly, Texas tea, and Tsikuni.
First/given, middle, और last/family/surname diagram साथ J. S. Bach as example.
J. S. Bach shared his given name with six immediate family members और many extended परिवार सदस्यों.
He shared उसके परिवार नाम with most family members.
A given name, in पश्चिमी contexts प्रायः referred to as a first नाम, is a personal name that specifies और differentiates between members of a group of individuals, विशेषकर in a family, all of whose सदस्यों usually share the same family name ( उपनाम ).
a given name is purposefully given, usually by a child 's parents at or near जनम, in contrast to an inherited one such as a family name.
A given name is sometimes legally changed through a name change.
Given names are often used in a familiar and friendly manner in informal situations.
In more औपचारिक situations the surname is प्रयुक्त instead, unless it is necessary to distinguish between people साथ the same surname.
The idiom `` on a first-name आधार '' ( or `` on first-name शर्तें '' ) alludes to the familiarity of addressing another by a given name.
the western style of having both a family नाम ( उपनाम ) and a given name is far इससे universal.
In अनेक countries it is common for ordinary people to have तभी one name ( a mononym ).
Hydrochloric acid is a साफ, colourless समाधान of hydrogen chloride ( h Cl ) in water.
It is a highly corrosive, strong mineral acid with many industrial uses.
Hydrochloric acid is found naturally in gastric acid.
Historically called muriatic acid, and आत्माओं of salt, hydrochloric acid थी produced from vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) और आम salt.
It first appeared दौरान the Renaissance, और तब it was प्रयुक्त by chemists such as glauber, प्रीस्टलि and डेवी in their scientific research.
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution, hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical उद्योग as a chemical reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for पीवीसी plastic, और MDI / TDI for polyurethane.
It has numerous smaller-scale applications, सहित household cleaning, उत्पादन of जिलेटिन और other food additives, descaling, and चमड़े processing.
परिचय 20 million टन of hydrochloric एसिड are produced annually.
Wheat ( triticum spp. ) is a cereal grain, originally from the levant region of the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands, but now cultivated worldwide.
in 2010, world production of गेहूं was 651 million tons, making it the third most-produced cereal after maize ( 844 लाख tons ) and rice ( 672 million टन ).
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; world उत्पादन in that year थी 682 million टन, after maize ( 817 million tons ), और with rice as a close third ( 679 लाख tons ).
This अनाज is grown on more land area than any other commercial food.
World trade in wheat is greater than लिये all other crops combined.
Globally, गेहूं is the leading source of सब्ज़ी protein in human खाना, having a higher protein content than soybeans or the अन्य major cereals, maize ( corn ) or rice.
in शर्तें of कुल production tonnages प्रयुक्त for food, it is currently second to rice as the main human food क्रॉप and ahead of मक्का, after allowing for maize 's more extensive use in animal feeds.
गेहूं was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the start of civilization because it was one of the first crops that could be easily cultivated on a large scale, and had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food.
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the Fertile crescent, including the Babylonian और Assyrian empires.
Wheat grain is a स्टेपल food प्रयुक्त to मेक flour for leavened, flat and steamed breads, बिस्कुट, cookies, cakes, breakfast cereal, पास्ता, noodles, couscous और for fermentation to मेक बियर, अन्य alcoholic beverages, or biofuel.
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for livestock, and its straw can be used as a निर्माण material for roofing thatch.
The whole grain can be milled to leave just the endosperm लिये white flour.
The by-products of this are bran and germ.
The पूरे grain is a concentrated सोर्स of विटामिन, minerals, and protein, जबकि the refined grain is mostly starch.
Printing
To publish is to मेक content available to the general public.
While specific use of the term may vary among countries, it is usually लागू to text, images, or other audio-visual सामग्री on any परंपरागत मीडियम, including पेपर ( newspapers, मैगज़ीन, कैटलॉग, etc. ).
The word प्रकाशन means the act of publishing, and also refers to any मुद्रित copies.
Melissa & Joey is an ABC Family original television series अभिनीत Melissa Joan Hart and जॉय Lawrence.
It first aired on एबीसी Family on August 17, 2010.
The श्रेणी फ़ॉलो local politician mel बुर्के ( Melissa Joan Hart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence ), whom Mel hires to dekh after her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke.
The series was renewed by ABC परिवार लिये a second season of fifteen episodes, which began airing on may 30, 2012 and ended on August 29, 2012.
Melissa & जॉय बाँधने as केबल TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target audiences 18–34, 18–49 and 12–34 demographics.
On August 17, 2012, ABC परिवार renewed Melissa & जॉय लिये a third season, set to premiere in spring 2013.
The Dharma wheel, often used to represent the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ
The Noble Eightfold पाथ (, ) is one of the principal teachings of the Buddha, who described it as the way leading to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening.
It is used to develop insight into the true nature of phenomena ( or reality ) और to eradicate लोभ, द्वेष, and delusion.
the Noble Eightfold Path is the चौथी of the Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the first element of the Noble Eightfold Path is, in फेरे, an understanding of the Four प्रतिष्ठित Truths.
it is भी ज्ञात as the Middle पाथ or Middle Way.
All आठ elements of the Path begin with the word `` right '', which translates the शब्द samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ).
These denote पूर्णता, एकजुटता, and coherence, and can भी suggest the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal ''.
'Samma ' is also अनूदित as `` wholesome '', `` wise '' and `` skillful ''.
In बौद्ध symbolism, the प्रतिष्ठित Eightfold Path is often represented by अर्थात् of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra ), whose आठ तीलियां represent the eight तत्व of the path.
The Grammy Award लिये Song of the साल is an honor presented at the Grammy Awards, a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally पुकारा the Gramophone Awards.
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National अकादमी of Recording Arts and Sciences of the संयुक्त States to `` honor artistic उपलब्धि, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the रिकॉर्डिंग industry, without regard to एल्बम sales or chart position. ''
Economics is the social विज्ञान that analyzes the उत्पादन, distribution, और खपत of goods और services.
The term economics comes इससे the प्राचीन Greek ( ', `` management of a household, प्रशासन '' ) इससे ( ', `` house '' ) + ( ', `` custom '' or `` law '' ), hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) ''.
Political economy was the पहले name for the subject, but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter term for `` आर्थिक विज्ञान '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as similar in form to `` mathematics ``, `` ethics '', and so forth.
A focus of the subject is how economic agents behave or interact and कैसा economies कार्य.
Consistent with this, a primary textbook distinction is between microeconomics and macroeconomics.
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic तत्व in the economy, including individual agents ( such as households and firms or as buyers and sellers ) and markets, and their interactions.
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy and मुद्दे affecting it, including unemployment, inflation, economic growth, and मौद्रिक and fiscal policy.
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative अर्थशास्त्र ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational और behavioral अर्थशास्त्र ; and between mainstream अर्थशास्त्र ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing साथ the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium नेक्सस '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ).
Economic analysis may be लागू throughout समाज, as in कारोबार, वित्त, health care, and government, but also to ऐसे विविध subjects as crime, शिक्षा, the family, law, politics, religion, सोशल institutions, युद्ध, and science.
At the turn of the 21st century, the expanding डोमेन of अर्थशास्त्र in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism.
An increasing number of economists have called for increased जोर on environmental sustainability ; this area of research is known as ecological economics.
This is a list of Schedule iv drugs अंतर्गत the Controlled substances Act for the संयुक्त States.
जरूरी निष्कर्षों for दवाएँ to be placed in this schedule:
The drug or other substance रै a low potential for abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule iii.
The drug or other substance has a currently स्वीकृत medical उपयोग in treatment in the United States.
Abuse of the ड्रग or other पदार्थ may lead to limited physical dependence or psychological dependence सापेक्ष to the drugs or other substances in schedule III.
The complete सूची of Schedule IV drugs are as फ़ॉलो.
The Administrative Controlled Substances कोड Number for each drug is included.
US county household मध्य income 2009.
Median US household income, 2001-2011
household income is a measure commonly used by the संयुक्त States government and निजी संस्थानों.
Each household is measured by the income of every resident over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability भुगतान, child support payments प्राप्त, regular rental रसीदें, as well as any निजी business, investment, or other kinds of income received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and even decreased recently.
u.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
चरम poverty in the संयुक्त States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 per दिन before government benefits, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, सहित 2.8 million children.
The निवासियों of the household do not have to be सम्बन्धित to the head of the household लिये उनके earnings to be considered भाग of the household 's income.
as households tend to share a समान economic कॉन्टेक्स्ट, the use of household income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is नहीं commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income श्रेणी, and may render direct comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or even impossible.
The बीतने rate is पारिभाषित as the rate of decrease with height for an atmospheric variable.
The variable involved is temperature जबतक specified otherwise.
The terminology arises from the word lapse in the sense of a decrease or decline.
While सबसे often applied to Earth 's atmosphere the concept can be विस्तारित to कोई gravitationally supported ball of gas.
Blue Mountain State is an अमरीकी comedy series कि premiered on Spike on January 11, 2010.
the series producers शामिल Chris Romano and Eric Falconer, and it is produced by Lionsgate Television.
The श्रेणी is about a fictional university, Blue पहाड़ State, और its football team, `` The Mountain Goats. ''
It portrays निश्चित aspects of American university life, including फ़ुटबॉल, sex, binge drinking, drugs, जंगली partying, and hazing.
In February 2012, it was reported that Blue पहाड़ State would not be renewed for a fourth season.
In कूच 2013, Ed Marinaro stated कि he is working on a ब्लू Mountain State फिल्मी.
Apple inc., formerly Apple Computer, Inc., is an American बहुराष्ट्रीय corporation headquartered in Cupertino, California that designs, develops, and बिकता consumer electronics, computer software and personal computers.
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of computers, the iPod music player, the iPhone smartphone, and the iPad tablet computer.
Its तन्त्र शामिल the OS X और आईओएस operating प्रणालियों, the itunes मीडिया browser, the Safari web browser, and the iLife and iWork creativity और production suites.
The company was संस्थापित on April 1, 1976, and incorporated as Apple Computer, Inc. on जनवरी 3, 1977.
The word `` Computer '' was removed इससे its name on जनवरी 9, 2007, reflecting its shifted focus towards consumer electronics after the introduction of the iPhone.
Apple is the world 's second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung Electronics, and the world 's third-largest mobile phone maker after Samsung and Nokia.
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the संयुक्त States in 2008, and in the world from 2008 to 2012.
However, the company रै received criticism for its contractors ' मजदूर practices, and for Apple 's own environmental and कारोबार practices.
, Apple maintains 394 retail stores in fourteen देशों as well as the online ठहराना स्टोर and iTunes Store.
It is the second-largest publicly traded निगम in the world by market capitalization, with an estimated value of US $ 414 billion as of January 2013.
, the कम्पनी था 72,800 permanent full-time employees and 3,300 temporary full-time employees worldwide.
इसके worldwide annual revenue in 2012 totalled $ 156 billion.
Section 8 housing in the South Bronx
खण्ड 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ), प्रायः simply known as Section 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the payment of rental आवास सहायता to निजी landlords on behalf of approximately 3.1 लाख low-income households.
It operates through several programs, the largest of जिससे, the Housing चुनाव Voucher program, pays a विशाल portion of the rents and utilities of about 2.1 लाख households.
The US Department of Housing and Urban विकास manages the Section 8 कार्यक्रम.
The Housing Choice Voucher कार्यक्रम provides `` tenant-based '' rental सहायता, so a tenant can मूव from one ईकाई of at least minimum housing quality to another.
It also allows individuals to लागू उनके monthly वाउचर towards the खरीदें of a घर, with over $ 17 billion going towards such purchases each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ).
The maximum allowed voucher is $ 2200 a month.
Section 8 also authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs, under which the मालिक reserves कुछ or all of the units in a building लिये low-income tenants, in return for a Federal government गारंटी to make up the difference between the किरायेदार 's contribution और the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the सरकारी.
A tenant who leaves a subsidized project होगा lose access to the project-based subsidy.
The United States Department of आवास और Urban Development और United States Department of दिग्गजों Affairs have a special खण्ड 8 program called VASH ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing ), or HUD-VASH, which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans.
Restaurants categorized by प्रकार and information about ये different types.
U.S. Federal Reserve notes in the mid-1990s
The history of the United States dollar covers more than 200 years.
